---

title: Dare campaign platform
abstract: Disclosed are platforms, systems, media, and methods comprising: a software module configured to allow generation of a dare campaign, a dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator, a target, a challenge, funds raised, and a beneficiary; and a software module configured to generate a dare campaign community, a dare campaign community organized around a primary dare campaign and characterized by one or more of: a primary dare campaign having a challenge defined by a community member other than the creator or the target; one or more child dare campaigns, wherein a child dare campaign has parameters defaulted to those of the primary dare campaign, wherein the parameters are customizable by the creator of the child dare campaign; and one or more clone dare campaigns, wherein a clone dare campaign has parameters linked to the primary dare campaign, wherein the linked parameters include at least the challenge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725653&OS=08725653&RS=08725653
owner: Darelicious Inc.
number: 08725653
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130726
---
Fund raising is the process of soliciting and gathering voluntary contributions of money or other resources by requesting donations from individuals businesses or organizations. In some cases fund raising refers to efforts to gather money for non profit organizations. In other cases it is used to refer to the identification and solicitation of investors or other sources of capital for profit enterprises. Traditionally fundraising consisted mostly of asking for donations on the street or door to door. More recently new forms of fundraising such as online fundraising have emerged.

One of the most effective forms of online fund raising is crowd funding. Crowd funding is the collective effort of individuals who network and pool their money usually via the web to support efforts initiated by other people or organizations. Existing online fund raising however fails to adequately engage users or provide any entertainment value. Current methods also fail to provide convenient ways for celebrities and other influential individuals to get involved and use their appeal to raise funds. Importantly no traditional or online fund raising techniques allow creation of fund raising campaign communities wherein a user can participate by challenging themselves along with others with whom they are aligned.

Advantages of the platforms systems media and methods described herein include interconnected dare campaign communities organized around a primary campaign. Further advantages include by way of non limiting examples dare campaigns having a challenge defined by the community child dare campaigns offering the ability for a performer of a dare to challenge others to create their own dare and clone dare campaigns offering the ability for more than one user to create the same dare.

In one aspect disclosed herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create an application comprising a software module configured to allow the generation of a dare campaign a dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator a target a challenge a goal funds raised and a beneficiary the challenge activated when the goal is reached and a software module configured to generate a dare campaign community a dare campaign community organized around a primary dare campaign and characterized by 1 2 or all of a primary dare campaign having a challenge defined by a community member other than the creator or the target one or more child dare campaigns wherein a child dare campaign has parameters defaulted to those of the primary dare campaign wherein the parameters are customizable by the creator of the child dare campaign and one or more clone dare campaigns wherein a clone dare campaign has parameters linked to the primary dare campaign wherein the linked parameters include at least the challenge. In some embodiments a dare campaign further comprises parameters comprising a length of time to reach the goal or a length of time to complete the challenge. In some embodiments the software module configured to allow the generation of a dare campaign provides a display indicating the current phase of the dare campaign. In further embodiments the current phase is selected from pledging voting and complete. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow submission of media the media documenting performance of the challenge by the target. In further embodiments the media comprises text a photo an audio file or a video. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow voting on the media the funds raised provided to the beneficiary when the voting reaches a threshold. In further embodiments the threshold is determined by a number of votes or a percentage of votes indicating affirmative performance of the challenge. In further embodiments a dare campaign further comprises a length of time to reach the voting threshold. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow pledging a pledge contributing funds raised toward the goal. In some embodiments the target is a person. In further embodiments the person is an influencer or celebrity. In some embodiments the target is a group or organization. In some embodiments the beneficiary is the target. In some embodiments the beneficiary is a charity. In some embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a hierarchical user interface wherein the primary dare campaign is displayed above related child and clone dare campaigns. In some embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign with an influencer or celebrity target wherein the dare campaign community comprises plurality of child dare campaigns with a creator that is a fan of the influencer or celebrity. In some embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign with an influencer or celebrity target wherein the dare campaign community comprises plurality of clone dare campaigns with a creator that is a fan of the influencer or celebrity. In some embodiments a child dare campaign or a clone dare campaign is created with a single user interaction.

In another aspect disclosed herein are computer implemented systems comprising a digital processing device comprising an operating system configured to perform executable instructions and a memory device and a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create an application comprising a software module configured to allow generation of a dare campaign a dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator a target a challenge a goal funds raised and a beneficiary the challenge activated when the goal is reached and a software module configured to generate a dare campaign community a dare campaign community organized around a primary dare campaign and characterized by 1 2 or all of a primary dare campaign having a challenge defined by a community member other than the creator or the target one or more child dare campaigns wherein a child dare campaign has parameters defaulted to those of the primary dare campaign wherein the parameters are customizable by the creator of the child dare campaign and one or more clone dare campaigns wherein a clone dare campaign has parameters linked to the primary dare campaign wherein the linked parameters include at least the challenge. In some embodiments a dare campaign further comprises parameters comprising a length of time to reach the goal or a length of time to complete the challenge. In some embodiments the software module configured to allow generation of a dare campaign provides a display indicating the current phase of the dare campaign. In further embodiments the current phase is selected from pledging voting and complete. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow submission of media the media documenting performance of the challenge by the target. In further embodiments the media comprises text a photo an audio file or a video. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow voting on the media the funds raised provided to the beneficiary when the voting reaches a threshold. In further embodiments the threshold is determined by a number of votes or a percentage of votes indicating affirmative performance of the challenge. In further embodiments a dare campaign further comprises a length of time to reach the voting threshold. In some embodiments the application further comprises a software module configured to allow pledging a pledge contributing funds raised toward the goal. In some embodiments the target is a person. In further embodiments the person is an influencer or celebrity. In some embodiments the target is a group or organization. In some embodiments the beneficiary is the target. In some embodiments the beneficiary is a charity. In some embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a hierarchical user interface wherein the primary dare campaign is displayed above related child and clone dare campaigns. In some embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign with an influencer or celebrity target wherein the dare campaign community comprises plurality of child dare campaigns with a creator that is a fan of the influencer or celebrity. In some embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign with an influencer or celebrity target wherein the dare campaign community comprises plurality of clone dare campaigns with a creator that is a fan of the influencer or celebrity. In some embodiments a child dare campaign or a clone dare campaign is created with a single user interaction.

In another aspect disclosed herein are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a dare campaign community the community comprising a plurality of dare campaigns each dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator a target a challenge a goal funds raised and a beneficiary the challenge activated when the goal is reached the community organized around a primary dare campaign and characterized by 1 2 or all of a primary dare campaign having a challenge defined by a community member other than the creator or the target one or more child dare campaigns wherein a child dare campaign has parameters defaulted to those of the primary dare campaign wherein the parameters are customizable by the creator of the child dare campaign and one or more clone dare campaigns wherein a clone dare campaign has parameters linked to the primary dare campaign wherein the linked parameters include at least the challenge. In some embodiments each dare campaign further comprises parameters comprising a length of time to reach the goal or a length of time to complete the challenge. In some embodiments each dare campaign comprises an interface configured to allow submission of media the media documenting performance of the challenge by the target. In some embodiments the media comprises text a photo an audio file or a video. In some embodiments each dare campaign comprises an interface configured to allow voting on the media the funds raised provided to the beneficiary when the voting reaches a threshold. In further embodiments wherein the threshold is determined by a number of votes or a percentage of votes indicating affirmative performance of the challenge. In some embodiments each dare campaign comprises an interface configured to allow pledging a pledge contributing funds raised toward the goal. In some embodiments the dare campaign community comprises a hierarchical user interface wherein the primary dare campaign is displayed above related child and clone dare campaigns. In some embodiments the dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign with an influencer or celebrity target wherein the dare campaign community comprises plurality of child dare campaigns with a creator that is a fan of the influencer or celebrity. In some embodiments the dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign with an influencer or celebrity target wherein the dare campaign community comprises plurality of clone dare campaigns with a creator that is a fan of the influencer or celebrity. In some embodiments the primary dare campaign has a challenge selected by the target or selected by voting. In some embodiments the dare campaign provides a display indicating the current phase of the dare campaign. In further embodiments the current phase is selected from pledging voting and complete. In some embodiments a child dare campaign or a clone dare campaign is created with a single user interaction.

In another aspect disclosed herein are computer implemented methods of fund raising comprising associating by a computer a primary dare campaign with one or more clone dare campaigns to form a dare campaign community each dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator a target a challenge a fund raising goal funds raised and a beneficiary wherein each clone dare campaign shares the beneficiary of the primary dare campaign presenting by the computer a user interface wherein the interface presents the dare campaigns organized to represent the association between the primary dare campaign and the one or more clone dare campaigns and collecting by the computer pledges from users in one or more of the dare campaigns the pledges comprising funds raised wherein the challenge is activated when the funds raised reach the fund raising goal wherein at least a portion of the funds raised are distributed to the beneficiary upon successful completion of the activated challenge by the target. In some embodiments the target is a celebrity or influential individual or group. In some embodiments the beneficiary is a charitable organization. In some embodiments successful completion of the activated challenge is documented by upload of media. In further embodiments the media comprises text a photo an audio file or a video. In some embodiments the adequacy of the media as documentation of successful completion of the activated challenge is determined by user voting.

Described herein in certain embodiments are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a computer program including instructions executable by a processor to create an application comprising a software module configured to allow generation of a dare campaign a dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator a target a challenge a goal funds raised and a beneficiary the challenge activated when the goal is reached and a software module configured to generate a dare campaign community a dare campaign community organized around a primary dare campaign and characterized by one or more of a primary dare campaign having a challenge defined by a community member other than the creator or the target one or more child dare campaigns wherein a child dare campaign has parameters defaulted to those of the primary dare campaign wherein the parameters are customizable by the creator of the child dare campaign and one or more clone dare campaigns wherein a clone dare campaign has parameters linked to the primary dare campaign wherein the linked parameters include at least the challenge.

Also described herein in certain embodiments are computer implemented systems comprising a digital processing device comprising an operating system configured to perform executable instructions and a memory device and a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to create an application comprising a software module configured to allow generation of a dare campaign a dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator a target a challenge a goal funds raised and a beneficiary the challenge activated when the goal is reached and a software module configured to generate a dare campaign community a dare campaign community organized around a primary dare campaign and characterized by one or more of a primary dare campaign having a challenge defined by a community member other than the creator or the target one or more child dare campaigns wherein a child dare campaign has parameters defaulted to those of the primary dare campaign wherein the parameters are customizable by the creator of the child dare campaign and one or more clone dare campaigns wherein a clone dare campaign has parameters linked to the primary dare campaign wherein the linked parameters include at least the challenge.

Also described herein in certain embodiments are non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a dare campaign community the community comprising a plurality of dare campaigns each dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator a target a challenge a goal funds raised and a beneficiary the challenge activated when the goal is reached the community organized around a primary dare campaign and characterized by one or more of a primary dare campaign having a challenge defined by a community member other than the creator or the target one or more child dare campaigns wherein a child dare campaign has parameters defaulted to those of the primary dare campaign wherein the parameters are customizable by the creator of the child dare campaign and one or more clone dare campaigns wherein a clone dare campaign has parameters linked to the primary dare campaign wherein the linked parameters include at least the challenge.

Also described herein in certain embodiments are computer implemented methods of fund raising comprising associating by a computer a primary dare campaign with one or more clone dare campaigns to form a dare campaign community each dare campaign having parameters comprising a creator a target a challenge a fund raising goal funds raised and a beneficiary wherein each clone dare campaign shares the beneficiary of the primary dare campaign presenting by the computer a user interface wherein the interface presents the dare campaigns organized to represent the association between the primary dare campaign and the one or more clone dare campaigns and collecting by the computer pledges from users in one or more of the dare campaigns the pledges comprising funds raised wherein the challenge is activated when the funds raised reach the fund raising goal wherein at least a portion of the funds raised are distributed to the beneficiary upon successful completion of the activated challenge by the target.

Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to or herein is intended to encompass and or unless otherwise stated.

As used herein the term dare means a challenge intended for performance by another as part of a fund raising campaign.

As used herein the term dare campaign means a fund raising campaign including a challenge that must be performed by a target to make funds raised available to one or more beneficiaries.

As used herein the term dare campaign community means a primary dare campaign and one or more secondary dare campaigns linked by a relationship and presented in a dare campaign community user interface that reflects these relationships.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include an application creating a dare campaign or use of the same. In further embodiments a dare campaign is a fund raising campaign. A dare campaign suitably has many parameters which are configured by a creator or alternatively by the community as described herein .

In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a name. In some cases the name suitably reflects an associated challenge. In other cases the name suitably reflects a target or a beneficiary. In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a descriptive video. In further embodiments the descriptive video is provided by the creator to communicate details of a challenge a target a beneficiary and other details of the dare campaign.

In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a challenge. In further embodiments the challenge is one or more tasks that must be performed by an individual group or organization to complete the dare. In some embodiments a dare campaign includes one challenge configured by the creator of the campaign. In other embodiments a dare campaign includes a plurality of challenges configured by the creator of the campaign. In various embodiments a dare campaign suitably includes 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 or more challenges configured by the creator of the campaign. In further embodiments the dare campaign with multiple challenges also includes a configured means to select one or more challenges from among the plurality of challenges.

By way of example in some embodiments other users can comment and vote to select a challenge. In further embodiments once the voting period is closed the challenge with the highest number of votes is selected. In some embodiments a creator of a dare campaign optionally allows any user to vote on a dare for the campaign. In other embodiments a creator of a dare campaign optionally allows a limited group of users to vote on a dare for the campaign. In further embodiments votes are allowed from a fan base a social circle a defined community or the like.

By way of further example in some embodiments a challenge is selected by the amount of funds raised e.g. user pledges . In further embodiments once the pledging period is closed the challenge with the highest amount of funds raised is selected. In such embodiments the challenge is selected to maximize donations.

In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a target. In further embodiments the target is the party that must perform the challenge to complete the dare. Many types of targets are suitable. In various embodiments suitable targets include by way of non limiting examples a specific individual a plurality of individuals a group and an organization. In further embodiments an individual is a celebrity or influential individual e.g. an influencer trendsetter role model public figure athlete entertainer artist etc. . In some embodiments the target is any users willing to take on the dare. In other embodiments the nature of the challenge associated with a dare campaign is such that it can only be completed by a specific target.

In some embodiments a dare campaign includes an amount of funds raised. In further embodiments funds are raised by user pledges. In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a pre determined amount of time allowed for users to pledge funds. In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a goal. In further embodiments the goal is the amount of funds raised required to activate the challenge. In other embodiments a goal is optional and the challenge is active without regard to an amount of funds raised. In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a beneficiary. In further embodiments the beneficiary receives all or a portion of the funds raised upon submission of adequate proof that a challenge has been completed. Many types of beneficiaries are suitable. In various embodiments suitable beneficiaries include by way of non limiting examples the creator the target or other user successfully performing the challenge associated with the dare campaign a third party individual and an organization such as a for profit organization a not for profit organization or a charity. In some embodiments a beneficiary comprises one individual group or organization. In other embodiments a beneficiary comprises a plurality of individuals groups organizations or combinations thereof. In cases where a beneficiary comprises a plurality of individuals groups and or organizations the dare campaign is optionally configured to distribute funds raised based on any suitable allocation scheme.

In some embodiments a dare campaign includes media uploaded by a target that demonstrates completion of the challenge. In further embodiments a dare campaign includes a pre determined amount of time allowed for upload of media demonstrating completion of the challenge. In further embodiments the community of users votes on whether the media adequately demonstrates completion of the challenge.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include an application creating a dare campaign platform or use of the same. In various embodiments a dare campaign platform offers software modules databases and user interfaces to facilitate a wide range user activities including by way of non limiting examples creating a dare campaign pledging money towards a dare campaign taking on a dare voting on a dare campaign and suggesting a celebrity dare. In some embodiments a dare campaign platform presents a dare campaign summary display for each dare campaign created and presents a catalog of summaries allowing a user to browser created campaigns. In further embodiments a dare campaign platform presents a dare campaign detail display for each dare campaign created.

In some embodiments a dare campaign platform allows a user to create a dare campaign. For example a creating user specifies the actual dare e.g. the challenge the creator uploads an image representing the dare specifies a goal amount the creating user is trying to raise and specifies whether the money benefits a charity or if the funds raised benefit the creator of the dare and or the person taking on the dare. In some embodiments the creator also has the option of assigning rewards towards different levels of pledging the dare creator optionally includes a video telling everyone why their dare is so daring or any other background info. In some embodiments the creator also includes text in a word document providing background information. In some embodiments once the dare campaign is live users comment on the dare and interact with anyone involved with the dare campaign through a comments section.

In some embodiments a dare campaign platform allows a user to pledge money towards a dare campaign. For example a user optionally pledges money towards the goal amount specified in a particular dare campaign. In some embodiments the platform initially only authorizes the charge without conducting the transaction. In further embodiments if the dare is successfully completed then the platform completes the transaction and charges the pledging user. In still further embodiments if the dare isn t successfully completed the pledging user isn t charged at all.

In some embodiments a dare campaign platform allows a user to take on a dare. For example a user optionally takes on a dare by uploading media as proof of completion of the particular challenge associated with the dare.

In some embodiments a dare campaign platform allows a user to vote on a dare campaign. For example once a user decides to take on a dare campaign and the user uploads video proof they can do this whether the goal was met or not then any user can vote on whether the video really does prove completion of the challenge. In some embodiments a simple majority of votes is enough. In further embodiments if there is more than one video uploaded the video with highest positive percentage of votes is used to evaluate voting.

In some embodiments a dare campaign platform allows a user to suggest a dare for another user. In some embodiments a dare campaign platform allows a user to suggest a celebrity dare. For example in some embodiments a user optionally lists their favorite celebrity dares. In further embodiments other users optionally vote on dares and even comment on them. In still further embodiments the celebrity dare selections will be displayed in order of the most votes to the least.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a pop up provides user guidelines for a dare campaign platform. In this embodiment the guidelines cover creating dare campaigns promoting dare campaign and participating in dare campaigns.

Referring to in particular embodiments a dare campaign summary display provides information describing the dare campaign including a name e.g. title a text description and a descriptive image. In these embodiments the dare campaign summary display further provides the creator name and profile image the target any user in this case an icon indicating that the beneficiary is a charitable organization a number of backers a total funds raised e.g. amount pledged and a goal amount for the funds raised. Because the particular dare campaigns summarized in the dare campaign summary displays have not been successfully completed the summaries are marked Unsuccessful. 

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign summary display provides information describing the dare campaign including a name e.g. title a text description and a descriptive image. In this embodiment the dare campaign summary display further provides the creator name and profile image the target any user in this case an icon indicating that the beneficiary is a charitable organization a number of backers a total funds raised e.g. amount pledged and a goal amount for the funds raised. Because the particular dare campaign summarized in the dare campaign summary display is in the pledging phase the dare campaign summary display includes a Pledge Now button providing uses access to a pledging interface. See e.g. .

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign detail display offers users information on many aspects of a particular dare campaign. In this embodiment the dare campaign detail display includes navigational elements allowing a user to access information on updates backers comments and media submissions. The dare campaign detail display in this embodiment presents descriptive information including a name and text description and a descriptive video. The dare campaign detail display in this embodiment also presents a visual indicator of the current phase of the dare campaign. The phases include a pledging phase wherein users contribute funds toward a goal a voting phase wherein a challenge has become active a user has uploaded media demonstrating their successful completion of the challenge and other uses optionally vote on the persuasiveness of the media and a completed phase.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a pop up provides user guidelines for dare campaign creation. In this embodiment the guidelines cover daring a friend daring oneself daring a group and daring a celebrity.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign creation interface provides features to allow a user to input basic dare campaign information including a dare image a dare name a text description e.g. the particular challenge a target a pledge duration i.e. the time available for pledging a voting duration i.e. the time available for voting on submitted media a beneficiary and a goal amount for the funds raised. In this embodiment the a dare campaign creation interface generates a dare campaign summary e.g. a widget etc. that displays the name image creator target number of backers total amount pledged goal and days left to pledge. Further in this embodiment the dare campaign summary includes a visual indicator of the current phase of the dare campaign that illustrates the campaign s progress through the pledging voting and completion phases. Still further in this embodiment the dare campaign summary includes interface elements allowing a user to comment on the dare campaign and make a pledge.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign creation interface provides important information for a dare campaign creator to review prior to publishing their dare campaign on the platform. In this embodiment the important information includes information specific to charitable dare campaigns and for profit dare campaigns.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a pop up for sharing a dare campaign via social networking includes elements allowing a user to share a dare campaign via Facebook and or Twitter.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign management interface provides features to allow a user to edit basic dare information including the descriptive image the title the text description e.g. the particular challenge the target the goal amount for the funds raised the time available for pledging the time available for voting on submitted media and the beneficiary.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign management interface provides features to allow a user to update a dare campaign by editing the name e.g. title or typing text updates to be associated with the dare campaign.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a pop up for suggesting a celebrity dare allows a user to identify a particular celebrity or influencer and describe a suggested challenge to be associated with a dare campaign with the identified celebrity or influencer as the target.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include media or use of the same. In further embodiments media is utilized for example to describe a dare campaign encourage participation and the like. In still further embodiments media is utilized to describe a challenge a celebrity target a charitable beneficiary and the like. In some embodiments media is utilized for example to prove demonstrate or document completion of a challenge associated with a dare campaign. In some embodiments media is utilized for example to comment on a dare campaign or provide an update on a dare campaign. In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a software module configured to allow submission of media or use of the same.

Many types of media are suitable. In some embodiments suitable media include text documents audio images e.g. photographs illustrations etc. videos multimedia e.g. interactive elements etc. or combinations of the same.

Many text formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Rich Text Format RTF TXT ASCII UTF 8 and HTML formatted text. Many document formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Office Word Microsoft Office PowerPoint Microsoft Office Excel DocBook HTML OpenDocument PalmDoc Portable Document Format PDF Rich Text Format RTF and WordPerfect.

Many audio formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples MP3 WAV AIFF AU Apple Lossless MPEG 4 Windows Media Vorbis AAC and Real Audio .

Many raster image formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG JPEG 2000 Exchangeable image file format EXIF Tagged Image File Format TIFF RAW Portable Network Graphics PNG Graphics Interchange Format GIF Windows bitmap BMP portable pixmap PPM portable graymap PGM portable bitmap file format PBM wireless bitmap WBMP and WebP. In some embodiments images are uncompressed e.g. RAW format . In other embodiments images are compressed. Both lossy and lossless image CODECs are suitable. Many vector image formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples CGM and SWF. Both two dimensional and three dimensional vector images are suitable.

Many video formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Windows Media Video WMV Windows Media Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG Audio Video Interleave AVI Apple QuickTime RealMedia Flash Video Motion JPEG M JPEG WebM and Advanced Video Coding High Definition AVCHD . In some embodiments video is uncompressed e.g. RAW format . In other embodiments video is compressed. Both lossy and lossless video CODECs are suitable including by way of non limiting examples DivX Cineform Cinepak Dirac DV FFV1 H.263 H.264 H.264 lossless JPEG 2000 MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 On2 Technologies VP5 VP6 VP7 and VP8 RealVideo Snow lossless Sorenson Video Theora and Windows Media Video WMV .

In some embodiments image and or video media are standard definition. In other embodiments image and or video media are high definition. In further embodiments a high definition image or video frame includes at least about 1280 about 720 pixels or at least about 1920 about 1080 pixels.

Many multimedia formats are suitable including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java HTML 5 XHTML 5 and Unity .

In some embodiments media include metadata. In further embodiments the metadata describes the location date time resolution and or creator of the media. In still further embodiments metadata describes the device settings e.g. camera smartphone handheld computing device etc. used to create the media.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign detail display provides information on a dare campaign targeted to any user and includes a video uploaded to describe the challenge associated with the dare campaign. This particular embodiment also includes a link to submissions section of the dare campaign detail display which provides user access to media uploaded to demonstrate performance of the challenge.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign creation interface provides features to allow a dare campaign creator to submit a video describing one or more aspects of the dare campaign. In this embodiment the dare campaign creation interface is configured to allow upload of an archived media file or creation of a media file in real time via a web cam associated with a user s computer.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign management interface provides features to allow a dare campaign creator to submit a video describing one or more aspects of the dare campaign. In this embodiment the dare campaign management interface is configured to allow upload of an archived media file or creation of a media file in real time via a web cam associated with a user s computer.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include voting or use of the same. In further embodiments voting is utilized for example to determine whether an uploaded media file adequately demonstrates proves or documents successful completion of a challenge associated with a dare campaign. In some embodiments if and when user voting reaches a particular threshold the challenge is considered successfully completed and the funds raised are provided to the beneficiary as configured by the creator. In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a pre determined length of time to reach the voting threshold which is configured by the creator of the dare campaign. In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a software module configured to allow user voting on media or use of the same.

Many methods of voting are suitable. In some embodiments users suitably vote by selecting a Boolean value such as Yes or No Affirmative or Negative or Complete or Incomplete or the like. In other embodiments users suitably vote by scoring media in a numeric or non numeric scale such as 1 10 1 100 A F 1 star 5 stars or the like. In further embodiments a vote higher on a scale indicates successful performance of the challenge associated with a dare campaign. In a particular embodiment users suitably vote by scoring media on a Likert scale e.g. a 5 step scale from Strongly Agree to Strongly Disagree that the media demonstrates successful performance of the challenge .

Many methods of determining whether voting has met a threshold are suitable. In various embodiments a threshold is suitably determined for example by reaching a pre determined number of votes total reaching a pre determined number of votes indicating affirmative performance of the challenge reaching a pre determined percentage of votes indicating affirmative performance of the challenge and the like.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign detail display provides information on a dare campaign targeted to any user and includes a visual indicator that the dare campaign is in the voting phase wherein media has been uploaded and user s optionally vote on whether the media adequately demonstrates performance of the challenge associated with the dare campaign. In this embodiment the dare campaign detail display also provides a Vote Now button that allows users to access the uploaded media and cast their vote.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include pledging or use of the same. In further embodiments pledging is utilized to raise funds associated with a dare campaign which are distributed to one or more beneficiaries when one or more pre determined conditions are satisfied. In some embodiments funds raised are distributed to the one or more beneficiaries if and when voting concludes and determines that uploaded media adequately demonstrates successful completion of a challenge associated with a dare campaign. In further embodiments funds raised are distributed to the one or more beneficiaries if and when voting determines successful completion of the challenge and a goal amount is pledged. In a particular embodiment user pledges meeting or exceeding a goal amount is a pre requisite to activation of a challenge associated with a dare campaign. In some embodiments a dare campaign includes a pre determined length of time to satisfy the conditions for distributions of funds raised which is configured by the creator of the dare campaign. In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a software module configured to allow pledging or use of the same.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign summary display provides the number of users pledging e.g. backers etc. a total amount pledged a goal amount for the funds raised and a time left for users to make a pledge. In this embodiment the dare campaign summary display also includes a visual indicator that the dare campaign is in the pledging phase and a button allowing users to access an interface for making a pledge.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign detail display provides the number of users pledging e.g. backers etc. a total amount pledged a goal amount for the funds raised and a time left for users to make a pledge. In this embodiment the dare campaign detail display also includes a visual indicator that the dare campaign has progressed past the pledging phase and is in the voting phase.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare pledging interface allows a user to pledge funds in a dare campaign. In this embodiment the dare pledging interface includes features allowing a user to enter a pledge amount selects an available reward associated with the dare or optionally no reward and optionally make the pledge anonymous. Further in this embodiment if the user does not opt to make the pledge anonymous the pledge will be linked to the user s profile.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include rewards or use of the same. In further embodiments rewards are utilized to encourage pledges of funds to a dare campaign. In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a software module configured to allow a creator of a dare campaign to offer rewards to pledging users or use of the same.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign creation interface offers features for a dare campaign creator to optionally configure rewards by pledge amount. In this embodiment a dare campaign creation interface allows configuration of one or more rewards. For each reward the dare campaign creator indicates a pledge amount qualifying for the reward a description of the reward and an estimated delivery date for the reward. Further in this embodiment the dare campaign creator optionally limits the availability of the reward.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign creation interface offers features for a dare campaign creator to optionally configure rewards by pledge rank. In this embodiment a dare campaign creation interface allows configuration of one or more rewards. For each reward the dare campaign creator indicates a pledge rank qualifying for the reward a description of the reward and an estimated delivery date for the reward.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare pledging interface allows a user to pledge funds in a dare campaign. In this embodiment the dare campaign creator has configured two rewards and the dare pledging interface allows a qualifying user to select from either reward or no reward.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign management interface offers features allowing a care campaign creator to edit dare reward information and or add new rewards to a dare campaign.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include dare campaign communities or use of the same. In further embodiments a dare campaign community includes a primary dare campaign. In still further embodiments a dare campaign community includes a plurality of secondary dare campaigns. In some cases the secondary dare campaigns are associated with a primary dare campaign based on one or more challenges suggested by community members. In other cases the secondary dare campaigns are associated with a primary dare campaign based on a parent child relationship. In yet other cases the secondary dare campaigns are associated with a primary dare campaign based on a parent clone relationship.

Any reasonable number of secondary dare campaigns is suitable. In various embodiments dare campaign community includes a primary dare campaign and for example about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more secondary dare campaigns. In further various embodiments dare campaign community includes a primary dare campaign and for example about 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 or more secondary dare campaigns. In further various embodiments dare campaign community includes a primary dare campaign and for example about 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 or more secondary dare campaigns. In further various embodiments dare campaign community includes a primary dare campaign and for example about 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 9000 10000 or more secondary dare campaigns. In further various embodiments dare campaign community includes a primary dare campaign and for example about 10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000 70000 80000 90000 100000 or more secondary dare campaigns.

In some embodiments a dare campaign community is organized around a primary dare campaign. In further embodiments the organization is visual with the primary dare campaign presented top most or centrally. In further embodiments the organization is hierarchical with the primary dare campaign presented highest in the hierarchy. In further embodiments the organization is logical with the primary dare campaign presented highest in the hierarchy. See e.g. .

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include child dare campaigns or use of the same. In further embodiments a child dare campaign has a parent child relationship with a primary dare campaign. For example in some embodiments a parent child relationship exists where one object e.g. an individual a celebrity an organization a brand a person of influence etc. takes on a dare and subsequently tells everyone to take on their own different dare. In further embodiments the subsequently created dare campaigns are interconnected and exist within a community displayed for example on the same web page. In still further embodiments all the dare campaign summaries e.g. widgets for this one community are displayed for example in the same section of a web site.

In some embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign with an influencer or celebrity target wherein the dare campaign community comprises plurality of child dare campaigns with a creator that is a fan of the influencer or celebrity. In further embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a hierarchical user interface wherein the primary dare campaign is displayed centrally or above related child dare campaigns. In some embodiments a child dare campaign has parameters defaulted to those of the primary dare campaign. In further embodiments the parameters are customizable by the creator of the child dare campaign. In still further embodiments a child dare campaign is created with a single user interaction.

Referring to in a particular embodiment a dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign presented at the top of a dare campaign community interface. In this embodiment the dare campaign community further comprises plurality of secondary dare campaigns presented below the primary campaign in the dare campaign community interface. In this case each of the secondary dare campaigns is associated with the primary dare campaign by a parent child relationship described herein.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a clone dare campaigns or use of the same. In some embodiments a creator of a dare optionally configures a dare to be cloneable at the time of creation or thereafter via a dare campaign management interface. In other embodiments a creator of a dare optionally configures a dare to be non cloneable at the time of creation or thereafter via a dare campaign management interface.

In some embodiments a clone dare campaign has a parent clone relationship with a primary dare campaign. By way of example in the case of an object what they re doing here is simply having everyone take on the same exact dare. By way of example in some embodiments any user can clone a dare. For example a user creates a dare challenging his wife to cut off her hair for Locks of Love. In some cases any other user optionally interacts with a Clone button to create their own dare that is the same exact dare. In further embodiments the subsequently created dare campaigns are interconnected and exist within a community displayed for example on the same web page. In still further embodiments all the dare campaign summaries e.g. widgets for this one community are displayed for example in the same section of a web site.

In some embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a primary dare campaign with an influencer or celebrity target wherein the dare campaign community comprises plurality of clone dare campaigns with a creator that is a fan of the influencer or celebrity. In further embodiments a dare campaign community comprises a hierarchical user interface wherein the primary dare campaign is displayed centrally and or above related child dare campaigns. In some embodiments a clone dare campaign has parameters linked to the primary dare campaign. In a particular embodiment the linked parameters include at least the challenge. In a particular embodiment the linked parameters include at least the beneficiary. In another embodiment the linked parameters include at least the title and short description. In some embodiments the linked parameters include one or more of the title the text description the challenge and the beneficiary. For example in some embodiments in so far as what parameters of a clone that are optionally customized the parameters that stay the same are the title and if it s a charitable dare the actual charity that is benefited by the funds. By way of further example all other e.g. non linked parameters are optionally customizable e.g. editable . In some embodiments a child dare campaign or a clone dare campaign is created with a single user interaction.

In some embodiments any dare campaign is optionally cloned. In further embodiments a dare campaign summary or detail interface includes a Clone button allowing a user to access dare campaign cloning functionality. In such embodiments a dare campaign summary or detail interface further includes a Clones tab allowing a user to review all the clones associated with the dare campaign. In some embodiments a dare campaign community includes interface elements indicating the total number of clones associated with the community. In some embodiments a dare campaign community includes interface elements indicating the total funds raised across the dare campaigns associated with the community.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include challenges defined by community members or use of the same. For example in a some embodiments a celebrity brand or person of influence e.g. the object creates a dare campaign in a similar manner to the create a dare functionality described herein but in it they specify that they re looking for other users to suggest a dare e.g. the specific challenge to be performed for the object to either take on or in the event of a brand looking for a dare to sponsor. In further embodiments the creator optionally sets a limitation on the amount of time available for users to submit dares or to vote on submitted dares.

In embodiments where a dare campaign includes a challenge defined by community members the dare campaign summary or detail interface indicates a suggestion phase in additional to other potential phases such as pledging voting complete or published and the like. In such embodiments the dare campaign summary or detail interface includes an Add Suggestion button allowing an authorized user to access the suggest a dare functionality described herein. In further embodiments users optionally comment on suggested dares.

In some embodiments a creator of a dare campaign optionally allows any user to suggest a challenge for the campaign. In other embodiments a creator of a dare campaign optionally allows a limited group of users to suggest a challenge for the campaign. In further embodiments suggestions are allowed from a fan base a social circle a defined community or the like.

In some embodiments users submit challenges other users can comment and vote and the object can submit updates text and video during the campaign to comment on the suggestions. In various embodiments once the period to suggest a challenge is closed final selection of the challenge proceeds by one of several mechanisms. For example in some embodiments the object picks a suggested challenge based on a wide array of parameters. In further embodiments the object optionally just picks their favorite. In still further embodiments the object optionally picks the challenge receiving the highest number of votes. In still further embodiments the object optionally picks from the top challenges as determined by number of votes e.g. selects from among the top 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 or more challenges .

In some embodiments the object optionally picks a plurality of challenges suggested. In further embodiments the object optionally selects 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more of the challenges suggested. In various embodiments once the period to suggest a challenge is closed final selection of the challenge from the plurality of challenges proceeds by one of several mechanisms. By way of example in some embodiments the selected challenges are subjected to a second round of voting. By way of further example in some embodiments a final challenge is determined by the amount of funds raised e.g. user pledges . In such embodiments the final challenge is selected to maximize donations.

In some embodiments once the final selection of a challenge is complete anyone that has interacted within that campaign is then associated with the actual dare campaign to form a community.

In various embodiments the object optionally decides to take on the dare on their own turn it into a clone dare i.e. telling their fans this is what I m going to do and I want you to do this same dare in your own community or turn it into a parent child i.e. telling their fans this is the dare I m doing you do your own unique dare in your own community. In such embodiments the associated dares all exist within the same community established by the celebrity or influencer. If it s a brand then the only difference is that the brand may offer a big incentive just to get people to take on the dare as opposed to the brand taking on the dare which really isn t possible.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods described herein include a digital processing device or use of the same. In further embodiments the digital processing device includes one or more hardware central processing units CPU that carry out the device s functions. In still further embodiments the digital processing device further comprises an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. In some embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected a computer network. In further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to the Internet such that it accesses the World Wide Web. In still further embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a cloud computing infrastructure. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to an intranet. In other embodiments the digital processing device is optionally connected to a data storage device.

In accordance with the description herein suitable digital processing devices include by way of non limiting examples server computers desktop computers laptop computers notebook computers sub notebook computers netbook computers netpad computers set top computers handheld computers Internet appliances mobile smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants video game consoles and vehicles. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many smartphones are suitable for use in the system described herein. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that select televisions video players and digital music players with optional computer network connectivity are suitable for use in the system described herein. Suitable tablet computers include those with booklet slate and convertible configurations known to those of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The operating system is for example software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of applications. Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable server operating systems include by way of non limiting examples FreeBSD OpenBSD NetBSD Linux Apple Mac OS X Server Oracle Solaris Windows Server and Novell NetWare . Those of skill in the art will recognize that suitable personal computer operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . In some embodiments the operating system is provided by cloud computing. Those of skill in the art will also recognize that suitable mobile smart phone operating systems include by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS .

In some embodiments the device includes a storage and or memory device. The storage and or memory device is one or more physical apparatuses used to store data or programs on a temporary or permanent basis. In some embodiments the device is volatile memory and requires power to maintain stored information. In some embodiments the device is non volatile memory and retains stored information when the digital processing device is not powered. In further embodiments the non volatile memory comprises flash memory. In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises ferroelectric random access memory FRAM . In some embodiments the non volatile memory comprises phase change random access memory PRAM . In other embodiments the device is a storage device including by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices magnetic disk drives magnetic tapes drives optical disk drives and cloud computing based storage. In further embodiments the storage and or memory device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes a display to send visual information to a user. In some embodiments the display is a cathode ray tube CRT . In some embodiments the display is a liquid crystal display LCD . In further embodiments the display is a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD . In some embodiments the display is an organic light emitting diode OLED display. In various further embodiments on OLED display is a passive matrix OLED PMOLED or active matrix OLED AMOLED display. In some embodiments the display is a plasma display. In other embodiments the display is a video projector. In still further embodiments the display is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the digital processing device includes an input device to receive information from a user. In some embodiments the input device is a keyboard. In some embodiments the input device is a pointing device including by way of non limiting examples a mouse trackball track pad joystick game controller or stylus. In some embodiments the input device is a touch screen or a multi touch screen. In other embodiments the input device is a microphone to capture voice or other sound input. In other embodiments the input device is a video camera or other sensor to capture motion or visual input. In further embodiments the input device is a Kinect Leap Motion or the like. In still further embodiments the input device is a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a program including instructions executable by the operating system of an optionally networked digital processing device. In further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is a tangible component of a digital processing device. In still further embodiments a computer readable storage medium is optionally removable from a digital processing device. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium includes by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services and the like. In some cases the program and instructions are permanently substantially permanently semi permanently or non transitorily encoded on the media.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include at least one computer program or use of the same. A computer program includes a sequence of instructions executable in the digital processing device s CPU written to perform a specified task. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a computer program may be written in various versions of various languages.

The functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments. In some embodiments a computer program comprises one sequence of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program comprises a plurality of sequences of instructions. In some embodiments a computer program is provided from one location. In other embodiments a computer program is provided from a plurality of locations. In various embodiments a computer program includes one or more software modules. In various embodiments a computer program includes in part or in whole one or more web applications one or more mobile applications one or more standalone applications one or more web browser plug ins extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a web application. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a web application in various embodiments utilizes one or more software frameworks and one or more database systems. In some embodiments a web application is created upon a software framework such as Microsoft .NET or Ruby on Rails RoR . In some embodiments a web application utilizes one or more database systems including by way of non limiting examples relational non relational object oriented associative and XML database systems. In further embodiments suitable relational database systems include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft SQL Server mySQL and Oracle . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that a web application in various embodiments is written in one or more versions of one or more languages. A web application may be written in one or more markup languages presentation definition languages client side scripting languages server side coding languages database query languages or combinations thereof. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a markup language such as Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML or eXtensible Markup Language XML . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a presentation definition language such as Cascading Style Sheets CSS . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a client side scripting language such as Asynchronous Javascript and XML AJAX Flash Actionscript Javascript or Silverlight . In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a server side coding language such as Active Server Pages ASP ColdFusion Perl Java JavaServer Pages JSP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Python Ruby Tcl Smalltalk WebDNA or Groovy. In some embodiments a web application is written to some extent in a database query language such as Structured Query Language SQL . In some embodiments a web application integrates enterprise server products such as IBM Lotus Domino . In some embodiments a web application includes a media player element. In various further embodiments a media player element utilizes one or more of many suitable multimedia technologies including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash HTML 5 Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java and Unity .

In some embodiments a computer program includes a mobile application provided to a mobile digital processing device. In some embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device at the time it is manufactured. In other embodiments the mobile application is provided to a mobile digital processing device via the computer network described herein.

In view of the disclosure provided herein a mobile application is created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using hardware languages and development environments known to the art. Those of skill in the art will recognize that mobile applications are written in several languages. Suitable programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C C Objective C Java Javascript Pascal Object Pascal Python Ruby VB.NET WML and XHTML HTML with or without CSS or combinations thereof.

Suitable mobile application development environments are available from several sources. Commercially available development environments include by way of non limiting examples AirplaySDK alcheMo Appcelerator Celsius Bedrock Flash Lite .NET Compact Framework Rhomobile and WorkLight Mobile Platform. Other development environments are available without cost including by way of non limiting examples Lazarus MobiFlex MoSync and Phonegap. Also mobile device manufacturers distribute software developer kits including by way of non limiting examples iPhone and iPad iOS SDK Android SDK BlackBerry SDK BREW SDK Palm OS SDK Symbian SDK webOS SDK and Windows Mobile SDK.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that several commercial forums are available for distribution of mobile applications including by way of non limiting examples Apple App Store Android Market BlackBerry App World App Store for Palm devices App Catalog for webOS Windows Marketplace for Mobile Ovi Store for Nokia devices Samsung Apps and Nintendo DSi Shop.

In some embodiments a computer program includes a standalone application which is a program that is run as an independent computer process not an add on to an existing process e.g. not a plug in. Those of skill in the art will recognize that standalone applications are often compiled. A compiler is a computer program s that transforms source code written in a programming language into binary object code such as assembly language or machine code. Suitable compiled programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C Objective C COBOL Delphi Eiffel Java Lisp Python Visual Basic and VB.NET or combinations thereof. Compilation is often performed at least in part to create an executable program. In some embodiments a computer program includes one or more executable complied applications.

In some embodiments the computer program includes a web browser plug in. In computing a plug in is one or more software components that add specific functionality to a larger software application. Makers of software applications support plug ins to enable third party developers to create abilities which extend an application to support easily adding new features and to reduce the size of an application. When supported plug ins enable customizing the functionality of a software application. For example plug ins are commonly used in web browsers to play video generate interactivity scan for viruses and display particular file types. Those of skill in the art will be familiar with several web browser plug ins including Adobe Flash Player Microsoft Silverlight and Apple QuickTime . In some embodiments the toolbar comprises one or more web browser extensions add ins or add ons. In some embodiments the toolbar comprises one or more explorer bars tool bands or desk bands.

In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that several plug in frameworks are available that enable development of plug ins in various programming languages including by way of non limiting examples C Delphi Java PHP Python and VB.NET or combinations thereof.

Web browsers also called Internet browsers are software applications designed for use with network connected digital processing devices for retrieving presenting and traversing information resources on the World Wide Web. Suitable web browsers include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome Apple Safari Opera Software Opera and KDE Konqueror. In some embodiments the web browser is a mobile web browser. Mobile web browsers also called mircrobrowsers mini browsers and wireless browsers are designed for use on mobile digital processing devices including by way of non limiting examples handheld computers tablet computers netbook computers subnotebook computers smartphones music players personal digital assistants PDAs and handheld video game systems. Suitable mobile web browsers include by way of non limiting examples Google Android browser RIM BlackBerry Browser Apple Safari Palm Blazer Palm WebOS Browser Mozilla Firefox for mobile Microsoft Internet Explorer Mobile Amazon Kindle Basic Web Nokia Browser Opera Software Opera Mobile and Sony PSP browser.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include software server and or database modules or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein software modules are created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art. The software modules disclosed herein are implemented in a multitude of ways. In various embodiments a software module comprises a file a section of code a programming object a programming structure or combinations thereof. In further various embodiments a software module comprises a plurality of files a plurality of sections of code a plurality of programming objects a plurality of programming structures or combinations thereof. In various embodiments the one or more software modules comprise by way of non limiting examples a web application a mobile application and a standalone application. In some embodiments software modules are in one computer program or application. In other embodiments software modules are in more than one computer program or application. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one machine. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on more than one machine. In further embodiments software modules are hosted on cloud computing platforms. In some embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in one location. In other embodiments software modules are hosted on one or more machines in more than one location.

In some embodiments the platforms systems media and methods disclosed herein include one or more databases or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that many databases are suitable for storage and retrieval of dare creator target challenge beneficiary goal and funds raised information. In various embodiments suitable databases include by way of non limiting examples relational databases non relational databases object oriented databases object databases entity relationship model databases associative databases and XML databases. In some embodiments a database is internet based. In further embodiments a database is web based. In still further embodiments a database is cloud computing based. In other embodiments a database is based on one or more local computer storage devices.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

