---

title: Inhibition of small ubiquitin-like modifier enzymes with substituted pyrrolo[2,3-b]quinoxalines
abstract: According to the embodiments described herein, a methods for inhibiting small ubiquitin-like modifier enzymes in a cell are provided. Such methods may include administering certain substituted pyrrolo[2,3-b]-quinoxalines to the cell. In some aspects, the small ubiquitin-like modifier enzyme is SUMO E1 or SUMO E2. In some aspects, the methods may be used to inhibit a cancer cell in vitro (e.g., grown in culture) or in vivo (e.g., as part of a tumor in a subject). In other embodiments, methods for treating a cancer, degenerative diseases and viral infection are provided. Such methods may include administering an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition to a subject having cancer. The pharmaceutical composition may include a small ubiquitin-like modifier inhibitor compound. In some embodiments, the method for treating a disease may further comprise administering one or more DNA-damaging therapy in combination with administration of the pharmaceutical composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09045483&OS=09045483&RS=09045483
owner: Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute
number: 09045483
owner_city: La Jolla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130509
---
This application is a continuation application of PCT Application No. PCT US2011 60063 filed Nov. 9 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 411 855 filed Nov. 9 2010 which are hereby incorporated in their entirety and for all purposes.

The invention was made with Government support under Grant Nos. R01 GM086172 F32 CA134180 and R03 DA026556 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health NIH . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Post translational modifications of cellular proteins by the small ubiquitin like modifier SUMO family of proteins are important epigenetic mechanisms for regulating various cellular functions. At least three members of the SUMO family SUMO 1 2 and 3 are ubiquitin like proteins that can conjugate to other cellular proteins by a biochemical mechanism similar to ubiquitination Hay 2005 Sarge 2009 Yeh 2009 .

SUMOylation requires multiple steps that are catalyzed by three types of SUMOylation enzymes activating enzyme E1 made up of two subunits SAE1 and SAE2 Uba2 conjugating enzyme E2 Ubc9 and one of several E3 ligases. This pathway is illustrated for SUMO 1 in . Briefly SUMO is activated by the E1 enzyme through ATP hydrolysis and forms a thioester conjugate with E1. SUMO is then transferred to E2 forming a thioester conjugate with E2. Finally SUMO is transferred to target proteins a step usually stimulated by an E3 ligase. SUMO modification adds a new docking site to target proteins and thus enables new protein protein interactions through the SUMO interacting motif SIM in receptor proteins Song 2004 Song 2005 . The E1 and E2 enzymes do not discriminate among the different SUMO paralogues Tatham 2003 .

SUMOylation is reversible by a process known as deSUMOlyation. The removal of SUMO proteins from modified target proteins is accomplished by deSUMOylation enzymes such as isopeptidase and SUMO sentrin specific protease SENP .

Aberrations in post translational modification of cellular proteins by the small ubiquitin like modifier SUMO family of proteins are associated with the pathogenesis of life threatening diseases such as cancer Luo 2009 Kim 2006 Mo 2005 neurodegenerative disorders Steffan 2004 Subramaniam 2009 and viral infection Jaber 2009 Ulrich 2009 Kim 2010 . Viral infection often involves hijacking the host post translational modifications providing viruses with a fast means for becoming established in host cells before the immune system can respond.

SUMOylation and deSUMOylation enzymes regulate dynamic SUMO modifications in controlling cellular functions. One of the predominant functions of SUMO mediated modifications is in DNA damage response such as damage caused by chemo and radiation therapy CRT which kills cancer cells by inducing genotoxic stress Galanty 2009 Morris 2009 Ouyang 2009 Prudden 2009 Li 2010 . DNA double strand breaks DSBs are the most dangerous form of DNA damage and lead to cell death if left unrepaired Darzynkiewicz 2009 . Upon DSB formation the histone protein H2AX is phosphorylated resulting in recruitment of several DNA damage signaling proteins to the damage sites including p53 binding protein 1 53BP1 and ATM van Attikum 2009 . SUMOylation is required for multiple steps in DNA repair pathways including recruitment of signaling and repair proteins to damage sites and enablement of repair protein function. For example recruitment of 53BP1 to DNA damage sites is dependent on its SUMOylation Galanty 2009 . 53BP1 mediates the signaling process to stop cell cycle progression and DNA replication and allows time for repair in which p53 plays an important role. p53 is also involved in apoptosis if DNA damage is not repaired. SUMOylation also plays a role in regulating p53 transactivating activity Stehmeier 2009 and trafficking Carter 2007 .

SUMOylation also directly regulates repair of various types of DNA damage. Recent studies have shown that SUMOylation is required for both major DSB repair pathways homologous recombination HR in which a homologous sequence acts as a repair template and non homologous end joining NHEJ in which DSB ends are ligated together Jeggo 2009 . Proteins involved in HR include the well known breast cancer related genes BRCA1 and BRCA2 as well as other proteins with DNA binding and helicase activities Jeggo 2009 . Proteins that carry out NHEJ include Ku70 Ku80 DNA PKcs XRCC4 XLF and Artemis Jeggo 2009 . Many proteins in the DSB repair pathways are substrates of SUMOylation Doksani 2009 Morris 2009 Bartek 2010 Li 2010 . SUMOylation is also important for response to single stranded DNA damage Pfander 2005 and nucleotide base excision repair Steinacher 2005 Mohan 2007 by modifying repair enzymes to regulate their activity and life spans. These findings suggest that inhibition of SUMO dependent processes can inhibit repair of a wide range of DNA damage in cancer cells thereby sensitizing tumor cells to genotoxic stress induced by CRT.

SUMOylation is required for DNA repair as evidenced by the observation that cells defective in SUMOylation are sensitive to DNA damage reagents al Khodairy et al. 1995 Shayeghi et al. 1997 . Recently two independent studies have identified the yeast protein Mms21 as the SUMO E3 ligase required for repair of both DNA alkylation damage and double strand breaks Andrews et al. 2005 Zhao Blobel 2005 . Elimination of Mms21 s SUMO E3 activity leads to DNA damage sensitivity. However the SUMOylation targets in the DNA damage response are not yet well established nor is SUMOylation s involvement in DNA repair or other cellular functions. Recent studies have shown that a SUMO targeted ubiquitin ligase STUBL is important in DNA damage response and the ligase specifically recognizes poly SUMO 2 3 chains to ubiquitinate poly SUMO modified proteins for degradation Burgess et al. 2007 Ii et al. 2007 Prudden et al. 2007 Nagai et al. 2008 Cook et al. 2009 Sun et al. 2007 .

The enzymes catalyzing SUMO modification E1 E2 E3 are present in higher levels in cancer tissues versus normal tissues and in metastasized tumors versus normal cells and play an important role in cancer proliferation and metastasis. Recent studies suggest that E1 presents an ideal target for the development of cancer therapeutics with specific genetic backgrounds. For example a genome wide siRNA screen identified the genes encoding the SUMO E1 subunits SAE1 and SAE2 among those genes with the strongest synthetic lethal interactions with KRas Luo 2009 .

DeSUMOylation enzymes are also thought to be important in cancer. Increased levels of a deSUMOylation isopeptidase Senp1 have been observed in prostate cancer and suppression of Senp1 level by siRNA has been shown to suppress prostate cancer and angiogenesis. Hypoxia also induces high levels of SUMO 1. SUMO mediated protein protein interactions appear to be involved in most SUMO dependent processes.

Given the role of SUMOylation in cancer and other disease states such as viral infection there is a need in the art for novel SUMOylation enzyme inhibitors. Such inhibitors would be useful both as therapeutics and as research tools for studying the role of SUMOylation in cellular regulation.

According to the embodiments described herein a SUMOylation inhibitor compound is provided. In one embodiment the SUMOylation inhibitor compound has a structure comprising 

and the pharmaceutically or functionally acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios wherein 

Ris halo OR N R S R SO R S O N R S O OR N R S O R OS O R C O R C O OR C O N R OC O R OC O OR OC O N R N R C O R N R C O OR N R C O N R CN NO alkyl haloalkyl alkyl OR or alkyl N R where each Ris independently of H alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl.

and the pharmaceutically or functionally acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios wherein 

In some embodiments a method for inhibiting a SUMOylation enzyme in a cell is provided. Such a method may include administering a SUMOylation inhibitor compound such as those described above to the cell. In some aspects the SUMOylation enzyme is SUMO E1 or SUMO E2.

In other embodiments a method for treating a disease is provided. Such a method may include administering an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition to a subject having the cancer. The pharmaceutical composition may include a SUMOylation inhibitor compound such as those described above. In some aspects of this embodiment the cancer may be any cancer associated with an overexpression or underexpression of a SUMO or SUMOylation enzyme or is associated with SUMOylation of a specific protein. Examples of diseases that may be treated in accordance to the embodiments described herein may include but are not limited to cancer and other neoplastic conditions e.g. colorectal cancer pancreatic cancer bone cancer or breast cancer viral infections e.g. HIV hereditary diseases and degenerative diseases.

In some embodiments the method for treating a cancer may further comprise administering one or more DNA damaging therapy in combination with administration of the pharmaceutical composition. Examples of DNA damaging therapies that may be administered in accordance with the embodiments of the disclosure include but are not limited to an ionizing radiation source or a chemotherapeutic agent selected from an alkylating agent platinum analogue or other alkylating like or nonclassical alkylating agent an intercalating agent a topoisomerase inhibitor or a cytotoxic antibiotic.

Provided herein are small molecule inhibitors of SUMOylation enzymes or pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives thereof as well as various methods of identifying making and using these inhibitors. Uses for the SUMOylation enzyme inhibitors described herein include but are not limited to methods for modulating radiation sensitivity of cancer cells killing cancer cells and treating diseases and conditions such as cancer and other neoplastic conditions viral infections hereditary diseases and degenerative diseases.

The term SUMOylation inhibitor or SUMO inhibitor as used herein refers to any small molecule inhibitor that binds one or more subunit of a SUMOylation enzyme thereby inhibiting the addition of a SUMO protein to a target protein. Such small molecule inhibitors may also inhibit one or more SUMOylation enzymes. The SUMOylation inhibitors as further described in the studies described herein have a high level of specificity to SUMO enzymes thereby affecting SUMOylation but do not bind or have very low level or negligible binding to proteins found in the ubiquitination pathway. The term SUMOylation enzyme or SUMO enzyme as used herein refers to SUMO activation enzyme E1 SUMO conjugating enzyme E2 or any one or more of approximately ten SUMO E3 ligases.

In some embodiments the SUMO inhibitors described herein are SUMO E1 inhibitors. The term SUMO E1 as used herein refers to SUMO activating enzyme E1 which is made up of subunits SAE1 and SAE2 Uba2. In certain embodiments the small molecule SUMO E1 inhibitors disclosed herein inhibit the SAE2 subunit of E1 by interfering with the active site or by acting allosterically. The SUMO E1 inhibitors may inhibit SUMO E2. The term SUMO E2 as used herein refers to SUMO conjugating enzyme E2 which is made up of a single subunit Ubc9. In certain embodiments the small molecule SUMO inhibitors described herein inhibit Ubc9 only or the inhibitors may inhibit Ubc9 and one or more E1 subunits. In these embodiments the inhibitors may inhibit Ubc9 to a greater degree than the one or more E1 subunits or they may inhibit two or more of the subunits equally.

Increased expression of SUMO enzymes may contribute to cancer tumors or other neoplastic conditions viral infection degenerative diseases genetic or hereditary diseases or other pathological conditions or diseases. Many cancers have been shown to be associated with increased levels of SUMO enzymes. For example as discussed in detail in the Examples below SUMO E1 was found to be the most elevated SUMO enzyme in colorectal cancer tissue and these high levels of SUMO E1 were associated with radioresistance in colorectal cancer as well as several other types of cancer Wiatrek et al. Differential expression of small ubiquitin like modifier family of proteins in patients with colorectal adenocarcinoma ASCO Abstract 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein see http www.asco.org ascov2 Meetings Abstracts vmview abst detail view confide 103 abstractID 71189 . Overexpression of SUMO enzymes have also been observed in other cancer types Zhu et al. 2010 Kim et al. 2006 Comerford et al 2003 Cheng et al. 2007 Bergink Jentsch 2009 Galanty et al. 2009 Morris et al. 2009 Ouyang et al. 2009 Subramaniam et al. 2009 Steffan et al. 2004 Jaber et al. 2009 

Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in the United States Burt 2009 and CRT is frequently used against colorectal cancer as a preoperative treatment to facilitate surgical intervention Watanabe 2008 and improve long term survival Garcia Aguilar 2003 . However only a small percentage 

Therefore as disclosed herein a set of small molecule SUMO E1 inhibitors or SUMO inhibitor compounds have been identified and characterized. These inhibitors which bind to SUMO E1 with high affinity and specificity represent the first highly specific small molecule inhibitors of SUMO E1. In some embodiments the SUMO inhibitors do not bind or have negligible binding affinity and specificy for proteins in the ubiquitination pathway. Based on this disclosure provided herein in certain embodiments are small molecule inhibitors of SUMO E1.

In certain embodiments the small molecule SUMO inhibitors of pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives thereof provided herein comprise a bicyclic scaffold. The bicyclic scaffold may comprise a structure of Structure A as set forth below 

and the pharmaceutically or functionally acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios wherein 

In certain embodiments the small molecule SUMO inhibitors or pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives thereof provided herein comprise a tricyclic scaffold. The tricyclic scaffold may comprise a structure of Structure B as set forth below 

and the pharmaceutically or functionally acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios wherein 

In one embodiment the compound comprising a structure of Structure B and the pharmaceutically acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios wherein 

In a more preferred embodiment the compound comprising a structure of Structure B and the pharmaceutically acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios wherein 

In another embodiment the tricyclic scaffold may comprise a structure of Structure C as set forth below 

and the pharmaceutically or functionally acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios wherein 

In certain of these embodiments the inhibitors comprise a quinoxaline scaffold having a structure as set forth below and the pharmaceutically acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios 

According to some embodiments the functional groups of the Tricyclic Quinoxaline scaffold R Rand R are selected according their ability to increase the inhibitory activity of the scaffold. In some embodiments Ris selected from CN CO2R CONHR Tosyl Ts SOTol or CONHBu. In other embodiments Ris selected from H COAr or SOPh. In other embodiments Ris selected from n Bu n Pent CHCHOMe Cy or Bn. Moreover the R Rand Rgroups may be modified based on identification of a functional group that exhibits the same similar or enhanced binding affinity toward a SUMO enzyme binding site as compared to the SUMO inhibitors described herein. In certain of these embodiments the SUMO inhibitors comprise a structure selected from one or more of the following structures and the pharmaceutically acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios set forth in Table 1 below 

As used herein the term alkyl refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon having from one to twelve carbon atoms optionally substituted with substituents selected from the group consisting of C1 C6 alkyl C1 C6 alkoxy C1 C6 alkylsulfenyl C1 C6 alkylsulfenyl C1 C6 alkylsulfonyl oxo hydroxy mercapto amino optionally substituted by alkyl carboxy carbamoyl optionally substituted by alkyl aminosulfonyl optionally substituted by alkyl nitro cyano halogen C1 C6 perfluoroalkyl or C1 C6 perfluoroalkoxy multiple degrees of substitution being allowed. Examples of alkyl as used herein include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl t butyl n pentyl isopentyl and the like.

As used herein when the term C1 C6 is used to describe a group it refers to the group containing at least 1 and at most 6 carbon atoms. For example the term C1 C6 alkyl include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl isobutyl n butyl t butyl n pentyl and isopentyl.

As used herein the term alkenyl refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon having from two to twelve carbon atoms and at least one carbon carbon double bond optionally substituted with substituents selected from the group consisting of C1 C6 alkyl C1 C6 alkoxy C1 C6 alkylsulfanyl C1 C6 alkylsulfenyl C1 C6 alkylsulfonyl oxo hydroxy mercapto amino optionally substituted by alkyl carboxy carbamoyl optionally substituted by alkyl aminosulfonyl optionally substituted by alkyl nitro cyano halogen C1 C6 perfluoroalkyl or C1 C6 perfluoroalkoxy multiple degrees of substitution being allowed. Examples of alkenyl as used herein include but are not limited to ethenyl n propenyl isopropenyl n butenyl isobutenyl t butenyl n pentenyl isopentenyl and the like.

As used herein the term alkynyl refers to a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon having from two to twelve carbon atoms and at least one carbon carbon triple bond optionally substituted with substituents selected from the group consisting of C1 C6 alkyl C1 C6 alkoxy C1 C6 alkylsulfanyl C1 C6 alkylsulfenyl C1 C6 alkylsulfonyl oxo hydroxy mercapto amino optionally substituted by alkyl carboxy carbamoyl optionally substituted by alkyl aminosulfonyl optionally substituted by alkyl nitro cyano halogen C1 C6 perfluoroalkyl or C1 C6 perfluoroalkoxy multiple degrees of substitution being allowed. Examples of alkyl as used herein include but are not limited to ethynyl n propynyl n butynyl isobutynyl t butynyl n pentynyl isopentynyl and the like.

As used herein the term aryl refers to an optionally substituted benzene ring or to an optionally substituted benzene ring system fused to one or more optionally substituted benzene rings to form for example anthracene phenanthrene or napthalene ring systems. Exemplary optional substituents include C1 C6 alkyl C1 C6 alkoxy C1 C6 alkylsulfanyl C1 C6 alkylsulfenyl C1 C6 alkylsulfonyl oxo hydroxy mercapto amino optionally substituted by alkyl carboxy tetrazolyl carbamoyl optionally substituted by alkyl aminosulfonyl optionally substituted by alkyl acyl aroyl heteroaroyl acyloxy aroyloxy heteroaroyloxy alkoxycarbonyl nitro cyano halogen C1 C6 perfluoroalkyl or C1 C6 perfluoroalkoxy heteroaryl or aryl multiple degrees of substitution being allowed. Examples of aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl 2 naphthyl 1 naphthyl biphenyl as well as substituted derivatives thereof.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a monocyclic five to seven membered aromatic ring or to a fused bicyclic aromatic ring system comprising two of such monocyclic five to seven membered aromatic rings. These hetroaryl rings contain one or more nitrogen sulfur and or oxygen heteroatoms where N oxides and sulfur oxides and dioxides are permissible heteroatom substitutions and may be optionally substituted with up to three members selected from a group consisting of C1 C6 alkyl C1 C6 haloalkyl C1 C6 haloalkoxy C1 C6 alkoxy C1 C6 alkylsulfanyl C1 C6 haloalkylsulfanyl C1 C6 alkylsulfenyl C1 C6 alkylsulfonyl oxo hydroxy mercapto amino optionally substituted by alkyl carboxy tetrazolyl carbamoyl optionally substituted by alkyl aminosulfonyl optionally substituted by alkyl acyl aroyl heteroaroyl acyloxy aroyloxy heteroaroyloxy alkoxycarbonyl nitro cyano halogen C1 C6 perfluoroalkyl or C1 C6 perfluoroalkoxy heteroaryl or aryl multiple degrees of substitution being allowed. Examples of heteroaryl groups used herein include furanyl thiophenyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl oxo pyridyl thiadiazolyl isothiazolyl pyridyl pyridazyl pyrazinyl pyrimidyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl benzofuranyl benzothiophenyl indolyl indazolyl and substituted versions thereof.

As used herein the term haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group as defined above containing carbon atoms substituted with at least one halogen halogen being as defined herein. Examples of branched or straight chained C1 C6 haloalkyl groups useful in the present invention include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl isobutyl and n butyl substituted independently with one or more halogens e.g. fluoro chloro bromo and iodo.

As used herein the term alkoxy refers to the group RaO where Ra is alkyl as defined above. Exemplary C1 C6 alkoxy groups useful in the invention include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy and t butoxy.

Ris alkylen as defined above. Exemplary cyanoalkyl groups useful in the invention include but are not limited to cyanomethyl cyanoethyl and cyanoisopropyl.

As used herein the term acyl refers to the group RC O where Ris alkyl cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl as defined herein.

As used herein the term C3 C7 cycloalkyl refers to a non aromatic cyclic hydrocarbon ring having from three to seven carbon atoms and which optionally includes a C1 C6 alkyl linker through which it may be attached. The C1 C6 alkyl group is as defined above. Exemplary C3 C7 cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl.

As used herein the term heterocyclic or the term heterocyclyl refers to a three to twelve membered heterocyclic ring having one or more degrees of unsaturation containing one or more heteroatomic substitutions selected from S SO SO O or N optionally substituted with substituents selected from the group consisting of C1 C6 alkyl C1 C6 haloalkyl C1 C6 haloalkoxy C1 C6 alkoxy C1 C6 alkylsulfanyl C1 C6 haloalkylsulfanyl C1 C6 alkylsulfenyl C1 C6 alkylsulfonyl oxo hydroxy mercapto amino optionally substituted by alkyl carboxy carbamoyl optionally substituted by alkyl aminosulfonyl optionally substituted by alkyl nitro cyano halogen C1 C6 perfluoroalkyl or C1 C6 perfluoroalkoxy multiple degrees of substitution being allowed. Such a ring may be optionally fused to one or more other heterocyclic ring s or cycloalkyl ring s . Examples of heterocyclic moieties include but are not limited to tetrahydrofuran pyran 1 4 dioxane 1 3 dioxane pyrrolidine piperidine morpholine tetrahydrothiopyran tetrahydrothiophene and the like.

As used herein the term acyloxy refers to the group RC O O where Ris alkyl cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl as defined herein.

As used herein the term heteroaroyloxy refers to the group RC O O where Ris heteroaryl as defined herein.

As used herein the term amino amino group or amino moiety refers to the group NRR wherein Rand R are preferably selected independently from one another from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy alkenyl cycloalkyl alkylenecycloalkyl cyanoalkyl aryl aralkyl heteroaryl acyl and aroyl. If both Rand R are hydrogen NRR is also referred to as unsubstituted amino moiety or unsubstituted amino group. If Rand or R are other than hydrogen NRR is also referred to as substituted amino moiety or substituted amino group. 

As used herein the term imino or imino moiety refers to the group C NR wherein Ris preferably selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl haloalkoxy alkenyl cycloalkyl alkylenecycloalkyl cyanoalkyl aryl aralkyl heteroaryl acyl and aroyl. If Ris hydrogen C NRis also referred to as unsubstituted imino moiety. If Ris a residue other than hydrogen C NRG is also referred to as substituted imino moiety. 

As used herein the term perfluoroalkyl refers to an alkyl group with all hydrogens replaced by fluorine e.g. without limitation CF.

As used herein the term perfluoroalkoxy refers to an alkoxyl group with all hydrogens replaced by fluorine e.g. without limitation OCF.

As used herein the terms group residue and radical or groups residues and radicals are usually used as synonyms respectively as it is common practice in the art.

In some embodiments the small molecule SUMO inhibitors described herein may be used in methods for inhibiting a SUMOylation enzyme in a cell. Such methods may include a step of administering an effective amount of a SUMO inhibitor compound to the cell.

According to the embodiments described herein the SUMO inhibitor compound is one or more of the SUMO inhibitors described herein. The SUMO inhibitors may therefore be used in methods for inhibiting a SUMOylation enzyme e.g. SUMO E1 SUMO E2 or any one or more of the SUMO E3 ligases in a cell as provided herein. In some embodiments such methods for inhibiting a SUMOylation enzyme may include a step of contacting the cell with or administering to the cell one or more SUMO inhibitors or a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative thereof described herein.

The cell may be of any cell type that is associated with SUMOylation e.g. a cell that overexpresses a SUMOylation enzyme underexpresses a SUMOylation enzyme or a cell that expresses a specific cellular protein that is SUMOylated in a disease or other physiological or pathological condition . In certain embodiments the cell type used in the methods for inhibiting a SUMOylation enzyme described herein may be a cell that is part of a population of cells or a biological tissue that is present in vivo in a subject having the disease or other physiological or pathological condition. This may include a human or animal patient that develops the disease or other physiological or pathological condition or alternatively may include an animal or invertebrate model wherein the disease or physiological or pathological condition may be induced. In other embodiments the cell type used in the methods for inhibiting a SUMOylation enzyme described herein may be a primary secondary or immortal cell line that is grown in culture. In certain aspects of this embodiment the method may be used in an in vitro or research setting to investigate the role of SUMOylation in the particular cell disease or condition.

The term effective amount as used herein refers to an amount of a compound that produces a desired effect. For example a population of cells may be contacted with an effective amount of a compound to study its effect in vitro e.g. cell culture or to produce a desired therapeutic effect ex vivo or in vitro. An effective amount of a compound may be used to produce a therapeutic effect in a subject such as preventing or treating a target condition alleviating symptoms associated with the condition or producing a desired physiological effect. In such a case the effective amount of a compound is a therapeutically effective amount therapeutically effective concentration or therapeutically effective dose. The precise effective amount or therapeutically effective amount is an amount of the composition that will yield the most effective results in terms of efficacy of treatment in a given subject or population of cells. This amount will vary depending upon a variety of factors including but not limited to the characteristics of the compound including activity pharmacokinetics pharmacodynamics and bioavailability the physiological condition of the subject including age sex disease type and stage general physical condition responsiveness to a given dosage and type of medication or cells the nature of the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or carriers in the formulation and the route of administration. Further an effective or therapeutically effective amount may vary depending on whether the compound is administered alone or in combination with another compound drug therapy or other therapeutic method or modality. One skilled in the clinical and pharmacological arts will be able to determine an effective amount or therapeutically effective amount through routine experimentation namely by monitoring a cell s or subject s response to administration of a compound and adjusting the dosage accordingly. For additional guidance see Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 21Edition Univ. of Sciences in Philadelphia USIP Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

E1 contains several substrate binding sites including the ATP binding pocket Lois Lima 2005 two SUMO binding surfaces Lois Lima 2005 Wang Chen and three Ubc9 binding surfaces Wang et al. 2007 Wang Chen Huang et al. 2007 . As discussed in the Examples below the tricyclic SUMO inhibitors disclosed herein were found to competitively inhibit ATP binding. Since cellular concentrations of ATP are generally high this ATP inhibition by certain of the inhibitors described herein does not necessarily result in cell toxicity when administered to a cell or to a subject in an effective dose. However inhibition of ATP binding does sensitize cells to genotoxic stress and inhibit HIV infection as discussed further in the Examples below. Therefore provided herein in certain embodiments described below are methods of using the tricyclic SUMO inhibitors disclosed herein to sensitize cells to genotoxic stress and or to treat HIV and other viral infections see .

In another embodiment inhibition of ATP binding by the tricyclic SUMO E1 inhibitors disclosed herein makes the inhibitors useful as research probes for identifying and or monitoring SUMOylation activity in vitro. In such embodiments the tricyclic inhibitors may be conjugated to or otherwise associated with a label for use in various cellular assays. Labels that may be used in accordance with these embodiments may include but are not limited to radiolabels such as the radionuclides described below and fluorophores thiol reactive labels biotin and hapten derivatives crosslinking and photoactivatable reagents avidins and lectins for use with antibodies enzyme substrates and other suitable fluorescent labels. For additional guidance see Molecular Probes Handbook A Guide to Fluorescent Probes and Labeling Technologies 11Edition Invitrogen 2010. lain Johnson and Michelle T. Z. Spence Eds. which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

In such embodiments the SUMO inhibitors may be used as probes in cell culture assays to determine the effect of SUMOylation activity in a particular cell line. To test whether SUMOylation of a protein of interest in involved in a particular function a labeled SUMO inhibitor MLS 0207587 may be added to determine whether the output of the assay changes. For example a SUMO inhibitor probe was used to demonstrate that the inhibitor specifically inhibits recruitment of 53BP1 and BRCA to DNA damage sites both of which are SUMO dependent processes in the DNA damage response thereby validating the role of SUMO inhibitors for sensitizing cancer cells to radiation see .

Provided herein in certain embodiments are methods for treating a condition or disease with one or more of the SUMO inhibitors or SUMOylation inhibitors or SUMOylation inhibitor compounds and the pharmaceutically acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios described herein These methods may include but are not limited to administering a therapeutically effective amount of the one or more SUMO inhibitors or pharmaceutically acceptable derivative solvates salts and stereoisomers thereof including mixtures thereof in all ratios to a subject having the condition or disease. In one embodiment the SUMO inhibitor is a SUMO E1 inhibitor. In certain embodiments the or one or more SUMO inhibitors may be identified by methods described herein for example using a high throughput screening method to identify a SUMO inhibitor followed by biochemical assays to confirm activities and cellular assays to validate the effects of such inhibitors in cells .

As used herein the term functionally effective derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable derivative refers to any physiologically functional derivative of a novel SUMO inhibitor disclosed herein. Such derivatives may include pharmaceutically acceptable salts or so called pro drug compounds for example compounds according to the invention that are derivatized with alkyl groups acyl groups sugars or peptides such as oligopeptides that are easily degraded or metabolized to the active compounds according to the invention. Such derivatives may include biodegradable polymer derivatives of the compounds according to the embodiments described herein. Suitable polymers and methods for producing biodegradable polymeric derivatives are known in the art. Further such derivatives include analogs that have substitutions or modifications that one skilled in the art would recognize as having the same similar or improved function as the SUMO inhibitors described herein. Upon administration to a subject a functional derivative of a SUMO inhibitor is capable of providing directly or indirectly a SUMO inhibitor disclosed herein an analog of a SUMO inhibitor disclosed herein or an active metabolite thereof. Such derivatives are clear to those skilled in the art without undue experimentation. For additional guidance see Burger s Medicinal Chemistry Drug Discovery and Development 7th Edition Wiley Interscience 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein to the extent that it teaches physiologically functional derivatives.

As used herein the term solvate refers to a complex of variable stoichiometry formed by a solute in this invention a SUMO inhibitor derivative comprising a structure described herein or a salt or physiologically functional derivative thereof and a solvent. Such solvents for the purpose of the invention may not interfere with the biological activity of the solute. Examples of suitable solvents include but are not limited to water aqueous solution e.g. buffer methanol ethanol and acetic acid. Preferably the solvent used is a pharmaceutically acceptable solvent. Examples of suitable pharmaceutically acceptable solvents include without limitation water aqueous solution e.g. buffer ethanol and acetic acid. Most preferably the solvent used is water or aqueous solution e.g. buffer . Examples for suitable solvates are the mono or dihydrates or alcoholates of the compounds according to the invention.

Certain of the compounds described herein may contain one or more chiral atoms or may otherwise be capable of existing as two or more stereoisomers which are usually enantiomers and or diastereomers. Accordingly the compounds of this invention include mixtures of stereoisomers mixtures of enantiomers as well as purified stereoisomers purified enantiomers or stereoisomerically enriched mixtures enantiomerically enriched mixtures. Also included within the scope of the invention are the individual isomers of the compounds represented by the structures described herein as well as any wholly or partially equilibrated mixtures thereof. The invention also covers the individual isomers of the compounds represented by the structures above as mixtures with isomers thereof in which one or more chiral centers are inverted. Also it is understood that all tautomers and mixtures of tautomers of the SUMO inhibitor compounds described herein are included within the scope of the SUMO inhibitor compounds and preferably the structures and scaffolds corresponding thereto.

Racemates obtained can be resolved into the isomers mechanically or chemically by methods known in the art. Diastereomers are preferably formed from the racemic mixture by reaction with an optically active resolving agent. Examples of suitable resolving agents are optically active acids such as the D and L forms of tartaric acid diacetyltartaric acid dibenzoyltartaric acid mandelic acid malic acid lactic acid or the various optically active camphorsulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid. Also advantageous is enantiomer resolution with the aid of a column filled with an optically active resolving agent for example dinitrobenzoyl phenylglycine an example of a suitable eluent is a hexane isopropanol acetonitrile mixture. The diastereomer resolution mat also be carried out by standard purification processes such as for example chromatography or fractional crystallization. It also possible to obtain optically active SUMO inhibitor compounds by the methods described above by using starting materials which are already optically active.

SUMOylation inhibitors when used for a short period of time are unlikely to be toxic to normal noncancerous cells that divide slowly. Recent studies have shown that expression of a peptide inhibitor of the down stream effects of SUMOylation did not induce cytotoxicity in MCF 7 WT KRas status cells in the absence of genotoxic stress Li et al. 2010 .

The small molecule SUMO inhibitors and the pharmaceutically or functionally acceptable derivatives solvates salts and steroisomers thereof including mixture thereof in all ratios provided herein may be used to treat any condition or disease that is associated with altered levels of SUMOylation including but not limited to cancer tumors neoplastic conditions or syndromes viral infections e.g. HIV cardiovascular disease degenerative disease and genetic or hereditary diseases. Such diseases may be associated with for example an overexpression or underexpression of one or more SUMOylation enzymes or one or more specific proteins that are SUMOylated in the disease or condition. Examples of specific proteins that may be SUMOylated in a disease or condition include but are not limited to p53 HDAC cyclins and other proteins in cancer SOD1 in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ataxin 1 in spinocerebellar ataxia huntingtin in Huntington s disease tau synuclein DJ 1 or other proteins in Parkinson s disease tau APP or other proteins in Alzheimer s disease lamin A in familial dilated cardiomyopathy 1E1 and 1E2 in human CMV and P6 Gag in HIV.

In one embodiment the small molecule SUMO E1 inhibitors provided herein are used to treat any cancer associated with increased or decreased expression of SUMO enzymes.

Cancers tumors or other neoplastic conditions or syndromes that may be treated according to the embodiments described herein include but are not limited to adenoid cystic carcinoma adrenal gland tumor amyloidosis anal cancer appendix cancer ataxia telangiectasia attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis Beckwith Wiedemann syndrome bile duct cancer Birt Hogg Dube syndrome bladder cancer bone cancer brain tumor breast cancer carcinoid tumor Carney Complex cervical cancer childhood cancer e.g. brain stem glioma astrocytoma central nervous system craniopharyngioma Desmoplastic Infantile ganglioglioma ependymoma Ewings family of tumors germ cell tumor acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL acute myeloid leukemia AML Hodgkin s lymphoma Non Hodgkin s lymphoma medulloblastoma neuroblastoma osteosarcoma pleuropulmonary blastoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma Wilms tumor colorectal cancer Cowden syndrome endocrine tumor endometrial cancer esophageal cancer eye cancer eyelid cancer fallopian tube cancer familial adenomatous polyposis familial malignant melanoma gallbladder cancer Gardner syndrome gastrointestinal stromal tumor GIST gestational trophoblastic tumor head and neck cancer hereditary cancer e.g. breast ovarian diffuse gastric leiomyomatosis renal cell mixed polyposis syndrome non VHL clear cell renal cell carcinoma pancreatitis and papillary renal cell carcinoma HIV and AIDS related cancer islet cell tumor juvenile polyposis syndrome kidney cancer lacrimal gland tumor laryngeal and hypopharyngeal cancer leukemias e.g. acute lymphocytic leukemia ALL acute myeloid leukemia AML B cell leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL chronic myeloid leukemia CML eosinophilic leukemia T cell leukemia Li Fraumeni syndrome liver cancer lung cancer Hodgkin s lymphoma Non Hodgkin s lymphoma Lynch syndrome mastocytosis melanoma meningioma mesothelioma Muir Torre syndrome multiple endocrine neoplasia types 1 and 2 multiple myeloma myelodysplastic syndromes MDS MYH associated polyposis nasal cavity and paranasal sinus cancer nasopharyngeal cancer neuroendocrine tumor neurofibromatosis types 1 and 2 nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome oral and oropharyngeal cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer parathyroid cancer penile cancer Peutz Jeghers syndrome pituitary gland tumor prostate cancer salivary gland cancer rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma skin cancer non melanoma small bowel cancer stomach cancer testicular cancer thymoma thyroid cancer tuberous sclerosis syndrome Turcot syndrome unknown primary cancer uterine cancer vaginal cancer Von Hippel Lindau syndrome vulvar cancer Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia Werner syndrome and xeroderma pigmentosa.

In some embodiments cancers tumors or other neoplastic conditions or syndromes that may be treated according to the embodiments described herein include but are not limited to those that are considered to be responsive to radiation therapy alone or in combination with one or more other treatments including but not limited to brain cancer breast cancer cervical cancer colorectal cancer endometrial cancer head and neck cancer Hodgkin s disease and local extranodal lymphoma melanoma ovarian cancer prostate cancer rhabdomyosarcoma retinoplastoma skin and lip cancer soft tissue carcinoma testicular cancer thyroid cancer and Wilms tumor.

In some embodiments the SUMO inhibitor is part of a pharmaceutical composition. The pharmaceutical composition may include one or more SUMO inhibitor and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some embodiments the pharmaceutical composition SUMO inhibitor may be administered in combination with one or more DNA damaging therapies. In this case the SUMO inhibitor may sensitize the target cells cancer cells to the DNA damaging therapy. Thus the DNA damaging therapy is more effective and allows the use of lower doses thereby minimizing or eliminating harm to healthy cells.

The term treat treating or treatment as used herein with regard to a condition or disease may refer to preventing a condition or disease slowing the onset or rate of development of the condition or disease reducing the risk of developing the condition or disease preventing or delaying the development of symptoms associated with the condition or disease reducing or ending symptoms associated with the condition or disease generating a complete or partial regression of the condition or disease or some combination thereof.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may refer to a pharmaceutically acceptable material composition or vehicle that is involved in carrying or transporting a compound of interest from one tissue organ or portion of the body to another tissue organ or portion of the body. For example the carrier may be a liquid or solid filler diluent excipient solvent or encapsulating material or some combination thereof described in further detail below. Each component of the carrier must be pharmaceutically acceptable in that it must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation. It also must be suitable for contact with any tissue organ or portion of the body that it may encounter meaning that it must not carry a risk of toxicity irritation allergic response immunogenicity or any other complication that excessively outweighs its therapeutic benefits.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are well known in the art and include for example aqueous solutions such as water or physiologically buffered saline or other solvents or vehicles such as glycols glycerol oils such as olive oil or injectable organic esters or emulsions such as oil water emulsions or a triglyceride emulsion various types of wetting agents tablets coated tablets and capsules. A suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may be selected taking into account the chosen mode of administration.

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can also contain physiologically acceptable compounds that act for example to stabilize or to increase the absorption of the conjugate. Such physiologically acceptable compounds include for example carbohydrates such as glucose sucrose or dextrans antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or glutathione chelating agents low molecular weight proteins or other stabilizers or excipients. One skilled in the art will know that the choice of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier including a physiologically acceptable compound depends for example on the route of administration of the composition.

In one preferred embodiment the pharmaceutical carrier may be a liquid and the pharmaceutical composition would be in the form of a solution. In another equally preferred embodiment the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is a solid and the pharmaceutical composition is in the form of a powder or tablet.

A solid carrier can include one or more substances which may also act as flavoring agents lubricants solubilizers suspending agents fillers glidants compression aids binders or table disintegrating agents it can also be an encapsulating material. In powders the carrier is a finely divided solid that is in admixture with the finely divided active ingredient. In tablets the active ingredient is mixed with a carrier having the necessary compression properties in suitable proportions and compacted in the shape and size desired. The powders and tablets may contain up to 99 of the active ingredient. Suitable solid carriers include for example calcium phosphate magnesium stearate talc sugars lactose dextrin starch gelatin cellulose polyvinylpyrrolidine low melting waxes and ion exchange resins.

Besides containing an effective amount of the SUMO inhibitors described herein the pharmaceutical compositions may also include suitable diluents preservatives solubilizers emulsifiers adjuvant and or carriers.

The compound can be administered in the form of a sterile solution or suspension containing other solutes or suspending agents for example enough saline or glucose to make the solution isotonic bile salts acacia gelatin sorbitan monoleate polysorbate 80 oleate esters of sorbitol and its anhydrides copolymerized with ethylene oxide and the like.

Optimal dosages to be administered may be determined by those skilled in the art and will vary with the particular compound in use the severity of the disease state drug combination s reaction sensitivities and response to therapy. Additional factors depending on the particular subject being treated including the general health of the subject the age weight gender and diet of the subject and time and frequency of administration will result in a need to adjust dosages. Administration of the SUMO inhibitors or pharmaceutical composition thereof may be effected continuously or intermittently. In any treatment regimen the SUMO inhibitors or pharmaceutical composition may be administered to a patient either singly or in a cocktail containing other therapeutic agents compositions or the like including but not limited to tolerance inducing agents potentiators and side effect relieving agents. Preferred potentiators include monensin ammonium chloride perhexyline verapamil amantadine and chloroquine. All of these agents are administered in generally accepted efficacious dose ranges such as those disclosed in the Physician s Desk Reference 41st Ed. Publisher Edward R. Barnhart N.J. 1987 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The term subject may refer to a human or any other animal animal model or invertebrate model having a condition a disease a cell or a population of cells that may be treated or used accordance with the methods or with the compounds or compositions described herein. In one embodiment the subject is a human subject having a disease or condition such as those described herein. In other embodiments the subject is any other animal having such a disease or condition including an animal model used as a research tool that is developed to have the disease or condition or has one or more aspects attributes symptoms or other variables associated with the disease or condition. As such the SUMO inhibitors described herein may be used as research tools. Such animals or animal models may include but are not limited to mice rats rabbits monkeys pigs dogs cats and birds. In another embodiment the subject may be any other vertebrate or invertebrate model that can be used as a research tool including but not limited to a fish e.g. zebrafish an insect e.g. nematode e.g. mollusk e.g. .

In some embodiments a cell or population of cells grown in culture may be used in accordance with the methods or with the compounds or compositions described herein. The cell or population of cells may be derived from or cultured from one or more subjects described above and may used as a research tool in accordance with the embodiments described herein.

Administering one or more compounds or compositions described herein to the subject cell or population of cells to investigate one or more mechanisms or other aspects of a condition or disease described herein or for investigating the effect of one or more compounds or compositions described herein when administered to the cell population of cells or subject.

The term route of administration or administering may refer to any administration pathway known in the art including but not limited to aerosol enteral nasal ophthalmic oral parenteral rectal transdermal e.g. topical cream or ointment patch or vaginal. Transdermal administration may be accomplished using a topical cream or ointment or by means of a transdermal patch. Parenteral refers to a route of administration that is generally associated with injection including infraorbital infusion intraarterial intracapsular intracardiac intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intrapulmonary intraspinal intrasternal intrathecal intrauterine intravenous subarachnoid subcapsular subcutaneous transmucosal or transtracheal.

The tricyclic SUMO E1 inhibitors characterized herein were not toxic to human hepatocytes at concentrations up to 50 M but induced significant sensitivity to radiation in various cancer cell lines with an LCof approximately 10 M or less see . These findings are particularly important in developing treatment strategies and regimens for increasing the efficacy of radiation therapy because radiation therapy is delivered locally to tumors but systemically delivered SUMOylation inhibitors should not cause significant damage to non irradiated normal cells. Additionally such inhibitors may be directly applied to rectal cancers locally an established strategy. Taken together the studies described herein are significant in that they should lead to development of new paradigms of more effective CRT that are applicable to a wide range of cancers as well as the first small molecular probes of SUMOylation to elucidate its role in cellular regulation.

Therefore according to some embodiments a SUMO inhibitor alone or as part of a pharmaceutical composition may be administered in combination with one or more additional therapeutic agents to treat a condition or disease that is associated with altered levels of SUMOylation. In some embodiments the one or more additional therapeutic agents include one or more DNA damaging or genotoxic therapy. Administration of the SUMO inhibitor in combination with the one or more genotoxic therapy may increase the efficacy of the one or more additional therapeutic agents produce a synergistic effect between the inhibitor and the one or more additional therapeutic agents sensitize cells affected by the condition or disease associated with altered levels of SUMOylation or a combination thereof.

The term in combination or in combination with as used herein means in the course of treating the same disease or condition in a subject using two or more therapies e.g. agents drugs treatment regimens treatment modalities or a combination thereof in any order. This includes simultaneous administration or co administration administration of a first therapy prior to or after administration of a second therapy as well as in a temporally spaced order of up to several days apart. Such combination treatment may also include more than a single administration of any one or more therapies. Further the administration of the two or more therapies may be by the same or different routes of administration.

According to the embodiments described herein genotoxic therapies that may be administered in combination with the SUMO inhibitors to treat a disease or condition associated with SUMOylation may include but are not limited to administration of one or more radiation therapy regimens administration of one or more DNA damaging or genotoxic chemotherapeutic agents or a combination thereof.

Administration of one or more radiation therapy regimens may include any source of ionizing radiation including x rays gamma rays alpha particles beta particles or a combination thereof. These radiation sources may be administered using any sealed source e.g. external beam radiation therapy brachytherapy stereotactic radiation virtual simulation 3 dimensional conformal radiation therapy 3DCRT and intensity modulated radiation therapy IMRT image guided radiation therapy IGRT particle therapy or unsealed source e.g. systemic radioisotope therapy . Examples of radiation sources or imaging methods that may be used according to the embodiments described herein may include but are not limited to radiographs computed tomography CT fluoroscopy positron emission tomography PET single photon emission computed tomography SPECT radionuclides used alone or with an imaging method such as CT PET or SPECT e.g. Barium 133 Cadmium 109 Cobalt 57 Cobalt 60 Iodine 131 Iodine 131 methaiodobenzylguanidine MIBG Europium 152 Manganese 54 Sodium 22 Zinc 65 Technetium 99m Polonium 210 Strontium 90 Thallium 204 Carbon 14 Lutetium 177 Yttrium 90 Phosphorus 32 Strontium 89 Samarium 153 Radium 223 Bismuth 213 radioimmunotherapy e.g. Yttrium Y ibritumomab tiuxetan Iodine I tositumomab 

In some embodiments the one or more genotoxic chemotherapeutic agents that may be administered in combination with the SUMO inhibitors described herein include but are not limited to i alkylating agents platinum analogues or other alkylating like or nonclassical alkylating agents e.g. carmustine streptozocin busulfan chlorambucil ifosfamide cyclophosphamide thiotepa lomustine cisplatin carboplatin mechlorethamine chloambucil oxaliplatin uramustine melphalan nedaplatin satraplatin triplatin tetranitrate procarbazine altretamine and temozolomide ii intercalating agents e.g. doxorubicin epirubicin danorubicin daunomycin proflavine ethidium bromide berberine thalidomide and dactinomysin iii topoisomerase inhibitors etopocide topotecan irinotecan amsacrine. camptothecin lamellarin D teniposide aurintricarboxylic acid and HU 331 and iv cytotoxic antibiotics e.g. actinomycin. valrubicin idarubicin bleomycin plicamycin and mitomysin .

Having described the invention with reference to the embodiments and illustrative examples those in the art may appreciate modifications to the invention as described and illustrated that do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as disclosed in the specification. The examples are set forth to aid in understanding the invention but are not intended to and should not be construed to limit its scope in any way. The examples do not include detailed descriptions of conventional methods. Such methods are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and are described in numerous publications. Further all references cited above and in the examples below are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

SUMO1 2 and 3 mRNA levels were measured in the colorectal cancer cell lines HCT116 and HT29 which represent the majority of colorectal cancer types e.g. they have chromosome instability or are mismatch repair deficient . Specifically gene expression levels were measured for both SUMO E1 subunits SAE1 and SAE2 SUMO E2 Ubc9 the SUMO E3 ligases PIAS1 PIAS2 PIAS3 PIAS4 RanBP2 MMS21 and de SUMOylation enzymes SENP1 2 3 4 5 6 and 7. Expression levels in HCT116 and HT29 were compared to those in normal colon mucosa. GAPDH expression levels were used as a control.

Significantly higher mRNA levels were observed for most SUMOylation related genes Table 2 . The two E1 subunits SAE1 and SAE2 were the most elevated with significantly greater increases in expression than Ubc9 E2 and PIAS3 E3 . This is significant because Ubc9 and PIAS3 were both previously found to be elevated in many cancer types Wang 2004 Mo 2005 .

Immunohistochemistry studies were performed on stage II and III colorectal tumor specimens and matched normal tissues. Consistent with the mRNA expression results SAE1 and SAE2 were the most significantly overexpressed SUMOylation related proteins in tumor specimens relative to the matched normal tissues Wiatrek et al. Differential expression of small ubiquitin like modifier family of proteins in patients with colorectal adenocarcinoma ASCO Abstract 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein see http www.asco.org ascov2 Meetings Abstracts vmview abst detail view confide 103 abstra ctl D 71189 .

SAE1 and SAE2 levels were found to be the only SUMO proteins with increased expression in resistant tumors after CRT in comparison to pretreatment biopsy samples. To validate this clinical observation a radioresistant HCT116 line was developed by irradiating 2Gy day a mouse xenograft tumor for one week cutting out the xenograft and using it to start a primary culture then irradiating the culture 2Gy day for another week. Comparison of the radioresistant HCT116 line with the parental line showed that the SAE2 level was approximately 3 fold greater in the radioresistant line. The level of other SUMO enzymes did not change significantly. The results of these studies indicate that upregulated SUMO E1 levels are correlated with a patient s response to CRT and that the E1 level increases after CRT in resistant tumors.

Through the Molecular Library Probe Production Center Network MLPCN at least 300 000 compounds were screened using a TR FRET method an ALPHASCREEN method or both and tested for their ability to inhibit SUMOylation of a target protein via SUMO E1 or SUMO E2. The assays were based on SUMOylation of the target protein RanGAP1 which is a protein that is efficiently SUMOylated with only the SUMO E1 and E2 enzymes and does not use E3 ligases. A fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET assay was the primary assay followed by a chemoluminescence based secondary assay using ALPHA screen to eliminate false positive hits. Then the hits were screened by a poly ubiquitination assay using ubiquitin ubiquitin E1 Ubc5 and Apc11 to eliminate inhibitors not specific to SUMOylation. The screening identified a potent family of SUMOylation inhibitors based on a tricyclic scaffold.

Approximately 200 small molecule inhibitors of SUMO E1 were identified according to these methods. These inhibitors can be classified into ten compound scaffolds three of which were selected for further characterization based on having a higher potency as compared to other molecule inhibitors that were identified. Exemplar studies to determine the efficacy and potency of the inhibitors are illustrated in . Several SUMO E1 inhibitors based on these scaffolds were synthesized purchased or both for further characterization 

One of the selected scaffolds is a tricyclic scaffold containing the 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b quinoxalines . Approximately 30 compounds with this scaffold were screened for their ability to inhibit SUMO E1. The structures of twelve of these compounds are set forth in and Table 1 above along with the in vitro ICof each compound for SUMO E1. Table 1 shows representative compounds of the SUMOylation inhibitors derived from the singleton scaffold. Of the screened compounds quinoxaline 1 was identified as one of the most potent SUMO E1 inhibitor identified and selected as a lead compound identified herein as MLS0437113 with an in vitro ICof approximately 0.25 0.5 M and a Kd of approximately 180 nM upper panel and . In addition quinoxaline 1 is more than 100 fold more selective for SUMOylation than for the homologous ubiquitin E1 suggesting that it does not inhibit SUMO E1 through non specific mechanisms . Another compound from this scaffold group quinoxaline 2 does not inhibit SUMO E1. Quinoxaline 2 is structurally very similar to quinoxaline 1 but lacks a phenyl group. This suggests that this phenyl group is important to SUMO E1 inhibition. Since quinoxaline 2 did not exhibit SUMO E1 inhibition it was used as a control for further studies.

The tricyclic SUMOylation inhibitor compounds described herein may be synthesized using any suitable method known in the art including according to the representative protocols shown below.

2 tosylacetonitrile B 0.108 g 0.5 mmol was transferred to a 250 ml round bottom flask and dissolved in 10 ml DMSO. Cesium carbonate 0.245 g 0.75 mmol was added to the reaction mixture followed by addition of 2 3 dichloroquinoxaline 0.1 g 0.5 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The crude reaction mixture was diluted with 50 ml ethyl acetate and washed with 1N HCl 2 50 mL and brine solution 2 50 mL . The organic layer was collected and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to yield the crude product C 2 3 chloroquinoxalin 2 yl 2 tosylacetonitrile which was taken to the next step without further purification. Compound C 0.150 g 0.42 mmol was transferred to a microwave vessel containing 1 ml butyl amine. The reaction mixture was subjected to microwave irradiation at 70 C. for 30 min. The resultant crude reaction mixture was purified using column chromatography to yield compound D as shown in Scheme 1 0.105 g 64 yield . H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 8.24 8.15 m 3H 7.93 dd J 8.2 1.5 Hz 1H 7.58 dddd J 25.1 8.3 6.9 1.6 Hz 2H 7.29 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 6.57 bs 2H 4.19 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.38 s 3H 1.86 1.73 m 2H 1.48 1.38 m 2H 0.99 t J 7.3 Hz 3H . ESI m z 395 M H .

Compound D 250.0 mg 0.633 mmol generated in Scheme 1 was dissolved in 5 ml dry THF at 0 C. followed by addition of NaH 22.0 mg 0.951 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 5 minutes followed by addition of benzoyl chloride 89.0 mg 0.633 mmol . The progress of the reaction was monitored using TLC and after completion of reaction 30 min the reaction mixture was quenched by addition of NHCl solution. The crude reaction mixture was diluted with 50 ml ethyl acetate and washed with 1N HCL 2 50 mL and brine solution 2 50 mL . The organic layer was collected and concentrated under reduced pressure to yield the crude product which was purified using column chromatography to furnish compound E as shown in Scheme 2 145.0 mg 46.0 yield . H NMR 500 MHz Chloroform d 10.48 s 1H 8.40 8.28 m 1H 8.23 8.14 m 2H 8.15 8.07 m 3H 7.79 7.70 m 3H 7.66 t J 7.6 Hz 2H 7.25 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 4.59 t J 7.4 Hz 2H 2.35 s 3H 1.95 1.79 m 2H 1.34 1.23 m 2H 0.91 t J 7.4 Hz 3H . ESI m z 500 M H .

Malononitrile B 0.66 g 10 mmol was dissolved in 20 ml DMSO. Cesium carbonate 4.87 g 15 mmol was added to the reaction mixture followed by addition of 2 3 dichloroquinoxaline 2.0 g 10 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The crude reaction mixture was diluted with 50 ml ethyl acetate and washed with 1N HCl 2 50 mL . the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 80 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine solution 2 50 mL . The organic layer was collected and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to yield the crude product C 2 3 chloroquinoxalin 2 yl malononitrile 2.0 g which was used in the next step without further purification. Compound C 0.22 g 1 mmol was transferred to a microwave vessel containing 1 ml butyl amine. The reaction mixture was subjected to microwave irradiation at 70 C. for 30 min. The resultant crude reaction mixture was purified using column chromatography to yield compound D as shown in Scheme 3 0.20 g 86 yield . ESI m z 266 M H .

Compound D 200.0 mg 0.76 mmol was dissolved in 9 ml dry THF at 0 C. under nitrogen atmosphere followed by addition of NaH 27.0 mg 1.13 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 5 minutes followed by addition of acetyl chloride 107.0 mg 0.76 mmol . The progress of the reaction was carefully monitored using TLC and after completion of reaction 30 min the reaction mixture was quenched by addition of NHCl solution 30 mL . The crude reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL . The combined organic layer was washed with brine solution 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to yield the crude product which was purified using column chromatography to furnish compound E as shown in Scheme 4 170.0 mg 61 yield as yellow solid. ESI m z 370 M H .

An additional synthesis strategy was developed for generating tricyclic scaffold derivatives including quinoxaline. The synthesis route for quinoxaline 1 is set forth in Scheme 5.

Briefly upon heating commercially available nitrile 3 and 2 3 dichloroquinoxaline 4 an excellent yield of monosubstituted quinoxaline derivative 5 was obtained. This reaction can be carried out on a multigram scale. Treatment of 5 with n butylamine for 3 days led to displacement of chloride and cyclization which afforded quinoxaline 2 in moderate yields. Sulfonylation of quinoxaline 2 gave quinoxaline 1.

The roles of R R and Ron the quinoxaline core may also be evaluated by introducing different substituents. This can be readily done at different points in the synthesis. Potential substitutions include various stabilized carbonanions in step 1 different alkyl and aryl amines in step 2 and different acylating groups including sulfonyl and phosphoryl in step 3.

Alternatively to evaluate the importance of the large quinoxaline template smaller analogs such as 2 3 dichloro 2 3 pyrazinedicarbonitrile 7 in place of quinoxaline 4 may be prepared and evaluated. Following the chemistry outlined in Scheme 6 this may lead to pyrrolo 2 3 b pyrazine analog 8 for direct comparison with quinoxaline analog 1. The use of dichloropyrazine 7 has recently been shown to undergo monosubstitution with carbanionic nucleophiles Chekmarev 2006 . Scheme 6 

It is likely that the benzene moiety of the quinoxaline ring system is important for binding and specificity. To investigate the role of this structural unit the benzene ring may be derivatized with various hydrophobic and hydrogen bond donor acceptor groups as represented by R Scheme 7 . This synthetic route is amenable for the proposed modifications. Modifications may be introduced at the front end of the synthetic scheme since many mono di and tri substituted o phenylenediamines 9 are readily available either through commercial sources or known procedures Ohmori 1997 .

The effects of substituting the sulfone moiety can be evaluated by introducing an amide group during the initial aryl substitution reaction by converting dichlororquinoxaline 4 to intermediate 12 using cyanoacetonitrile Scheme 8 . Cyclization with amine and acylation or sulfonylation would produce a nitro derivative 15. Reduction of the nitro group followed by acylation or sulfonylation would give functionally substituted quinoxaline 16.

SUMOylation inhibitor analogues described herein may be tested using various biochemical assays as described in the Examples herein to examine their efficacy and selectivity for SUMOylation. In addition NMR studies described in and elsewhere herein may be carried out in conjunction to investigate changes of the binding mode on the E1. SUMO E1 specific inhibitors with more potent enzymatic inhibitory effect than compound 1 or improved stability may be selected based on potency e.g. Kor ICvalues for further in vivo testing. in vivo testing will start with Tricyclic compound 1 described herein.

Investigation of the structural mechanism of inhibition. As discussed above tricyclic compounds described herein bind and compete for the ATP binding pocket. Using the binding epitope of the inhibitor derived from NMR saturation transfer difference STD studies the program HADDOCK de Vries et al. 2010 van Dijk et al. 2005 Dominguez et al. 2003 may be used to determine whether said inhibitor can fit into the ATP binding pocket based on guided docking calculations of the protein inhibitor complex. Further previously described methods Tatham et al. 2003 Wang Chen 2010 Wang et al. 2010 Want et al. 2009 Wang et al. 2007 Thatham et al. 2005 Tatham et a1.2003a Liu et al. 2002 Liu et al. 1999 may be used to determine whether the inhibitor binds to an allosteric site instead of or in addition to directly competing with ATP. A structural allosteric effect would likely affect the binding of other substrates SUMO and Ubc9 in addition to or instead of ATP.

Various forms of the E1 have been crystallized including the free enzyme E1 ATP complex E1 ATP SUMO complex E1 in complex with an ATP analogue and E1 in complex with a SUMO adenylate mimic Lois Lima 2005 Olsen et al. 2010 therefore existing crystallization conditions may be used initially to obtain crystals. Then the inhibitors may be soaked into the crystals. Additionally the E1 inhibitor complex may be co crystallized using one or more conditions identified by a crystallization robot that can screen for conditions that allow crystallization of a protein. Alternatively Nuclear Overhauser Effects NOEs between an inhibitor and SUMO E1 may be used to obtain the intermolecular distances between the protein and the inhibitor in solution as previously described Pellecchia et al. 2002 . In addition to Met methyl groups the methyl groups of Ile Leu and Val as may be labeled as previously described Religa Kay 2010 . The intermolecular distance constraints may then be used to determine structural calculations of the protein inhibitor complexes as described previously Wang et al. 2007 . NMR linewidths of the bound ligands and protein sidechains at the binding interface also provide information on the dynamics at the binding pocket.

Accurate estimation of binding affinities of protein ligand complexes is still a challenge in the computational field. Therefore medicinal chemistry efforts may be used in parallel with structural studies and rational design. The structural insights on the ligand binding pocket of E1 may be incorporated into the lead compound design. For example identification of hydrogen bonding donors or acceptors in the pocket are matched by incorporating complimentary hydrogen bond acceptor or donor groups in the ligand. The side of the ligand that does not form direct contacts with the enzyme is then derivatized to improve pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties.

The medicinal chemistry methods described herein in combination with binding mode and inhibition analysis provides structure activity relationship SAR information and an understanding of how the SUMO E1 enzyme is inhibited by small molecules. In addition the medicinal chemistry effort may identify additional inhibitors with higher potency and or higher in vivo stability than those already described. Given the important roles of SUMOylation in cancer development of neurodegenerative diseases and viral infection Sarge et al. 2009 as well as the lack of any inhibitors targeting SUMOylation enzymes the small molecular inhibitors of SUMO E1 described herein should have a significant impact on the treatment of these diseases as well as in biomedical research for determining the pathogenic pathways involved in the development of these life threatening diseases. Lead compounds may be used for preclinical and early phase clinical studies to examine how SUMOylation can be targeted for the development of innovative therapies for these life threatening diseases.

In some aspects an inhibitor may bind to more than one surface of the SUMO E1 as evidenced by NMR line width changes of the inhibitors with addition of the SUMO E1 Reibarkh et al. 2006 . In such cases structure determination may be carried out under the appropriate inhibitor E1 stoichiometry.

NMR saturation transfer difference STD experiments showed that quinoxaline 1 bound E1 in a reversible manner and competed with the binding of ATP. Using 80 M ATP and 2 M E1 in the presence of 0.4 mM Mg the STD of ATP was observed . Addition of 30 M quinoxaline 1 to the above sample resulted in a reduction in the STD of ATP by more than 60 and observation of a significant STD effect of the inhibitor indicating that the inhibitor competes efficiently with ATP with less than half the concentration of ATP. Following these results a more detailed competitive STD experiment was conducted . Previous studies indicate that the Kof ATP binding to E1 in the presence of Mg is approximately 0.2 M Tokgoz 2006 and thus based on the competitive STD data the inhibitor enzyme dissociation constant K was estimated to be approximately 180 nM using the established method Mayer 2001 .

To investigate whether quinoxaline 1 specifically inhibits SUMO E1 in cells the structurally similar inactive analog quinoxaline 2 was used as a control. Quinoxaline 1 or 2 was added to cell culture media at various concentrations for 18 hours after which SUMOylated proteins were detected using anti SUMO antibodies. Quinoxaline 1 inhibited SUMOylation in a dose dependent manner in colorectal cell lines HCT116 and HT29 as well as other cancer cell lines glioblastoma U373 . Importantly quinoxaline 2 did not exhibit any inhibitory effects even at 16 M a concentration at which quinoxaline 1 inhibited global SUMOylation by more than 80 percent. Thus quinoxaline 1 has potent and specific inhibitory effects in various cancer cell lines.

Quinoxaline 1 was added to cultures of various cancer cell lines for 4 hours after which cells were irradiated at 4 Gy. Forty eight hours after irradiation cell viability was measured by MTS assay. Addition of the inhibitor significantly enhanced the sensitivity of tested cancer cell lines to radiation . The inhibitor also induced some toxicity in selected cancer cell lines at a lower ICthan that which caused toxicity in immortalized human hepatocytes Fa2N 4 no toxicity was detected with concentrations up to 50 M . Quinoxaline 2 did not cause toxicity or demonstrated sensitization effects in any of the tested cell lines consistent with its lack of inhibitory effect to SUMOylation.

Evaluate SUMOylation inhibitors in cancer cell lines. Because the SUMO E1 enzyme is more crucial to survival of cells with certain genetic backgrounds Luo et al. 2009 lead compound 1 may be submitted for screening of a panel of 60 cancer cell lines at NIH to identify other genetic backgrounds in which the SUMO E1 is more critical to viability. The results may be further validated by siRNA knockdown and molecular biological studies.

The extent to which the SUMOylation inhibitors can enhance cancer cell sensitivity to DNA damaging chemotherapeutic drugs including doxorubicin 5 fluorouracil camptosar and eloxatin may be determined and is compared to that of chemotherapeutic drugs that do not induce DNA damage in colorectal cancer cell lines HT 29 HCT 116 and DLD1. Compounds with in vitro efficacy similar to or greater than that of compound 1 may be assessed for their effects on sensitizing colorectal cancer cells to radiation as described in MTS assay . Additional studies may be carried out with different combination of chemotherapeutic agents with radiation and with and without SUMO E1 inhibitor. In addition using compound 1 and inhibitors developed using the methods described in the Examples above more sensitive cytotoxicity assays may be carried out using DIMSCAN a semiautomatic fluorescence based digital image microscopy system that quantifies relative total viable cell numbers in tissue culture with high sensitivity and linearity over a range 4 logs of cytotoxicity assessment Keshelava et al. 2005 . Clonogenic assays may be performed to examine long term survival as previously described Li et al. 2010 . The toxicity of the lead inhibitors identified in the Examples above to normal cells may be tested using immortalized human hepatocytes Fa2N 4 cells to ensure that the lead compounds do not have high toxicity to normal cells.

To further elucidate the role of the SUMOylation inhibitors in sensitizing cancer cells to ionizing radiation compound 1 and additional lead compounds identified according to the methods described above may be analyzed to determine how they affect early events in the DNA damage response such as phosphorylation of histone H2AX and the kinases ATM ATR and DNA PKcs and recruitment of 53BP1 and BRCA1 to DNA damage sites that are critical for DNA DSB repair. Further the mechanism of how SUMOylation inhibitors inhibit the various pathways used for repair of DNA DSBs as described in the Examples above and in previous studies Li et al. 2010 . Whether the inhibitors induce apoptosis or inhibit cell cycle progression by fluorescence activated flow cytometry analyses FACS and annexin V staining which is an indicator of an early apoptotic stage and propidium iodide staining an indicator of plasma membrane permeability that develops at a later apoptotic stage may also be investigated. These studies may be used to elucidate the mechanism by which the inhibitors inhibit growth of cancer cells and enhance cancer cell sensitivity to CRT.

Compound 1 and the effective derivatives generated according to the methods described in the Examples above will be tested in cellular assays using colorectal cancer bearing xenograft models or primary cancer tissues from clinical cancer tissue samples. Mice are administered drugs by oral gavage intraperitoneal injection intravenous injection or osmotic pump methods. Tumor growth is monitored by animal body mass scoring and direct measurement of the size of tumors. To examine the effect of the inhibitors on enhancing sensitivity of xenograft tumors to radiation multiple fraction radiation may be delivered at 2.0 Gy per day for 5 consecutive days and the radiation beam will be focused only on the tumor. To examine the effect of the inhibitors on sensitization to chemotherapeutic drugs the drugs i.e. doxorubicin 5 fluorouracil camptosar or eloxatin that show a synergistic effect with SUMO E1 inhibitor in cellular studies should be given together with the SUMO E1 inhibitor. Mice injected with vehicle control or compound 2 or one of the candidate SUMOylation inhibitors will be compared. Along with these studies the concentration of the inhibitors in tumors can be determined over the same period of time to obtain pharmacokinetic data. SUMOylation levels in the tumor lysates will be analyzed at the same time to establish the direct link between inhibitor treatment and SUMOylation.

SUMO E1 inhibitors should sensitize CRT in these preclinical studies using animal models. Such results will establish a new paradigm in targeting SUMO E1 as a new cancer therapeutic strategy. In addition screening the panel of 60 cancer cell lines using the inhibitor may elucidate new genetic interactions of SUMO E1 with genes whose mutations cause cancer. It is not expected that these inhibitors would have significant toxicity to normal tissues because lead compound 1 did not cause significant toxicity to human hepatocytes even when used at concentrations up to 50 M .

Despite the Kof 1 being approximately 180 nM global SUMOylation was inhibited with M concentrations of the inhibitor. This discrepancy is likely due to 1 the long life spans of some SUMOylated proteins and 2 the high enzymatic activity of E1 and reversible inhibition by the compound so that a small fraction of active E1 can catalyze significant SUMOylation. This scenario also explains the low toxicity of the inhibitor to normal cells that is not as dependent on SUMOylation as some cancer cells Luo et al. 2009 .

VSV G pseudotyped pNL43LUCR E an HIV plasmid which has a luciferase gene inserted in the NEF position and with frameshift mutations in the ENV and VPR genes was used to test infectivity of HIV after treatment with SUMO inhibitors. This virus is competent for a single round of replication and allows for quantitative measurement of infectivity. HeLa cells were treated with the SUMO E1 inhibitor MLS0207587 for 2 hrs before pNL43LUCRE was introduced. Luciferase activity was collected after 48 hrs and compared to untreated cells. The lead SUMO inhibitor MLS 0207587 inhibited HIV infection in a dose dependent manner . This mechanism of this inhibition was due to the SUMO inhibitor preventing integration of the HIV viral genome to the host genome thereby preventing replication of HIV.

The references listed below and all referenced cited above are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

Lukacsovich Y. Z. Zhu E. Cattaneo P. P. Pandolfi L. M. Thompson and J. L. Marsh SUMO modification of Huntingtin and Huntington s disease pathology. 2004. 304 5667 p. 100 4.

