---

title: Witnessing documents
abstract: A server receives, from a first client device associated with a first user, a certification request including information associated with an electronic document, along with a representation of a credential associated with a second user. The server validates the representation of the credential associated with the second user. Responsive to validating the representation of the credential, the server attaches a badge to the electronic document, the badge corresponding to the credential and providing a certification that the second user has witnessed the electronic document. The server stores information corresponding to the electronic document with the attached badge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09166986&OS=09166986&RS=09166986
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09166986
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130715
---
This application claims the benefit of the priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 731 834 filed Nov. 30 2012 and entitled Witnessing Documents which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A server may be used to store files that are associated with user accounts. Users may access the files using applications running on their respective client devices.

An electronic document may be witnessed for example using credentials that are available on client devices. The credentials may be generated and or managed by a server application running on a server and communicated from the server to a client application executed on the client devices.

In one aspect a server receives from a first client device associated with a first user a certification request including information associated with an electronic document along with a representation of a credential associated with a second user. The server validates the representation of the credential associated with the second user. Responsive to validating the representation of the credential the server attaches a badge to the electronic document the badge corresponding to the credential and providing a certification that the second user has witnessed the electronic document. The server stores information corresponding to the electronic document with the attached badge.

Implementations may include one or more of the following. Receiving the certification request may comprise receiving at the server and from the first client device a copy of the electronic document for uploading to the server.

The electronic document may be stored at the server prior to receiving the certification request. The server may store the electronic document on behalf of the first user. The server may receive from the first client device an access request on behalf of the first user for accessing the electronic document. Responsive to receiving the access request the server may transmit a copy of the electronic document to the first client device.

The representation of the credential may be one of an optical machine readable representation an alphanumeric string a phrase or a sonic code. Validating the representation of the credential may comprise the server identifying the second user based on the representation of the credential. The server may determine whether the representation of the credential matches information stored at the server associated with the second user. Based on determining that the representation of the credential matches information stored at the server associated with the second user the server may transmit a query to a second client device associated with the second user the query seeking verification from the second user for certifying the electronic document. The server may receive from the second client device a response to the query. The server may determine whether the response provides verification from the second user for certifying the electronic document. Based on determining that the response provides verification from the second user for certifying the electronic document the server may attach the badge to the electronic document.

Validating the representation of the credential may comprise determining by the server whether the credential provides authorization to the second user for certifying the electronic document as a witness. Storing information corresponding to the electronic document with the attached badge may comprise the server storing the electronic document with the attached badge in association with at least one of an identifier for the electronic document an identifier for the first user an identifier for the second user and the representation of the credential. Storing information corresponding to the electronic document with the attached badge may comprise the server generating a message digest by hashing the document with the attached badge. The server may store the message digest.

The server may receive a request from a third client device for confirming integrity of the electronic document the request including a first message digest of the electronic document with the attached badge. The server may determine whether the first message digest is a match with a second message digest of the electronic document with the attached badge the second message digest generated by the server. Based on determining that the first message digest is a match with the second message digest the server may transmit a confirmation message to the third client device the confirmation message confirming the integrity of the electronic document.

The second message digest may be generated by the server responsive to receiving the request from the third client device. Confirming the integrity of the electronic document may include confirming that the second user has witnessed the electronic document. The third client device may be configured for receiving the electronic document with the attached badge from the first client device.

The server may receive a request from a third client device for confirming integrity of the electronic document the request including information associated with the electronic document and the representation of the credential. The server may identify the badge attached to the electronic document based on the information included in the request from the third client device. The server may transmit the electronic document along with the attached badge to the third client device. Confirming the integrity of the electronic document may include confirming that the second user has witnessed the electronic document.

Receiving the certification request from the first client device associated with the first user may comprise displaying by the first client device and on a first user interface running on the first client device the electronic document. Responsive to displaying the electronic document on the first user interface the first client device may receive the representation of the credential from a second client device associated with the second user.

Receiving the representation of the credential from the second client device may comprise receiving the representation of the credential through a user input on the first client device based on the representation of the credential being displayed on a second user interface running on the second client device. Alternatively receiving the representation of the credential from the second client device may comprise scanning by the first client device the representation of the credential based on the representation of the credential being displayed on the second user interface. Alternatively receiving the representation of the credential from the second client device may comprise receiving by the first client device and from the second client device a network transmission including the representation of the credential. The network transmission may be one of an ultrasonic transmission a near field communication NFC transmission or a wireless fidelity Wi Fi transmission.

In another aspect a server stores an electronic document associated with an account of a first user. The server receives from a first client device associated with the first user an access request for accessing the electronic document. Responsive to receiving the access request the server determines whether the first client device is associated with the account of the first user. Based on determining that the first client device is associated with the account of the first user the server transmits the electronic document to the first client device. The server receives from the first client device a certification request for certifying the electronic document as witnessed by a second user the certification request including a representation of a credential associated with the second user. The server determines whether the representation of the credential is associated with an account of the second user. Based on determining that the representation of the credential is associated with the account of the second user the server attaches a badge to the electronic document the badge corresponding to the credential and providing a certification that the second user has witnessed the electronic document. The server stores information corresponding to the electronic document with the attached badge.

Implementations of the above techniques include a method a computer program product and a system. The computer program product is suitably embodied in a non transitory machine readable medium and includes instructions executable by one or more processors. The instructions are configured to cause the one or more processors to perform the above described actions.

The system includes one or more processors and instructions embedded in a non transitory machine readable medium that are executable by the one or more processors. The instructions when executed are configured to cause the one or more processors to perform the above described actions.

The details of one or more aspects of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Services such as witnessing physical documents may be performed by persons such as a notary. A notary can review a physical version of the document and or the act of signing the document and then certify that the document and or the act of signing the document was witnessed by the notary. Typically the certification is in the form of a notary seal or badge that is imprinted on the physical version of the document along with a signature of the notary person.

Similar services for notarizing or witnessing electronic documents in which a physical version of the document may not be readily available may be challenging. In some instances notarizing or witnessing of electronic documents may be achieved using a client server system in which client devices communicate with a central computer server in the backend.

In this context an electronic document is a software file or multiple related software files that includes data and can be stored in electronic form in tangible storage media such as computer memory or hard drives. Generally the electronic document may be a textual document though other electronic formats may be possible such as a graphical document an audio file a video file or a multimedia file.

Evidence of the certification of an electronic document may be in the form of a badge that is embedded on to the electronic copy of the document for example a badge that is appended as an overlay to a representation of the electronic document . The badge may be uniquely tied to the identity of the person witnessing the document and readily verifiable as being uniquely tied to the identity of the person witnessing the document. For example the badge may be based on a credential linked to the identity of the person witnessing the document. In some implementations the document witnessing may be performed only by persons who are authorized by a central authority such as a credential authority to perform such functions. In such implementations the credentials may be linked specifically to the document witnessing functionality. The badge also may encode information pertaining to the authorization granted for performing the witness function.

As described in greater detail in the following sections a client server system for witnessing electronic documents may be implemented by a server application running on a centralized server that manages credentials for users. The server may be configured for creating and managing user accounts and generating and managing credentials that are tied to the user accounts. The server also may be configured for managing the witnessing of electronic documents and storing electronic documents that are certified as having been witnessed along with the associated badges.

The users may communicate with the server using instances of a client software application running on the client devices of the users. The client software application may be used to upload electronic documents to the server which the server associates with user accounts corresponding to the owners of the electronic documents.

The users may download credentials from the server on to their respective client devices using the client software application use the credentials for certifying that they have witnessed electronic documents that are presented to them and then the certified electronic documents may be uploaded to the server through the client software application. Alternatively the users may send instructions to the server to certify on their behalf documents that they have witnessed with the documents being already available locally at the server or uploaded to the server by the users.

Systems that generate distribute and process credentials for electronic document witnessing are described in the following sections. For the purposes of this discussion in the following a person witnessing an electronic document is referred to as a witness. The person who controls the electronic document that is witnessed is referred to interchangeably as document creator or document owner. The terms badge and certificate are used synonymously as are the terms server and server application and the terms client software application software application and client device. The functionality of witnessing a document is meant to include the functionality of certifying that a document has been witnessed and the terms witnessing a document and certifying a document are used synonymously. A document that has been certified as witnessed is referred to interchangeably as a witnessed electronic document or a certified electronic document.

Each of the pages and includes a page title identifying the content of the page. Each page also includes a username and a representation of a credential such as or . In addition page includes a timer such as .

In this context a credential may be taken to refer to an evidence of rights or entitlement to privileges that can be for example a token that may be used to prove identity to the server or to prove authorization to witness an electronic document share or access a file a badge to gain entrance to a location an identifier for membership in a group for example a graduate of a school or a professional certification a ticket for entry to an event a redeemable voucher a key that unlocks a lock for example for entry to a location etc.

Credentials can be represented in various forms some of which are shown on the pages and . In some implementations a credential may be a numeric value for example as shown by on the page . In some implementations a credential may be an alphanumeric value of which the credential may be one example. For example a credential may be one of a binary decimal octal or hexadecimal value a string of letters and digits or some other suitable representation.

In some implementations a credential may be time sensitive. Associated with each credential may be a validity time period during which the credential is valid for example to validate identity witness documents or for some other suitable function . A transaction that is attempted with a credential outside its validity time period may be rejected as associated with an invalid credential. Accordingly page includes a timer indicating the time remaining in the validity time period of the credential . As shown by the example the credential will expire in 3 minutes and 28 seconds.

In some implementations a credential may be represented by an optical machine readable representation such as a bar code or a quick response QR code. For example page shows a credential that is represented by a QR code. The credential or some other suitable optical machine readable representation may be an arrangement of graphical elements that encode alphanumeric data where the elements are arranged so that the data can be read by an optical scanner. In some implementations the optical machine readable representations may encode credential identifiers and user identifiers. In other implementations the optical machine readable representations may encode other identifiers that are linked to or otherwise associated with credential identifiers and or user identifiers.

In some implementations a credential may be represented by sound waves for example ultrasonic sound waves . For example the credential may be represented by an audio clip that is transferred from one client device by transmission through speakers coupled to the client device. The page shows an indicator that the client device is outputting a representation of a credential for example a numeric value as an audio signal from a speaker of the client device. The audio signal may be transferred from the client device to another client device using ultrasonic sound waves. The display also includes the timer indicating the time remaining until the numeric representation for the credential expires for example 3 minutes and 28 seconds .

In addition to displaying the representations of the credentials each page or includes a title that identifies the page as displaying a credential that may be used for certifying electronic documents. Each page or also includes a username that identifies the user corresponding to the user account with which the credentials and are associated.

In some implementations the client device on which the pages and are displayed may be a mobile device such as a smartphone a tablet computer or a music player. In such implementations the software application may be a mobile application and the pages and may be suitably formatted for presentation on the display of the mobile device. In other implementations the client device may be a desktop or laptop computer. In some such implementations the software application may be a conventional software application and the pages and may be suitably formatted for presentation on the display of the desktop or laptop computer.

In some implementations the representation of the credential or may be generated by the server based on a request from the client device used by the witness. For example the witness may launch the client software application on his her client device and send a request for a credential to the server from the software application. Alternatively upon launching the client software application a request may be automatically sent from the client device to the server.

Based on the request from the witness client device the server may generate a representation of a credential that is to be used for document witnessing. The generated credential representation is linked to the user account at the server for the witness and the user account may be identified based on the credential. The user account may include a badge that is associated with the witness. When an electronic document is witnessed the badge may be embedded on to or otherwise associated with the electronic document as proof of the certification.

Upon generating the representation of the credential the server transmits the representation of the credential to the witness device. The software application on the witness client device may then present the representation of the credential on the display of the device using the GUI of the software application as shown in pages and .

In some implementations the software application on the client device of the witness may be configured to present different types of representations of the same credential such as any of and . In such implementations the client device may request the specific type of credential representation while sending the request for the credential representation to the server. The request from the client device may be based on a preference that is entered by the witness on the client device.

However in some other implementations the software application on the witness client device may be configured to present credential representations of a specific type such as one of or . In such implementations the witness may not be asked to select the type of credential representation requested. Instead the specific type of the credential representation may be preconfigured in the software application and automatically sent to the server while sending the request for the credential representation.

In some implementations the credential representation or or data and or logic sufficient to enable generation of the credential representation may be previously stored in association with the software application executed on the client device used by the witness. In such implementations when the witness launches the client software application on his her client device the credential representation may be retrieved from local storage of the client device and presented on the display of the device using the GUI of the software application. In such cases a request for a credential representation may not be sent to the server from the software application.

Once a credential representation is available to the witness client device the witness may transfer the credential representation to the client device of the document owner. In some implementations the software application itself may provide an in built option to transfer the credential to an instance of the software application running on the client device of the document owner. In other implementations the witness can transfer the credential to the document owner using a mechanism that is distinct from the software application. For example the witness may transmit the credential by email or short message service SMS . In some instances the witness may simply read out the credential to the document owner or the document owner may see the credential on the witness client device for example when the witness and the document owner are in close physical proximity. In such implementations the document owner may enter the witness credential representation on his or her client device by typing in the alphanumeric credential or scanning the QR code or receive the credential by ultrasonic transmission or near field communications NFC .

Each of the pages and includes a page title identifying the type or content of the page. Each page also includes a credential input mechanism such as or and associated instructions or . Input mechanism includes a keypad output field and a control button

In implementations where the witness credential representation is alphanumeric the document owner may enter the credential representation onto his or her client device using the page . The page provides an input mechanism for the document owner to enter the witness credential representation. The input mechanism includes an interactive input mechanism such as keypad and an output field where the characters entered by the recipient using the keypad are displayed as they are entered. The characters displayed in the field correspond to the witness credential representation that is received by the document owner from the witness. For example the characters may correspond to the witness credential representation shown on page on the client device of the witness.

Input mechanism also includes a control button for selecting between a short for example 4 character and long for example 8 character alphanumeric credential representation. In addition to the input mechanism the page includes instructions that explain to the document owner what is to be done.

In the example shown by page the witness credential representation is an 8 digit numeric code as displayed by and the corresponding keypad is a numeric keypad. However in other implementations the witness credential representation may be an alphanumeric string or a phrase. In such implementations the keypad may be an alphanumeric keypad and the output field may display a string of letters and digits of a length that may be different from the length of the numeric code shown by the example. In addition the control button may not be present in such cases.

In implementations where the witness credential representation is an optical machine readable representation such as QR code the document owner may enter the credential representation onto his or her client device using the page . The page provides an input mechanism for the document owner to enter the witness credential representation along with instructions that explain what is to be done. The input mechanism may be a reticle corresponding to a field of view from a camera that is operatively coupled to the client device of the document owner. The reticle can be used by the document owner to assist in scanning from the client device of the witness the witness credential representation that is a QR code such as credential representation shown on page .

In implementations where the witness credential representation is an audio clip that is transferred from the witness device to the client device of the document owner as an audio signal for example ultrasonic sound waves page may be presented on the display of the device of the document owner providing instructions for receiving the credential representation. The page includes a visual indication of the input mechanism and instructions that provide cues to the document owner on how to enter the credential representation into his or her device for example To enter a credential place phones in close proximity. The information will be transferred automatically. . As described previously the representation for the witness credential may be communicated from the witness device to the document owner device via ultrasonic waves for example waves having frequencies greater than 20 kHz .

Once the document owner has successfully received the witness credential representation the document owner may transfer the credential representation to the server through his or her client device along with an electronic copy of or a reference to the document that is to be witnessed. In some implementations the electronic document may already be available to the server for example present in storage local to the server. The electronic document may have been present in the server s local storage before any transaction related to witnessing the electronic document is executed by the server or the client devices of the witness or the document owner. Alternatively the document owner may have uploaded the electronic document or sent information associated with the electronic document as appropriate to initiate the transactions for witnessing the electronic document prior to the server generating the credential representation for the witness. In such implementations the document owner may simply send information identifying the electronic document that facilitates the locating of the electronic document in the server s local storage by the server.

When the server receives the witness credential representation from the document owner the server identifies the witness based on the received credential representation. After identifying the witness the server retrieves the witness badge for example from the user account associated with the witness and embeds the badge into or otherwise associates the badge with the document. Thereafter the electronic document bears indicia of having been witnessed.

The page includes a page title a representation of an electronic document that is embedded with a representation of a badge and additional information about the certified document. The title identifies the content of the page . In the example shown the title identifies the page as displaying a certified document which is a representation of an electronic document with an embedded badge indicating that the electronic document has been witnessed by the holder of the badge.

The representation of the electronic document may be a miniature graphical representation a thumbnail of the electronic document. However for large displays the representation may be a copy of the electronic document instead of a thumbnail with the copy being scaled to fit the dimensions of the display. In some implementations the representation may show only a portion of the electronic document such as a thumbnail of the first page of a textual document. In some implementations the user may be able to scroll through multiple pages of the electronic document using the representation such that based on the user input thumbnails or scaled copies of consecutive pages may be shown in the representation .

The representation of the badge is an electronic seal that is tied to the identity of the person who acted as a witness in certifying the electronic document . The representation of the badge may be associated with the user account of the witness that is maintained by the server and may include encoded information that enables the server to readily identify the associated user account. The representation of the badge may be tamper proof such that any unauthorized attempt to modify the information encoded in the badge is identified by the server. In some implementations a user account may have multiple badges associated with the account and different badges may be configured for different uses. For example a first badge may be used for witnessing documents a second badge may be used only for identity verification while a third badge may be used for sharing files electronically.

As shown in the page the representation of the badge may be an optical machine readable representation such as a QR code. However in other implementations the badge may be in some other suitable format. For example the badge may include an alphanumeric string of characters. Alternatively the badge may include additional information about the witness. For example the badge may include a miniaturized representation of a photograph of the witness or a name of the witness or some other suitable identifying information or both. In some implementations the badge may state something to the effect of the document has been witnessed by where is information identifying the witness such as his or her user name.

The information identifies the user who owns the electronic document and also identifies the user who witnessed the document. The information facilitates the easy identification of the document owner and the witness by a third party user who may have received the certified electronic document. In some implementations the information may not be present. In such implementations the third party user may obtain equivalent information about the certified document by contacting the server.

The system includes client devices and that are operated by users and respectively. Client devices and communicate with each other and with a server using network connections and respectively over a network . The pages and are displayed on client device page is displayed on client device and page is displayed on client device .

Each client device or may be for example a mobile device such as a cellular phone a smartphone a tablet computer a notebook or laptop computer an e book reader or a music player. Alternatively each client device or may be a desktop computer or any other appropriate portable or stationary computing device. Each client device or may include one or more processors configured to execute instructions stored by a computer readable medium for performing various client operations such as input output communication data processing software execution and the like. For example the user may be a document owner and the associated client device may execute the software application for document witnessing that provides a GUI displaying the pages and and on a display coupled to the client device. User may be a witness for an electronic document owned by user and client device associated with user may execute the software application for document witnessing that provides a GUI displaying the pages and on a display coupled to the client device. User may be a third party user who receives the certified electronic document from the document owner and device associated with user may execute the software application for document witnessing that provides a GUI displaying the page on a display coupled to the client device.

The displays coupled to the client devices and may be implemented as proximity sensitive displays for example a touch screen such that each user and may enter information by touching or hovering a control object for example a finger or stylus over the respective display. The software application may be written in any suitable programming language for example C Objective C C Java Perl HTML etc.

The network may include a circuit switched data network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry data for example Internet Protocol IP based or asynchronous transfer mode ATM based networks including wired or wireless networks. The network may include the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless networks for example IEEE 802.11 networks Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL Third Generation 3G or Fourth Generation 4G mobile telecommunications networks a wired Ethernet network a private network such as an intranet radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data or any appropriate combination of such networks.

The network may be configured to handle secure traffic such as secure hypertext transfer protocol traffic HTTPS or virtual private networks VPN . In some implementations the connections and may be secure connections such as using VPN or HTTPS. However in other implementations the connections may be unsecured connections.

The communications from the client devices may be authenticated. For example in cases where the client devices and are mobile devices and instances of a mobile application running on the devices are used to communicate with each other and with the server the messages may be signed by the instances of the mobile application to indicate that the messages are generated by the mobile application. In addition or as an alternative the messages may be signed by hardware on the client devices and such as using the physical addresses of the respective network interfaces through which the communications are transferred. By signing the messages in such manner the messages may be authenticated as coming from the client devices or and or from the mobile application running on the client devices or respectively.

The server may be a single server or it may represent a collection of servers such as a server farm or another server arrangement. In either implementation the server includes one or more processors configured to execute instructions stored by a computer readable medium for performing various server operations such as executing database applications for managing user accounts badges and credentials associated with users of client devices storing electronic documents corresponding to the user accounts and running client server applications for communicating with the software applications on the client devices and for generating credentials for witnessing electronic documents and sharing certified electronic documents between the devices.

In some implementations the server may function as a credential authority or be coupled to a credential authority. In such implementations the server may be configured to validate a representation of a credential presented by any one of users or on his her respective client device or by comparing the user presented credential representation with valid representations for the credential that are locally available to the server . The server may validate the representation of a credential presented by user or as a security mechanism to ensure that a user who wishes to have an electronic document certified as the document owner or a user who wishes to act as a witness is authorized to do so. In addition the server may generate badges that uniquely represent the identities of individual users and associate those badges with the corresponding user accounts. As described previously a badge may be used as proof of witnessing for a certified electronic document.

In operation the server manages and stores one or more credentials and badges associated with appropriate user accounts. The server also stores electronic documents that are uploaded to the server. The electronic documents may include both certified electronic documents and documents without certification. The electronic documents may be stored such that they are linked with the user accounts of the document owners. The server can be any suitable computer or collection of computers executing software capable of managing distributing and validating credentials and badges for users and certified electronic documents via the network as described herein.

Credentials badges user accounts and electronic documents can be stored in a database for example MySQL PostgreSQL MS SQL Server MongoDB or other suitable data structure that can be accessed by the server . In some implementations the server may access the stored credentials and or user accounts via web services such as representational state transfer REST style services.

In some implementations the server may present an interface so that users such as or can create user accounts. For example the server may present an interactive web interface via a web browser that is executed on computing devices associated with the users and . The computing devices may be the client devices and or other suitable machines used by users or . Alternatively applications on the server may be directly accessible via a GUI provided by a dedicated software application running on the computing devices or an application executed on a mobile device such as the previously described client software application running on client devices or .

The user accounts may be stored in a table or collection of tables in a database or in any other suitable data structure accessible by the server . The user accounts may include a variety of information such as user name user identifier for example a number or character string that uniquely identifies a user and the address es of one or more client devices owned by or otherwise associated with the user.

In some implementations the user accounts may be created by an entity that is different from the users linked to the user accounts. For example a company for example Company A may create user accounts for its employees and store the user accounts in the server that is managed by Company A. The entity also may be the credential authority that generates and manages credentials for the user accounts. For example Company A may generate and manage credentials and badges for the user accounts of its employees the employees may witness electronic document and share electronic documents using badges that are based on credentials generated by the Company A with the electronic documents and the linked credentials being managed by the server that is operated by company A and or that provides a service to Company A.

In some implementations the user accounts may include group accounts which may be a collection of individual user accounts that may perform certain functions using a common credential. Certain individual users may be identified as belonging to a group by linking an entry for the corresponding user account to an entry for the group account for example by use of a linking table. The group accounts may include a variety of information such as a group name group identifier for example a number or character string that uniquely identifies a group and a description of the group.

In addition or as an alternative to the creation of user accounts and group accounts by entities like a company or some other suitable institution user accounts and group accounts may be created at the request of potential users through a web based or other interface or through any other suitable means such as sending email or SMS to the users. In some implementations the potential users may be able to create user accounts by use of an application running on a client device such as the software application running on client devices and or .

Once user accounts have been created credentials may be generated by the server or the credential authority that is linked to the server the server and the associated credential authority are referred to interchangeably as the server for associating with the user accounts and to be user for witnessing electronic documents by the users corresponding to the user accounts. For example in a manner similar to that previously described user may wish to have an electronic document witnessed by user . A copy of the electronic document may be stored at the server a priori or the user may upload a copy of the electronic document to the server from his or her client device to initiate the witnessing of the electronic document.

The user uses the software application running on the client device to request the server to generate a representation of a credential that can be used to witness the desired electronic document. The users may interact with the server through a web interface presented by the server via web browsers running on the client devices or through the software application providing a GUI that presents the page on the client device . In some implementations the user may have pre authorization from the server to provide witnessing services for electronic documents. In such implementations a representation of a credential that can be used for witnessing may be already stored on the client device for example based on some prior transaction between the client device and the server . In other implementations the user may request authorization from the server to provide witnessing services for electronic documents as part of sending the request to generate a representation of a credential that can be used to witness the desired electronic document.

Based on the request from the user the server generates a representation of a credential for user that can be used to witness user s electronic document. The server links the generated credential representation to the user account associated with user . In addition in some implementations the server also may link the credential representation with user s electronic document that is to be witnessed using the generated credential. This may be the case for example in implementations where the server generates a different credential representation for every electronic document that is to be witnessed. Therefore in such implementations there may exist a one to one correspondence between a certified electronic document and the credential representation that is used to witness the electronic document. In either case the server transmits the generated credential representation to the client device .

The credential representation is presented to the user using page on the display of the client device . The page may be similar to any of the pages and depending on the type of the credential. For example as shown the credential representation may be a QR code and the page may be similar to the page .

When the user receives the credential representation from the server the user may send the credential representation to the client device associated with the document owner . The user may transmit the credential representation as part of witnessing a copy of the electronic document using any of the mechanisms described previously. The user may witness the electronic document on the client device . Alternatively the user may transfer a copy of the electronic document to the client device for witnessing by the user .

The user may obtain the credential representation from the user using any of the mechanisms described previously. For example as shown when the credential is a QR code the user may scan the credential representation with his or her client device using the page which may be similar to the page .

Once the document is witnessed by the user and the credential representation is available to the user on his her client device the user may send the credential representation to the server so that the server may generate a certified copy of the electronic document for example embedded with a badge of the user based on the credential representation. In alternative implementations the software application on the client device may be configured to generate the certified copy of the electronic document locally without sending the credential representation to the server .

Referring to the implementation where the server generates the certified copy of the electronic document the client device may upload the electronic document or some other information associated with the electronic document along with sending the credential representation such that the server may identify which electronic document is being certified using the credential. However in implementations where the credential is uniquely associated with an electronic document as described previously the client device may not send information associated with the electronic document. In such implementations the server may identify the electronic document from the information encoded in the credential representation that is uploaded by the client device .

When the server receives the credential representation from the client device the server identifies the credential representation based on the information encoded in the credential representation. For example the server determines that the credential is associated with user . In addition in implementations where there exists a bijection between the credential and the electronic document the server may identify the electronic document based on the information encoded in the credential.

The act of receiving a credential representation associated with user from client device of user may imply to the server that the user is witnessing the electronic document indicated by the message from client device that transmitted the credential representation to the server . However in some implementations the server may send a message to the client device to receive confirmation from user that the user is indeed witnessing the particular electronic document. The confirmation received from the client device may be a voice confirmation for example an audio clip of the user saying Yes. Alternatively or additionally the confirmation received from the client device may be a fingerprint of the user .

Additionally in some implementations the server may authenticate the message that is received from client device to confirm that the credential representation and the information corresponding to the electronic document are uploaded by the client device and or the user that is the owner of the electronic document being witnessed.

When the server has determined the electronic document that is to be witnessed and optionally has confirmed that the user intends to witness the particular electronic document the server embeds a badge associated with the user in the electronic document. In some implementations the server may include a representation of the confirmation received from the client device in the certified electronic document. For example the server may append the voice confirmation or the fingerprint of the user with the badge and then embed the badge within the electronic document. Including such biometric indicators may enable two factor authentication for witnessing electronic documents which may be useful in providing an additional level of security.

In some implementations the certified electronic document also may be digitally signed by or on behalf of the user witnessing the document. In such implementations a digital signature may be generated by generating a digest of the certified electronic document using a suitable cryptographic hashing algorithm and encrypting the digest using a private key belonging to the witness. The digital signature then may be appended to the document. The digital signature may be based on public key infrastructure PKI such as Digital Signature Algorithm DSA .

The certified electronic document may be signed by the server acting as a proxy for the witness. For example the server may store private keys of all the users and use the private key of user to sign the certified electronic document for example after generating a digest in the manner described above. The digital signature on the certified electronic document may act as authentication that the certified electronic document was witnessed by the user whose badge is embedded within or otherwise associated with the electronic document. A third party who knows the public key of the document witness may verify the signature on the certified electronic document and therefore be assured that the electronic document was witnessed by the user identified by the embedded badge.

Once the electronic document is certified the server stores the certified electronic document such that it is linked to the account of the user . In some implementations the server also may store the badge with the certified electronic document or store a link to the badge for example that may be present in the account of the user . In addition or as an alternative to storing the certified electronic document the server may generate a digest of the certified electronic document with the embedded badge using a suitable cryptographic hashing algorithm and store the digest in local storage associated with the user account corresponding to user . The server also transmits a copy of the certified electronic document to the client device which may then present the certified electronic document to the user using the page .

Once the certified electronic document is available on the client device the user may share the certified electronic document with other users. For example the user may transmit a copy of the certified electronic document from the client device to the client device associated with user . The software application running on the client device may present the copy of the certified electronic document on the display of the client device . A representation of the certified electronic document may be viewable on the client device for example as shown by the page .

Subsequently the user may wish to verify that the copy of the certified electronic document is indeed witnessed by the user . Accordingly the user may send a request to the server for verification through the client device . As part of the request the client device may send the copy of the certified electronic document to the server . Alternatively the client device may generate a digest of the certified electronic document and send the hash as part of the request. The digest may be generated using the same cryptographic hashing algorithm as used by the server .

Upon receiving the request from the client device the server identifies the document that is to be verified based on information included in the request. The server then locates the certified electronic document in its local storage and compares the certified electronic document with the information sent by the client device . In some implementations the server compares the locally stored digest of the certified electronic document with a digest of the electronic document that is based on the request. As described previously the latter may be sent by the client device as part of the request or alternatively the server may generate a digest of the copy of the electronic document that is received along with the request from the client device .

If the server determines that the two documents or the two digests match for example if the server determines that the two documents are cryptographically identical the server sends a notification to the client device confirming that the copy of the certified electronic document shown by the page has been witnessed by the user . On the other hand if the two documents or the two digests do not match then the server may send an error notification to the client device indicating that the copy of the certified electronic document shown by the page cannot be verified as having been witnessed by the user .

The system may be used with any file management platform to enable witnessing of electronic documents using credentials and or other suitable codes. The file management platform may have application programming interfaces APIs that can be used by the system to link the file management platform with the credential generation and document witnessing functionality provided by the system .

The messages described below may be transmitted via any suitable protocol for example hypertext transfer protocol HTTP secure HTTP HTTPS or SMS. Additionally these example messages should not be considered limiting as any suitable mechanism for performing the functions described could be used and the messages could be sent or received in any suitable sequence.

In the message flow initially the client device transmits a request message to the server for initiating the document witnessing process. As part of the request the client device may upload the electronic document that is to be witnessed or send some suitable information to the server such that the server may identify the electronic document present in its local storage. The message also may include information indicating that the electronic document is to be witnessed by the user .

In some implementations when the client device uploads the electronic document to the server the client device digitally signs the electronic document using a private key of the user of the client device . In such cases if the server has the sender client device s public key the server can verify that the sender purporting to be the client device is indeed the client device . In some implementations the signature on the electronic document may be based on public key infrastructure PKI such as Digital Signature Algorithm DSA .

In addition to sending the request message to the server or as an alternative to sending the request message to the server the client device transmits a message to the client device requesting the user for a credential for witnessing the electronic document. In some implementations the user may have one or more credentials locally stored on the client device prior to receiving the message . For example the server may have generated credentials for the user and transmitted them to the client device at a time prior to the initiation of the message flow .

In some other implementations the user may not have credentials pre stored on the client device . In such implementations the client device sends a credential request message to the server upon receiving the message from the client device .

The server generates one or more credentials that the user may use for witnessing electronic documents and sends the credentials to the client device in a message .

Once one or more credentials are locally available at the client device the user sends a representation of a credential to the user as part of witnessing the electronic document. The credential representation may be electronically transmitted from the client device to the client device by message . Alternatively the credential representation may be shown to the user who then inputs the credential representation to the client device . For example the user may show an alphanumeric credential code to the user who may then type the credential code into his her device in a manner similar to that shown by page . Additionally or alternatively the user may use client device to scan in the user s QR code or the client device may receive the credential representation from the client device via ultrasonic transmission or NFC.

Upon receiving the credential representation the client device transmits a message to the server that includes the credential representation. In addition the message may include a copy of the electronic document or information identifying the electronic document that is to be witnessed.

Upon receiving the message the server identifies the witness that is user based on information encoded in the credential representation that is included in the message . The server also identifies the electronic document based on the message . In some implementations the server verifies that the credential representation is valid. For example in cases where the credential representation is time sensitive the server may verify whether the validity period of the credential representation has expired. Additionally or alternatively the server also may verify whether the credential representation is authentic for example whether the credential representation corresponds to a user of the application whether the credential representation was indeed generated by the server whether the credential representation has been tampered since it was created etc. . In some implementations the server also confirms for example by communicating with user that the user is witnessing the electronic document that is identified based on the message .

Once the credential has been verified the server certifies the electronic document for example by embedding a badge associated with user within the electronic document or by otherwise associating a badge association with user with the electronic document . The server then stores the certified electronic document in local storage such that the certified electronic document is associated with the user account of user . As described previously in some implementations the server may generate a digest of the certified electronic document with the embedded badge using a suitable cryptographic hashing algorithm and store the digest in local storage such that the digest is associated with the user account corresponding to user .

The server then transmits a copy of the certified electronic document to the client device in message . The client device may then present the certified electronic document to the user for example using the page .

Once the electronic document has been certified the user may share the certified electronic document with other users for example user . The user may transmit a message which includes a copy of the certified electronic document from the client device to the client device associated with user .

Subsequently the user may view the copy of the certified electronic document on the display of the client device for example using page that is presented by the GUI of the software application running on the client device . The user also may verify the authenticity of the copy of the certified electronic document for example by communicating with the server as described previously.

In some implementations the user may verify the authenticity of the copy of the certified electronic document locally on the client device . In such implementations the client device obtains the digest of the certified electronic document that is stored at the server . The client device generates a digest of the certified electronic document locally using the same cryptographic hashing algorithm as used by the server . Then the client device compares the digest received from the server with the locally generated digest to determine that the copy of the certified electronic document has not been changed since it was witnessed by the user .

The process starts when the server receives an electronic document from a first client device . The electronic document may be a document that is to be witnessed and the first client device may be the document owner or some entity that controls the electronic document. As part of receiving the electronic document the server also may receive information corresponding to the user who is to act as witness for the electronic document along with information corresponding to a second client device associated with the user acting as the witness. For example the client device may be the first client device and the client device may be the second client device. The server may receive from the client device the request message which may include the electronic document that is to be witnessed and information indicating that the electronic document is to be witnessed by the user .

The server stores the electronic document such that the electronic document is linked to the user account associated with the first client device .

Then the server transmits a credential to the second client device . The credential may be generated once the request from the first client device is verified. Alternatively the credential may have been previously generated for the user account associated with the second client device.

Subsequently the server receives a document certification request from the first client device with a representation of the credential associated with the second client device . For example the server receives the message from the client device that includes the representation of the credential generated for the user . In addition the message may include a copy of the electronic document or information identifying the electronic document that is to be witnessed.

The server determines whether the credential is valid . For example upon receiving the message the server verifies whether the credential is valid. In implementations where the credential representation is time sensitive the server may verify whether the validity period of the credential representation has expired. Additionally or alternatively the server also may verify whether the credential representation is authentic. In some implementations the server also verifies that the user is intending to witness the electronic document that is identified based on the message .

If the server determines that the credential is not valid the server denies the request . For example after receiving the credential representation from the server the user may have delayed in sending the credential representation to the user . Alternatively the user may have delayed in sending the document certification request to the server such that the time window for the credential has expired. As another example the server determines that the credential has been tampered with since it was generated or the user denies based on a query from the server that the user intended to witness the electronic document indicated in the document certification request. In any such event the server refuses to certify the electronic document. In some implementations the server sends an error notification to the client device indicating that the electronic document cannot be witnessed using the credential presented in the document certification request.

On the other hand if the server determines that the credential is valid the server certifies the electronic document and transmits the certified electronic document to the first client device . For example if the credential is verified the server certifies the electronic document associated with user by embedding a badge associated with user within the electronic document or by otherwise associating a badge corresponding to the user with the electronic document . The server then stores the certified electronic document in local storage such that the certified electronic document is associated with user account of user . As described previously in some implementations the server may generate and store a digest of the certified electronic document linked to the user account corresponding to user . The server then transmits a copy of the certified electronic document to the client device for example in message .

Subsequently the server receives a request from a third client device for verifying whether the electronic document is witnessed . For example the server may receive a request from the user via the client device seeking to verify the authenticity of the copy of the certified electronic document that is available on the client device .

The server then verifies using stored information whether the document is witnessed . For example upon receiving the request from the client device the server compares the locally stored digest of the certified electronic document with a digest that is based on the information included in the request.

The server then sends the verification result to the third client device . For example upon comparing the two digests the server may determine that the digests match. Then the server may send a notification to the client device confirming that the copy of the certified electronic document available on the client device has been witnessed by the user . On the other hand if the server determines that the two digests do not match then the server may send an error notification to the client device indicating that the copy of the certified electronic document available on the client device cannot be verified as having been witnessed by the user .

As described above an electronic document may be witnessed and a verifiable certified copy of the electronic document may be disseminated to various users using the system . In some implementations upon sending the confirmation to the third client device the server also may send a notification to the first client device informing the document owner that the certified electronic document was successfully verified by the recipient.

Several applications are possible based on the subject matter described above. For example electronic documents can be witnessed using software applications running on client devices that can communicate with a credential management system such as that provided by the server . In addition a copy of the certified electronic document can be verified by another client device by communicating with the credential management system. The witnessing of the electronic document may be used to provide an added layer of security in verifying the authenticity of electronic documents. The witness functionality may be limited within certain groups of users such as employees of a company.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include for example a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as a network described above. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

