---

title: Communicating with residential electrical devices via a vehicle telematics unit
abstract: A method of communicating with residential electrical devices using a vehicle telematics unit includes receiving information identifying a residential electrical device to control; displaying in a vehicle one or more controlled features of the identified residential electrical device; receiving from a vehicle occupant a selection of the displayed controlled features of the residential electrical device; sending an instruction from the vehicle telematics unit to the residential electrical device via a wireless carrier system in response to the received selection; and controlling the residential electrical device using the sent instruction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495866&OS=09495866&RS=09495866
owner: General Motors LLC
number: 09495866
owner_city: Detroit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This invention was made with government support under Award DE EE0002628 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to vehicle telematics units and more particularly to communicating with residential electrical devices using a vehicle telematics unit.

Vehicles are frequently equipped with vehicle telematics units which can provide a wide range of communications and vehicle monitoring services. The vehicle telematics units can place cellular calls from the vehicle as well as monitor vehicle function for trouble both at the vehicle and as part of a vehicle telematics service. Owners of vehicles having vehicle telematics units also frequently live at a residence or home that includes a number of electrical or electro mechanical devices such as HVAC indoor outdoor lighting and personal computers that rely on user settings and or input to function optimally. Before leaving the residence a vehicle owner can adjust the settings of the electrical or electro mechanical devices so that they operate efficiently while the owner is away from the residence. However after the vehicle owner establishes the user settings the environment in which the residence exists may change and those settings may no longer be optimal. Thus it may be helpful if the user settings of these electrical or electro mechanical devices could be altered while the vehicle owner is away from the residence.

According to an embodiment there is provided a method of communicating with residential electrical devices using a vehicle telematics unit. The method includes receiving information identifying a residential electrical device to control displaying in a vehicle one or more controlled features of the identified residential electrical device receiving from a vehicle occupant a selection of the displayed controlled features of the residential electrical device sending an instruction or command from the vehicle telematics unit to the residential electrical device in response to the received selection and controlling the residential electrical device using the sent instruction.

According to another embodiment there is provided a method of communicating with residential electrical devices using a vehicle telematics unit. The method includes receiving information identifying a residential electrical device to control linking the identified residential electrical device to a boundary distance measured from a residence determining that the vehicle telematics unit has moved within or beyond the boundary distance from the residence and sending a command from the vehicle telematics unit to the residential electrical device in response to the determination.

According to yet another embodiment there is provided a method of communicating with residential electrical devices using a vehicle telematics unit. The method includes linking the vehicle telematics unit with a residential electrical device controlled by a vehicle owner monitoring for messages at the vehicle telematics unit sent from the residential electrical device in response to activity at a residence and receiving a residence status message in response to activity at the residence while the vehicle is located away from the residence.

The method described below communicates information between a vehicle telematics unit and one or more residential electrical devices located at a residence. These communications can be initiated by either the vehicle telematics unit or the residence and carry a wide variety of information that relates to residence activity or commanding residential electrical devices. For instance residential electrical devices can include electrical or electro mechanical devices used in and around the residence. The residential electrical devices can send and receive messages to from the vehicle via a wireless carrier system and land network. Also the vehicle can send commands to the residential electrical devices via the wireless carrier system and land network. The residential electrical devices include motion detectors for home security systems thermostats for residence HVAC and personal computers PCs used at the residence. The communications between the vehicle and the residential electrical devices can raise or lower interior temperatures of the residence activate a home security system after the vehicle has left the residence alert vehicle occupants to people inside the residence or convey notes between an individual at the residence and a vehicle occupant in the vehicle to name a few.

With reference to there is shown an operating environment that comprises a mobile vehicle communications system and that can be used to implement the method disclosed herein. Communications system generally includes a vehicle one or more wireless carrier systems a land communications network a computer and a call center . It should be understood that the disclosed method can be used with any number of different systems and is not specifically limited to the operating environment shown here. Also the architecture construction setup and operation of the system and its individual components are generally known in the art. Thus the following paragraphs simply provide a brief overview of one such communications system however other systems not shown here could employ the disclosed method as well.

Vehicle is depicted in the illustrated embodiment as a passenger car but it should be appreciated that any other vehicle including motorcycles trucks sports utility vehicles SUVs recreational vehicles RVs marine vessels aircraft etc. can also be used. Some of the vehicle electronics is shown generally in and includes a telematics unit a microphone one or more pushbuttons or other control inputs an audio system a visual display and a GPS module as well as a number of vehicle system modules VSMs . Some of these devices can be connected directly to the telematics unit such as for example the microphone and pushbutton s whereas others are indirectly connected using one or more network connections such as a communications bus or an entertainment bus . Examples of suitable network connections include a controller area network CAN a media oriented system transfer MOST a local interconnection network LIN a local area network LAN and other appropriate connections such as Ethernet or others that conform with known ISO SAE and IEEE standards and specifications to name but a few.

Telematics unit can be an OEM installed embedded or aftermarket device that is installed in the vehicle and that enables wireless voice and or data communication over wireless carrier system and via wireless networking. This enables the vehicle to communicate with call center other telematics enabled vehicles or some other entity or device. The telematics unit preferably uses radio transmissions to establish a communications channel a voice channel and or a data channel with wireless carrier system so that voice and or data transmissions can be sent and received over the channel. By providing both voice and data communication telematics unit enables the vehicle to offer a number of different services including those related to navigation telephony emergency assistance diagnostics infotainment etc. Data can be sent either via a data connection such as via packet data transmission over a data channel or via a voice channel using techniques known in the art. For combined services that involve both voice communication e.g. with a live advisor or voice response unit at the call center and data communication e.g. to provide GPS location data or vehicle diagnostic data to the call center the system can utilize a single call over a voice channel and switch as needed between voice and data transmission over the voice channel and this can be done using techniques known to those skilled in the art.

According to one embodiment telematics unit utilizes cellular communication according to either GSM or CDMA standards and thus includes a standard cellular chipset for voice communications like hands free calling a wireless modem for data transmission an electronic processing device one or more digital memory devices and a dual antenna . It should be appreciated that the modem can either be implemented through software that is stored in the telematics unit and is executed by processor or it can be a separate hardware component located internal or external to telematics unit . The modem can operate using any number of different standards or protocols such as EVDO CDMA GPRS and EDGE. Wireless networking between the vehicle and other networked devices can also be carried out using telematics unit . For this purpose telematics unit can be configured to communicate wirelessly according to one or more wireless protocols such as any of the IEEE 802.11 protocols WiMAX or Bluetooth. When used for packet switched data communication such as TCP IP the telematics unit can be configured with a static IP address or can set up to automatically receive an assigned IP address from another device on the network such as a router or from a network address server.

Processor can be any type of device capable of processing electronic instructions including microprocessors microcontrollers host processors controllers vehicle communication processors and application specific integrated circuits ASICs . It can be a dedicated processor used only for telematics unit or can be shared with other vehicle systems. Processor executes various types of digitally stored instructions such as software or firmware programs stored in memory which enable the telematics unit to provide a wide variety of services. For instance processor can execute programs or process data to carry out at least a part of the method discussed herein.

Telematics unit can be used to provide a diverse range of vehicle services that involve wireless communication to and or from the vehicle. Such services include turn by turn directions and other navigation related services that are provided in conjunction with the GPS based vehicle navigation module airbag deployment notification and other emergency or roadside assistance related services that are provided in connection with one or more collision sensor interface modules such as a body control module not shown diagnostic reporting using one or more diagnostic modules and infotainment related services where music webpages movies television programs videogames and or other information is downloaded by an infotainment module not shown and is stored for current or later playback. The above listed services are by no means an exhaustive list of all of the capabilities of telematics unit but are simply an enumeration of some of the services that the telematics unit is capable of offering. Furthermore it should be understood that at least some of the aforementioned modules could be implemented in the form of software instructions saved internal or external to telematics unit they could be hardware components located internal or external to telematics unit or they could be integrated and or shared with each other or with other systems located throughout the vehicle to cite but a few possibilities. In the event that the modules are implemented as VSMs located external to telematics unit they could utilize vehicle bus to exchange data and commands with the telematics unit.

GPS module receives radio signals from a constellation of GPS satellites. From these signals the module can determine vehicle position that is used for providing navigation and other position related services to the vehicle driver. Navigation information can be presented on the display or other display within the vehicle or can be presented verbally such as is done when supplying turn by turn navigation. The navigation services can be provided using a dedicated in vehicle navigation module which can be part of GPS module or some or all navigation services can be done via telematics unit wherein the position information is sent to a remote location for purposes of providing the vehicle with navigation maps map annotations points of interest restaurants etc. route calculations and the like. The position information can be supplied to call center or other remote computer system such as computer for other purposes such as fleet management. Also new or updated map data can be downloaded to the GPS module from the call center via the telematics unit .

Apart from the audio system and GPS module the vehicle can include other vehicle system modules VSMs in the form of electronic hardware components that are located throughout the vehicle and typically receive input from one or more sensors and use the sensed input to perform diagnostic monitoring control reporting and or other functions. Each of the VSMs is preferably connected by communications bus to the other VSMs as well as to the telematics unit and can be programmed to run vehicle system and subsystem diagnostic tests. As examples one VSM can be an engine control module ECM that controls various aspects of engine operation such as fuel ignition and ignition timing another VSM can be a powertrain control module that regulates operation of one or more components of the vehicle powertrain and another VSM can be a body control module that governs various electrical components located throughout the vehicle like the vehicle s power door locks and headlights. According to one embodiment the engine control module is equipped with on board diagnostic OBD features that provide myriad real time data such as that received from various sensors including vehicle emissions sensors and provide a standardized series of diagnostic trouble codes DTCs that allow a technician to rapidly identify and remedy malfunctions within the vehicle. As is appreciated by those skilled in the art the above mentioned VSMs are only examples of some of the modules that may be used in vehicle as numerous others are also possible.

Vehicle electronics also includes a number of vehicle user interfaces that provide vehicle occupants with a means of providing and or receiving information including microphone pushbuttons s audio system and visual display . As used herein the term vehicle user interface broadly includes any suitable form of electronic device including both hardware and software components which is located on the vehicle and enables a vehicle user to communicate with or through a component of the vehicle. Microphone provides audio input to the telematics unit to enable the driver or other occupant to provide voice commands and carry out hands free calling via the wireless carrier system . For this purpose it can be connected to an on board automated voice processing unit utilizing human machine interface HMI technology known in the art. The pushbutton s allow manual user input into the telematics unit to initiate wireless telephone calls and provide other data response or control input. Separate pushbuttons can be used for initiating emergency calls versus regular service assistance calls to the call center . Audio system provides audio output to a vehicle occupant and can be a dedicated stand alone system or part of the primary vehicle audio system. According to the particular embodiment shown here audio system is operatively coupled to both vehicle bus and entertainment bus and can provide AM FM and satellite radio CD DVD and other multimedia functionality. This functionality can be provided in conjunction with or independent of the infotainment module described above. Visual display is preferably a graphics display such as a touch screen on the instrument panel or a heads up display reflected off of the windshield and can be used to provide a multitude of input and output functions. Various other vehicle user interfaces can also be utilized as the interfaces of are only an example of one particular implementation.

Wireless carrier system is preferably a cellular telephone system that includes a plurality of cell towers only one shown one or more mobile switching centers MSCs as well as any other networking components required to connect wireless carrier system with land network . Each cell tower includes sending and receiving antennas and a base station with the base stations from different cell towers being connected to the MSC either directly or via intermediary equipment such as a base station controller. Cellular system can implement any suitable communications technology including for example analog technologies such as AMPS or the newer digital technologies such as CDMA e.g. CDMA2000 or GSM GPRS. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art various cell tower base station MSC arrangements are possible and could be used with wireless system . For instance the base station and cell tower could be co located at the same site or they could be remotely located from one another each base station could be responsible for a single cell tower or a single base station could service various cell towers and various base stations could be coupled to a single MSC to name but a few of the possible arrangements.

Apart from using wireless carrier system a different wireless carrier system in the form of satellite communication can be used to provide uni directional or bi directional communication with the vehicle. This can be done using one or more communication satellites and an uplink transmitting station . Uni directional communication can be for example satellite radio services wherein programming content news music etc. is received by transmitting station packaged for upload and then sent to the satellite which broadcasts the programming to subscribers. Bi directional communication can be for example satellite telephony services using satellite to relay telephone communications between the vehicle and station . If used this satellite telephony can be utilized either in addition to or in lieu of wireless carrier system .

Land network may be a conventional land based telecommunications network that is connected to one or more landline telephones and connects wireless carrier system to call center . For example land network may include a public switched telephone network PSTN such as that used to provide hardwired telephony packet switched data communications and the Internet infrastructure. One or more segments of land network could be implemented through the use of a standard wired network a fiber or other optical network a cable network power lines other wireless networks such as wireless local area networks WLANs or networks providing broadband wireless access BWA or any combination thereof. Furthermore call center need not be connected via land network but could include wireless telephony equipment so that it can communicate directly with a wireless network such as wireless carrier system .

A residence associated with a vehicle owner or person who has control of the vehicle includes one or more residential electrical devices. While called a residence the residence can describe a vehicle owner s home place of employment or other geographical location real or virtual that includes one or more residential electrical devices not shown . The residential electrical devices can be electrical or electromechanical devices used by the residence under control of the vehicle owner user. Examples of residential electrical devices include light switches thermostats that regulate residential HVAC a security system located at the residence and an irrigation control device to name a few. The residential electrical devices can be found within the residence as well as located nearby on its property. It should be appreciated that the residential electrical devices described herein include the hardware and ability to communicate with the wireless carrier system and or the land network thereby receiving computer readable instructions that can control the devices. Each residential electrical device can be sent the computer readable instructions and remotely controlled using an Internet protocol IP address. That is the residence may use an IP address assigned by the land network and also implement a private network of IP addresses at the residence that can assign a local IP address to each residential electrical device. Other implementations are possible in which the residential electrical device uses an IP address assigned to it by a Dynamic Domain Name Server DDNS .

Using the lighting of the residence as an example each switch used to activate a light at the residence can be a residential electrical device and individually addressable with instructions to control each switch with an executable or computer readable command. Control of residential electrical devices such as light switches will be discussed in more detail below with respect to .

Computer can be one of a number of computers accessible via a private or public network such as the Internet. Each such computer can be used for one or more purposes such as a web server accessible by the vehicle via telematics unit and wireless carrier . Other such accessible computers can be for example a service center computer where diagnostic information and other vehicle data can be uploaded from the vehicle via the telematics unit a client computer used by the vehicle owner or other subscriber for such purposes as accessing or receiving vehicle data or to setting up or configuring subscriber preferences or controlling vehicle functions or a third party repository to or from which vehicle data or other information is provided whether by communicating with the vehicle or call center or both. A computer can also be used for providing Internet connectivity such as DNS services or as a network address server that uses DHCP or other suitable protocol to assign an IP address to the vehicle .

Residential electrical device server can be a separate set of computers managed by the manufacturer or business entity that makes sells one or more residential electrical devices and are accessible from the wireless carrier system and or land network . The residential electrical device server can receive instructions or commands from the wireless carrier system and or land network and using one or more application programming interfaces APIs the server can translate instructions into commands comprising language format understandable by the residential electrical devices if necessary . Also the residential electrical device server can receive information from residential electrical devices via the wireless carrier system and or land network and forward that information on to a variety of recipients such as the vehicle the computer and or a call center . The terms information or instruction can be viewed as general information that can include a message or a information regarding a feature to control whereas command can refer to computer executable language that can be acted on by a device. However these terms may be discussed interchangeably below with respect to carrying out the described method.

Call center is designed to provide the vehicle electronics with a number of different system back end functions and according to the exemplary embodiment shown here generally includes one or more switches servers databases live advisors as well as an automated voice response system VRS all of which are known in the art. These various call center components are preferably coupled to one another via a wired or wireless local area network . Switch which can be a private branch exchange PBX switch routes incoming signals so that voice transmissions are usually sent to either the live adviser by regular phone or to the automated voice response system using VoIP. The live advisor phone can also use VoIP as indicated by the broken line in . VoIP and other data communication through the switch is implemented via a modem not shown connected between the switch and network . Data transmissions are passed via the modem to server and or database . Database can store account information such as subscriber authentication information vehicle identifiers profile records behavioral patterns and other pertinent subscriber information. Data transmissions may also be conducted by wireless systems such as 802.11x GPRS and the like. Although the illustrated embodiment has been described as it would be used in conjunction with a manned call center using live advisor it will be appreciated that the call center can instead utilize VRS as an automated advisor or a combination of VRS and the live advisor can be used.

Turning now to there is shown an exemplary implementation of a method of communicating with residential electrical devices using the vehicle telematics unit . The method begins at step by receiving information identifying a residential electrical device to control. Identity can include not only a location of the residential electrical device such as an IP address where instructions can be sent but also the name type of the residential electrical device so that one residential electrical device can be distinguished from another device and it can be known what type of instruction or command to send. The instructions can be delivered in a variety of ways as well as provided by a number of different sources. For example the vehicle owner can enter an IP address of the residence at the vehicle using the display or some other input device. In addition to the IP address of the residence the vehicle owner can identify the manufacturer and or type of residential electrical device to be controlled. In another example the vehicle owner can access a webpage provided by computer or residential electrical device server from the residence . Via the accessed webpage the computer or server can detect the IP address at the residence and the residential electrical devices at the residence can be addressed using the IP address detected at the residence . The webpage can also include a database of different types of residential electrical devices which the vehicle owner can use to identify the residential electrical devices that he or she wishes to control at the residence . Once the vehicle owner has identified the IP address at the residence by accessing the webpage or otherwise and selected identified one or more residential electrical devices to be controlled this information can be saved as part of a user profile at the computer the residential electrical device server or both . The method proceeds to step .

At step one or more controlled features of the identified residential electrical device s are displayed in the vehicle . Once the vehicle owner has identified the residential electrical device to be controlled possible control options for the device s can be accessed and presented in the vehicle . Each residential electrical device can have a number of options available to control its features. For instance a residential electrical device can be a light switch that turns a light on turns a light off or moves a rheostat for dimming the light. And these features can be identified based on the type of residential electrical device. When the vehicle owner inputs the identity of the residential electrical device the particular options can be sent to the vehicle telematics unit or alternatively accessed from digital memory devices at the unit . Using the display the vehicle can present selectable buttons to turn the light switch off or turn the light switch on as well as a slide switch for dimming the switch. What is presented to control the features of each residential electrical device can change depending on the device to be controlled. In another example when the residential electrical device is a thermostat controlling the HVAC system of the residence the display can present the temperature setting of the thermostat with arrow buttons to increase or decrease the temperature setting. Other options are possible such as a humidity setting with another pair of arrow buttons. The thermostat can send the indoor temperature measured at the residence to the vehicle for presentation on the display .

It also should be appreciated that the display can present one or more buttons that each represent a pre defined or pre saved group of features. This may be helpful when a plurality of residential electrical devices are controlled simultaneously. The display in the vehicle can present groups of features which can be selected using a single button. And the group of features can be categorized by the location of the vehicle or the direction of vehicle travel. For instance when the vehicle is travelling away from the residence the display may present a daytime leaving button that simultaneously controls light switches turning off lights as well as the thermostat lowering the set temperature in the residence . Conversely the display can also offer an evening arriving button that turns lights on and raises the temperature in the residence . The daytime leaving and evening arriving groups of features are merely examples of how different features can be combined. Other features can be combined into a group of settings such that a vehicle owner can customize the group of controlled features. The method proceeds to step .

At step a selection of the displayed controlled features of the residential electrical device is received from a vehicle occupant. After displaying the features of the residential electrical device in the vehicle the vehicle occupant can control those features using input available at the vehicle . Such input can be received by the vehicle using the display described above. For instance the display can act as a touchscreen and present buttons that can be manipulated by the user. Besides selectable buttons selectable arrows and sliding scales are other types of graphically displayed inputs presented by the display that can be manipulated by the user to control features of the residential electrical device. It should also be said that the vehicle occupant can select or control features of residential electrical devices using physical knobs and buttons located within the vehicle instead of or in addition using the touchscreen capabilities of the display . The method proceeds to step .

At step the identified residential electrical device and or features of that device are linked to a boundary distance measured from the residence . The location of the residence can be determined and when the vehicle moves away from or toward the residence one or more residential electrical devices can be controlled based on this movement. Using the examples described above a group of residential electrical devices can be collectively controlled and identified as daytime leaving. The vehicle owner or user can establish a distance from the residence as a boundary that triggers control of the residential electrical device s . This can also be referred to as a geofence that the vehicle owner establishes. The vehicle can receive such as distance via the touchscreen features of the display . Or it is possible for the vehicle owner to access a webpage hosted by computer and enter the boundary distance via the webpage. The boundary distance can then be wirelessly transmitted to the vehicle telematics unit . The method proceeds to step .

At step it is determined that the vehicle telematics unit has moved within or beyond the boundary distance from the residence. Once a vehicle crosses this boundary the vehicle telematics unit can detect such an occurrence using GPS module . When this occurs the vehicle telematics unit can determine if an instruction or command to control one or more features of a residential electrical device is linked to the boundary distance. If so the vehicle telematics unit can wirelessly transmit a signal that includes an instruction or command to control the features of the residential electrical device s . The instruction command can be received at the residence itself or by the computer server or call center any of which can then control the residential electrical devices or pass the command on to the residential electrical devices. This will be discussed below in more detail. The method proceeds to step .

At step an instruction or command is sent from the vehicle telematics unit to the residential electrical device via the wireless carrier system in response to the selection received from the user. The residential electrical device is controlled using the sent instruction or command. The communication pathway such an instruction command passes through can vary as well as the ways the instruction command is generated. For example the vehicle telematics unit can send a message that includes the instruction or command for controlling one or more features of one or more residential electrical devices. If the vehicle telematics unit knows or can obtain the IP address of the residence the unit can send the message directly to the residence via the wireless carrier system and or the land network . However the message for controlling the features of residential electrical devices can pass through other elements shown in .

In some implementations the message can be sent to computer and interpreted by an API which identifies the residential electrical devices to be controlled and generates computer readable commands for each residential electrical device such that the commands will be understood by the residential electrical devices. It is also possible to sent the message controlling the features of residential electrical devices to one or more residential electrical device servers which can interpret the message and generate computer readable commands that are understandable by the residential electrical devices. This can be helpful in a residence that uses multiple residential electrical devices. Multiple residential electrical device servers can each generate commands to control residential electrical devices manufactured by the entity that controls each server . In one example of this one residential electrical device server can be operated by a light switch manufacturer while another residential electrical device server can be operated by a thermostat operator. When the vehicle telematics unit sends a message that controls both light switches and a thermostat the message can be sent to both residential electrical device servers . The residential electrical device server for light switches can send a command to the residence to control light switches whereas a different residential electrical device server can send a command to the residence to control the thermostat. In one implementation these commands can be sent to the residential electrical device in response to detecting that the vehicle telematics unit has moved within or beyond the boundary distance from the residence. The method then ends.

It should be appreciated that the above method can also include one or more residential electrical devices that can send data or information to the vehicle . This is shown in as a method of communicating with residential electrical devices using the vehicle telematics unit . The method begins at step by receiving information identifying a residential electrical device to control. This step can be accomplished as described above with respect to step of . The method proceeds to step .

At step the vehicle telematics unit monitors for messages sent from the residential electrical device in response to activity at the residence . For example the residence may use one or more motion detectors as part of a home security system. The residential electrical device s in this case motion detectors or the home security system can generate a message and transmit that message to the vehicle telematics unit . When the motion detectors determine that someone is moving in the residence the home security system can generate a residence status message that informs the vehicle and the vehicle occupant that someone is moving in the residence . Other residential electrical devices can also communicate information to the vehicle . In another example a personal computer PC can be a residential electrical device used at the residence to send a residential status message to the vehicle . A person at the residence can construct the residential status message at the residence and send that message which is ultimately received at the vehicle . The residential status message can be sent to the residential electrical device server which can send the message to computer . The computer or the server can access the IP address of the vehicle telematics unit from a DDNS and send the message to the unit . The method proceeds to step .

At step the residence status message or other message is received at the vehicle in response to activity at the residence while the vehicle is located away from the residence . The vehicle telematics unit can receive messages including information originally sent from one or more residential electrical devices located at the residence . The message can include a vehicle identifier such as a vehicle identification number VIN or electronic serial number ESN and be received at the vehicle telematics unit from the wireless carrier system the computer residential electronic device server or call center . The computer the residential electronic device server and the call center can identify the vehicle using the vehicle identifier and forward the information included with the message to the vehicle telematics unit via the wireless carrier system . It is also possible that the residence can access a DDNS to obtain the IP address of the vehicle and send the information directly to the vehicle telematics unit . Once received at the vehicle the message can be displayed on the display or the information included with the message can be audibly played within the vehicle . Using the motion detectors and the PC examples described above the audio system or display can present the residential status message informing a vehicle occupant that the residence is occupied. The method then ends.

It is to be understood that the foregoing is a description of one or more embodiments of the invention. The invention is not limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed herein but rather is defined solely by the claims below. Furthermore the statements contained in the foregoing description relate to particular embodiments and are not to be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or on the definition of terms used in the claims except where a term or phrase is expressly defined above. Various other embodiments and various changes and modifications to the disclosed embodiment s will become apparent to those skilled in the art. All such other embodiments changes and modifications are intended to come within the scope of the appended claims.

As used in this specification and claims the terms e.g. for example for instance such as and like and the verbs comprising having including and their other verb forms when used in conjunction with a listing of one or more components or other items are each to be construed as open ended meaning that the listing is not to be considered as excluding other additional components or items. Other terms are to be construed using their broadest reasonable meaning unless they are used in a context that requires a different interpretation.

