---

title: System for managing a digest of biographical information stored in a radio frequency identity chip coupled to a mobile communication device
abstract: A method of maintaining a biographical digest of information stored in a radio frequency identity chip communicatively coupled to a motherboard of a mobile communication device. The method comprises determining and writing inception information to the radio frequency identity chip once and preventing later modification of the inception information by a biographical digest software layer stored in a memory of the mobile communication device and executed by a processor of the device. The method further comprises determining and writing current information to the radio frequency identity chip by the biographical digest software layer in response to triggering events.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171243&OS=09171243&RS=09171243
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09171243
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130404
---
Mobile communication devices have become ubiquitous among people living in nations with developed economies. When a problem occurs a mobile communication device may be serviced by customer care representatives for example by a representative in a retail outlet that sells mobile communication devices. Information about the original manufacturing of the device the initial configuration of the device and or the current configuration of the device may desirably be determined to assist a representative in troubleshooting and or repairing the device. Some mobile communication devices provide such manufacturing and initial configuration information encoded in graphics for example bar codes that are affixed to the device for example inside a battery compartment and behind a battery of the device. Other information about the current configuration of the mobile communication device may be looked up or accessed from a data base via a work station operated by the representative for example by providing information identifying the subject device such as an electronic serial number ESN a mobile station identity MSID a phone number or other identifying information obtained from the graphics affixed inside the battery compartment and or provided by a user of the device.

A mobile communication device for example a mobile phone may pass through a number of states from initial manufacturing to termination of the device for example when melted down to harvest precious metals. A device may be provided to a first owner and activated for wireless communication services. The device may be deactivated and returned to a refurbishing center. The device may then be provided to a second owner and activated for wireless communication services possibly services associated with a different brand or service provider. The device may cycle through these states any number of times. Ultimately the device may be deactivated and terminated.

In an embodiment a method of maintaining a biographical digest of information stored in a radio frequency identity chip communicatively coupled to a motherboard of a mobile communication device is disclosed. The method comprises determining inception information about the inception of the mobile communication device by reading information stored inside the mobile communication device and encoding the inception information wherein encoding the inception information is performed by a biographical digest software layer stored in a memory of the mobile communication device and executed by a processor of the mobile communication device. The method further comprises writing the encoded inception information into a static portion of the biographical digest of the radio frequency identity chip that is communicatively coupled to the motherboard of the mobile communication device wherein writing the encoded inception information into the static portion is performed by the biographical digest software layer and after writing the encoded inception information to the static portion of the biographical digest disabling by the biographical digest software layer write access to the static portion of the biographical digest. The method further comprises in response to a triggering event determining current information about the configuration of the mobile communication device by reading information stored inside the mobile communication device and encoding the current information about the configuration of the mobile communication device wherein encoding the current information is performed by the biographical digest software layer. The method further comprises writing the encoded current information into a dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the radio frequency identity chip wherein writing the encoded current information into the dynamic portion is performed by the biographical digest software layer. The inception information comprises at least three of a federal communications commission FCC identity a device model identity an initial hardware version identity a manufacturer identity a country of manufacturing identity e.g. the identity of the country in which the device was manufactured a date of manufacture an identity of a location of manufacture an initial software version identity an initial preferred roaming list PRL identity an original stock keeping unit SKU number or identity and an original universal product code UPC . The current information comprises at least three of a current software version identity a current preferred roaming list identity a current stock keeping unit identity or number a current universal product code a current device status a communication subscription service activation date a phone number a current mobile equipment identity MEID a current international mobile station equipment identity a current communication service provider identity and a current communication service brand identity.

In another embodiment a method of performing a confidential transaction initiated from a mobile communication device coupled to a radio frequency identity RFID chip that stores a biographical digest of information is disclosed. The method comprises receiving the biographical digest of information read from the radio frequency identity chip coupled to the mobile communication device by a near field communication NFC scanner receiving a security key from the mobile communication device via a wireless link between the mobile communication device and a base transceiver station and decrypting at least a part of the biographical digest of information using the security key received via the wireless link. The method further comprises comparing identifying information present in the decrypted part of the biographical digest of information to identifying information associated with the mobile communication device and when the identifying information correlates completing the confidential transaction initiated by the mobile communication device. The biographical digest of information comprises inception information that is maintained in a static state by a biographical digest software layer of the mobile communication device and current information that is updated by the biographical digest software layer of the mobile communication device. The inception information comprises at least three of a federal communications commission FCC identity a device model identity an initial hardware version identity a manufacturer identity a country of manufacturing identity e.g. the identity of the country in which the device was manufactured a date of manufacture an identity of a location of manufacture an initial software version identity an initial preferred roaming list PRL identity an original stock keeping unit SKU number or identity and an original universal product code UPC . The current information comprises at least three of a current software version identity a current preferred roaming list identity a current stock keeping unit identity or number a current universal product code a current device status a communication subscription service activation date a phone number a current mobile equipment identity MEID a current international mobile station equipment identity a current communication service provider identity and a current communication service brand identity.

In an embodiment yet another method of managing a lifecycle of a mobile communication device based on a biographical digest of information stored in a radio frequency identity chip communicatively coupled to a motherboard of the mobile communication device is disclosed. The method comprises encoding current information about the configuration of the mobile communication device wherein encoding the current information is performed by a biographical digest software layer stored in a memory of the mobile communication device and executed by a processor of the mobile communication device. The current information comprises a current device status and at least two of a current software version identity a current preferred roaming list identity a current stock keeping unit identity or number a current universal product code a communication subscription service activation date a phone number a current mobile equipment identity MEID a current international mobile station equipment identity a current communication service provider identity and a current communication service brand identity. The method further comprises writing the encoded current information into a dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the radio frequency identity chip wherein writing the encoded current information into the dynamic portion is performed by the biographical digest software layer. The method further comprises detecting an end of lifecycle event by the biographical digest software layer in response to detecting the end of lifecycle event setting the current device status in the dynamic portion of the biographical digest to terminated by the biographical digest software layer and based on the terminated status of the current device status blocking access to a cellular radio transceiver of the mobile communication device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Obtaining information about a mobile communication device may be desirable at numerous points in the life of the device. It is useful to be able to quickly and automatically identify and determine manufacturing information and configuration information about devices in a distribution center or order fulfillment center for example to quickly scan all the devices stored in a master carton on a palette in a warehouse. It is useful to be able to quickly and automatically identify and determine manufacturing information and configuration information about devices in a customer service environment for example in a retail store where wireless communication subscribers might take their device to have a problem diagnosed and repaired.

In the case of determining information about a device at a retail store devices in the past often provided some of this information in one or more bar codes under the removable battery. Devices however are evolving to non removable batteries that is not removable by an end user or a customer service representative in a retail store and providing a bar code behind the battery cover may not be useful to customer service representatives in determining this information under those circumstances. Putting the graphical information on an exterior of the device is not an aesthetically acceptable alternative. It is understood that quickly and automatically determining this information about mobile communication devices from a sizeable assemblage of devices in a shipping box on a palette in a warehouse may not be practicable using the bar coded information. Additionally even in the current system employing bar codes that are readily accessible the bar codes may be smudged or torn over time and hence may not be readable by a bar code scanner. When a store employee attempts to enter in the bar code number manually for example by typing the numbers in using a keyboard the employee may make errors. Even if no errors occur while entering the bar code number the process may be slow and tedious diminishing the customer satisfaction with the retail store and or the wireless service provider or brand associated with the mobile communication device.

The present disclosure teaches a new system for making this information about a mobile communication device easily and automatically available for scanning. Note that bar codes may continue to be provided in an interior of the mobile communication device notwithstanding the teachings of the present disclosure as a back up measure. The information may be stored in a radio frequency identity RFID chip coupled to the device. The information stored in the RFID chip may include information about the manufacturing of the device information about an initial configuration of the device as well as information about a current configuration of the device. In an embodiment the information stored in the RFID chip is not used to drive the behavior of the device as for example applications on the device reading from the RFID chip to select between different execution paths based on the read parameter values. It is contemplated that the applications instead will read parameters stored in conventional memory of the device to determine their execution paths and that the information stored in the RFID chip will be read by external scanners.

This information may be referred to as a biographical digest. As the device is modified for example as a new preferred roaming list PRL is configured into a mobile phone the RFID chip information may be correspondingly updated to remain current and accurate. The information stored in the RFID chip may be read by an appropriate scanning device even when the device is turned off when the battery of the device is depleted or when the battery of the device is not installed as for example when the device is stowed in its original shipping box and its battery is not installed prior to initial distribution to a user. For example a near field communication NFC scanner may radiate an energizing radio field from which the RFID chip may derive energizing power even when no power is provided to the RFID chip from a battery in the device. The information stored in the RFID chip brings together in one location information that may currently be stored in separate disparate memory locations in the mobile communication device and or distributed across multiple separate systems.

The RFID chip may be electrically coupled to the device for example wired to receive power from a battery of the device at least in some modes of operation and wired to be communicatively coupled to a processor of the device and or to a data bus to an address bus and or to a memory bus of the device. For further details about an RFID chip electrically coupled to the mobile communication device see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 857 139 filed Apr. 4 2013 entitled Radio Frequency Identity RFID Chip Electrically and Communicatively Coupled to Motherboard of Mobile Communication Device by Kevin R. Cordes et al. which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In an embodiment the RFID chip may be read from by an NFC scanner or other near field communication device and written to by the processor and or the data bus of the device. For example in an embodiment the processor may assert one or more addresses mapped to the RFID chip on an address bus of the device and write to memory storage within the RFID chip over a data bus of the device.

The information about the mobile communication device stored in the RFID chip is desirably partitioned into a static portion and a dynamic portion. The static portion contains information that does not change over the entire lifecycle of the device for example an identity of a manufacturer of the device a location of manufacturing of the device an initial hardware version of the device an initial software version of the device and the like. The dynamic portion contains information that may change over the lifecycle of the device for example a current hardware version of the device a current software version of the device a current preferred roaming list PRL of the device a phone number of the device a lifecycle state of the device and the like. At the end of the life of the device the dynamic portion may also be rendered non writeable to prevent further writing and or modification of the dynamic portion.

The present disclosure further teaches a new biographical digest software layer and or biographical digest control layer that mediates write access to the RFID chip for example an RFID chip that is electrically coupled to a motherboard of the mobile communication device. In an embodiment the biographical digest software layer may be implemented by an application that executes on top of the operating system e.g. executes as an application that invokes system calls to functions provided by the operating system of the mobile communication device to perform its functions for example invokes low level operating system code and or driver software to address the RFID chip write to the RFID chip and or read from the RFID chip . Alternatively in an embodiment the biographical digest software layer may be encapsulated in or integrated with the operating system of the mobile communication device. Alternatively the biographical digest software layer may comprise one or more components functions scripts and or libraries that may be invoked or linked into other applications that desire to write to the RFID chip. In any of these cases when a different application or component of the mobile communication device attempts to write to the RFID chip for example to write to the biographical digest information stored by the RFID chip that application or component is obliged to request the biographical digest software layer to perform the write on its behalf.

In the manufacturing stage and or before shipping to a distribution center and or order fulfillment center the biographical digest software layer determines the information associated with the static portion of the biographical digest encodes this information appropriately and writes the encoded information into the static portion of the biographical digest in the RFID chip. In an embodiment the encoded information may be encrypted before the encrypted encoded information is written into the static portion of the biographical digest in the RFID chip. In an embodiment the biographical digest software layer may determine the information associated with the static portion of the biographical digest by reading from a plurality of parameters stored in the mobile communication device. In an embodiment at least some of the information associated with the static portion of the biographical digest may be provided to the biographical digest software layer by an external source such as a manufacturing fixture and or a workstation that indicates manufacturing information such as a country in which the mobile communication device is manufactured a location of a factory where the mobile communication device is manufactured an assembly line on which the mobile communication device is assembled a date on which the mobile communication device is assembled and like information about the inception of the device. Such information may be referred to as inception information in some contexts.

After writing the encoded information and or encrypted encoded information to the static portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip the biographical digest software layer may command that the write access to the static portion be disabled in the RFID chip hardware for example by commanding a manufacturing fixture to which the mobile communication device is coupled to blow fuses in the write lines of the RFID chip. Alternatively the biographical digest software layer may store a state variable indicating that the static portion has been written to and the biographical digest software layer may block any future attempts to write to the static portion of the biographical digest thereby disabling write access to the static portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip.

In an embodiment the biographical digest software layer may verify and or validate that the encoded and or encrypted encoded information has been correctly written to the static portion of the biographical digest by reading back from the static portion and comparing to the determined a correlation with what is expected to be written. If the stored information disagrees with what the biographical digest software layer expects to be written there the biographical digest software layer may rewrite the encoded and or encrypted encoded information to the static portion of the biographical digest on the RFID chip. The biographical digest software layer may not disable the write access to the static portion until after the static portion has been validated in this manner.

The biographical digest software layer may also determine information associated with the dynamic portion of the biographical digest encode that information and write the encoded information to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip. In an embodiment the biographical digest software layer may encrypt the encoded information and write the encrypted encoded information to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest. The biographical digest software layer may write to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip before the mobile communication device is shipped to the distribution center and or order fulfillment center and also in response to trigger events thereafter. Trigger events may include for example an update of software and or firmware on the mobile communication device. A trigger may be generated on a periodic interval. In response to such a trigger event the biographical digest software layer may analyze the current configuration of the mobile communication device for example from reading parameter values stored on the mobile communication device encode the information associated with the dynamic portion of the biographical digest and write the encoded information to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip.

The biographical digest software layer may promote the use of the RFID chip in a kind of two factor authentication when the mobile communication device is used in a sensitive transaction such as the distribution of confidential information and or an electronic payment based on a credit card. The confidential information may be medical records biometric values financial information personal information or other sensitive information. The biographical digest software layer may have encrypted the biographical digest information. A near field communication scanner may read the biographical digest information from the RFID chip and send the encrypted information to a backend. The biographical digest software layer may provide an encryption key to the backend so that the biographical digest information can be decrypted. The decrypted biographical digest information can be used in association with other information for example an identity of the mobile communication device known to the radio access network and or to the wireless communication service provider to authenticate in two ways the proffered credit card of other payment information before completing a payment transaction or other transfer of confidential information.

The biographical digest software layer may write a device status parameter of the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip to a terminated or a dead value when the mobile communication device has been designated for disposal. The biographical digest software layer may thereafter block any attempts by other applications on the mobile communication device to access the cellular radio transceiver or other radio transceivers of the mobile communications device. In an embodiment the biographical digest software layer provides an exception to this rule when an attempt to originate a 911 type call is made. Alternatively the biographical digest software layer may invoke services of a hardware driver of the mobile communication device to block such attempts to access the cellular radio transceiver. For example the biographical digest software layer may set a configuration parameter on the mobile communication device that is used by firmware that is involved in making calls or otherwise using the cellular radio transceiver in communications. The subject firmware may then provide the described functionality of blocking attempts to communicate using the cellular radio transceiver possibly making an exception for calls determined to be 911 calls. Access to writing this parameter may be restricted to the biographical digest software layer for example by the operating system.

Alternatively the biographical digest software layer may simply block attempts to reprovision the mobile communication device for wireless communication services. In an embodiment firmware installed in the mobile communication device may provide functionality for automated activation of wireless communication service for the mobile communication device. If the biographical digest software layer when the dead device status or terminated device status is set in the biographical digest causes the activation firmware to be inoperable activation of the wireless communication service may be prevented. Yet other processes for enforcing the terminated state of the mobile communication device by the biographical digest software layer are contemplated by the disclosure.

The use of an RFID chip to store the information about the mobile communication device described in summary above can provide a number of advantages. A number of mobile communication devices may be scanned quickly and automatically through a master carton containing the mobile communication devices in their individual shipping boxes with no battery installed in the devices in a distribution center and or fulfillment center. A mobile communication device presented for service at a retail store can be quickly and automatically scanned to obtain information useful for providing customer service. When the mobile communication device is returned for refurbishment or for final disposal a device status of refurbish or terminate may be written to the RFID chip from an NFC scanner writer. A mobile communication device having a terminate device status written in its RFID chip may be prevented from reactivation.

Turning now to a system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a mobile communication device . The mobile communication device comprises a radio frequency identity RFID chip that comprises a biographical digest a near field communication NFC transceiver an RFID antenna and a logic processor . In an embodiment the RFID chip is connected or communicatively coupled to a mother board or circuit board of the mobile device and is connected or communicatively coupled to one or more of a memory bus a data bus and or an address bus of the mother board.

The mobile communication device may further comprise a memory a central processing unit CPU a cellular transceiver and a general purpose near field communication transceiver . The biographical digest may be abstractly considered to be part of the memory or part of the memory map of the mobile communication device because the biographical digest via the mediation of an application may be addressable on an address bus and readable via a data bus and or a memory bus of the mobile communication device .

The general purpose NFC transceiver may be used for completing point of sale POS transactions for obtaining access to a building via a handshake with an electronic entry scanner for paying mass transit system fares and for other transactions or exchanges of confidential information associated with application layer functionality visible to a user of the device . For further details about a radio frequency identity chip that is communicatively coupled to a motherboard of a mobile communication device see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 857 139 filed Apr. 4 2013 entitled Radio Frequency identity RFID Chip Electrically and Communicatively Coupled to Motherboard of Mobile Communication Device by Kevin R. Cordes et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The cellular transceiver may communicate with a network via a wireless communication link that may be established with a base transceiver station that is communicatively coupled to the network . The wireless communication link may be established in accordance with any of a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol or other cellular communication wireless protocol. The wireless communication link between the cellular transceiver and the base transceiver station may support voice communication and or data communication. These communication modes may include voice to voice communication short message service SMS communication multimedia message service MMS communication email communication HTTP communication such as retrieving hypertext markup language HTML content from a web server or other content server.

The network may comprise one or more private networks one or more public networks and or a combination thereof. It is understood that the system may comprise any number of base transceiver stations and any number of mobile devices . In an embodiment a service station such as a retail store clerk work station or a customer care work station may be communicatively coupled to the network . In an embodiment a server computer may be coupled to the network and able to communicate to the mobile communication device via the network and the base transceiver station .

In an embodiment a near field communication NFC scanner may be communicatively coupled to the network . The NFC scanner may provide an energizing radio field to activate and or provide power to the RFID chip and may read information from the RFID chip for example may read the biographical digest and or the information contained in the biographical digest from the RFID chip . The NFC scanner communicates with the RFID chip using near field communications. As used herein near field communications employed by the NFC scanner may be limited to relatively short distance for example less than about 20 inches or less than about 10 inches. At the same time the present disclosure contemplates use of a NFC scanner that may communicate using stronger fields that are effective over greater distances and or that are able to penetrate cardboard master shipping cartons and or individual shipping containers for mobile communication devices. Because the NFC scanner may provide the energizing radio field the RFID chip may be scanned by the NFC scanner even when the mobile communication device is turned off when a battery not shown of the device is not installed and or when the battery of the device is discharged. In an embodiment the NFC scanner may be able to write into a storage location of the RFID chip that is separate from the biographical digest and the application may read the information written into the storage location of the RFID chip by the NFC scanner .

In an embodiment the biographical digest comprises information about the mobile communication device for example a manufacturer identity a device model identity an initial hardware version identity an initial software version identity an initial preferred roaming list identity a current software version identity a current preferred roaming list identity and other information about the device . The biographical digest may comprise a static portion and a dynamic portion . The biographical digest may be stored in a memory portion of the RFID chip for example a semiconductor memory portion. In an embodiment the biographical digest may be stored in an encrypted form.

In an embodiment the memory area corresponding to the static portion may be physically separated from the memory area corresponding to the dynamic portion . Alternatively the static portion and the dynamic portion may not be physically separated but the write functionality of the static portion may be separately configured and or controlled from the write functionality of the dynamic portion . In either case the separation of the memory area corresponding to the static portion from the memory area corresponding to the dynamic portion may be referred to as bifurcated memory or a bifurcation of at least a portion of the memory storage of the RFID chip .

After the static portion is written to for example upon completion of the manufacturing cycle of the device the write functionality for the static portion may be disabled for example by blowing fuses in the write lines associated with the static portion while leaving intact the fuses in the corresponding write lines associated with the dynamic portion . The fuses in the write lines associated with the dynamic portion may be blown at an end of a lifecycle of the device for example when the device has transitioned to a dead or terminated status. Alternatively the writing to the static portion may be prevented by a biographical digest software layer and or application for example an application described further hereinafter that mediates write access to the static portion . In an embodiment the static portion may be partially written to after the initial writing for example in the case where some or all of the static information is stored in memory that has experienced a hardware failure. The hardware failure may be detected for example by an application described below and the static portion rewritten possibly mapped into a different portion of the static portion to avoid the failed memory locations.

In an embodiment information that is contained in the static portion remains constant and unchanged over the life of the mobile device while the information that is contained in the dynamic portion of the biographical digest may change for example as revised software firmware provisioning information and configuration information is installed on the mobile device . The contents of the biographical digest the static portion and the dynamic portion are discussed in more detail below with reference to .

An application may be stored in the memory and executed by the central processing unit to write to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest via one or more buses of the mobile device . The application may provide a biographical digest software layer. It is understood that in an embodiment the functionality of the application as described herein may be provided at least in part by an operating system of the mobile communication device and or by an application embedded in the operating system of the mobile communication device .

The application may implement and or enforce rules for accessing and interacting with the biographical digest . The application may implement control rules or a control system for managing the biographical digest over the lifecycle of the device . The application may manage and or mediate all write accesses to the biographical digest . Other applications executing on the mobile communication device may attempt to write to the biographical digest by invoking methods provided by the application for example by an application programming interface API of the application or by operating system calls supported and implemented by the application .

The application prohibits attempts of other applications to write to the static portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip . The application may itself write to the static portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip on inception of the mobile communication device for example during the manufacturing phase of the device . After having written the static portion of the biographical digest the application may cause write lines of the static portion to be disabled for example by commanding a manufacturing fixture to blow one or more fuses in the write lines of the static portion . Alternatively the application may set a parameter in a memory location or parameter component of the device that indicates the static portion has been written to and thereafter based on this parameter value the application will refuse any request to write to the static portion .

To write to the static portion the application may read from a plurality of storage locations in the memory and or from flags associated with other components of the device to determine an initial state of the device . The application may further be provided with information from an outside device for example a manufacturing fixture or manufacturing workstation which may indicate information about the manufacturing itself for example a country where the device is manufactured a factory where the device is manufactured a date of manufacture an assembly line on which the device was manufactured and the like. The application may encode the information and write it to the static portion . In an embodiment the application may further encrypt the encoded information using an encryption key that the application maintains before writing to the static portion .

The application may further determine information about the current state or configuration of the mobile communication device encode this information and write it to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip . As with the static portion the application may encrypt the encoded information about the current state and write the encrypted information about the current state into the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip . The application may encrypt the static portion and the dynamic portion with the same encryption key. Alternatively in an embodiment the application may encrypt the static portion with a first encryption key and encrypt the dynamic portion with a second encryption key wherein the first encryption key is different from the second encryption key.

The application may determine and write to the dynamic portion when a triggering event occurs. The present disclosure contemplates the application determining and writing information to the dynamic portion in response to a variety of different trigger events. Trigger events may be generated by the application or by a different application on the mobile communication device on a periodic basis for example hourly daily weekly or some other periodic basis.

In an embodiment the application may compare the periodically encoded current information to the information stored in the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip before writing to that dynamic portion . If the encoded information read from the dynamic portion matches the encoded information determined based on reading from current parameters the application may omit writing to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip thereby saving processor time and possibly conserving a limited number of write cycles the RFID chip is able to sustain.

Trigger events may be generated by asynchronous events on the mobile communication device for example update events triggered by actors external to the mobile communication device . For example the mobile communication device may be requested to retrieve an over the air update from an OMA database and the completion of downloading the OMA update may generate a triggering event. In this manner the application may keep the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip maintained with current information. For example if the mobile communication device is caused to install a new software version a trigger can be generated to cause the application to re determine current information about the configuration of the mobile communication device encode that information optionally encrypt the encoded information and write the encoded or encrypted encoded information to the dynamic portion where that newly determined current information includes an identity of the newly downloaded and installed software version. In an embodiment the RFID chip and or the application may expect an authorization key or token as a precondition for writing to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest.

In an embodiment the processor may transmit data to the RFID chip to be written to the biographical digest for example to the dynamic portion over a data bus of the device . The processor may transmit data to the RFID chip by invoking and executing the application . The logic processor may receive the data from the data bus of the device and write it to the dynamic portion . In an embodiment the processor and or the application may parse the data to extract an authorization key and or authorization token validate the authorization key or token and provided the authorization key or token successfully validates write the data to the dynamic portion . Alternatively the logic processor may validate an authorization key or token before writing data to the dynamic portion .

Data that is written by the processor to the dynamic portion may be transmitted to the mobile device from a device coupled to the network via the base transceiver station . For example the service station may transmit data to the processor to write to the dynamic portion . The service station may transmit for example data that resets error codes encoded in the dynamic portion of the biographical digest . As another example a software update may be performed over the air and a remote management server not show of a wireless communication service provider that is coupled to the network may transmit data that revises a current software version of the dynamic portion of the biographical digest .

Data may be read from the RFID chip by the NFC scanner . The NFC scanner may parse the biographical digest into the static portion and or the dynamic portion and extract the information encoded and or encapsulated in the biographical digest . Alternatively the NFC scanner may provide the biographical digest intact to a server computer that is communicatively coupled to the NFC scanner via the network and that server may parse extract and analyze the biographical digest. Alternatively the NFC scanner may be coupled to or integrated with a portable computer not shown . The information obtained from the biographical digest may be used in a variety of ways as further illustrated with reference to use cases described below.

The mobile communication device may be any of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a removable wireless interface component a head unit or telematics unit configured for installation into a vehicle or other mobile communication device. The service station and or the NFC scanner may be implemented as computers. Computer systems are described in detail hereinafter.

Turning now to and further details of the biographical digest are described. The term biographical is employed to suggest that the information contained is biographical and tells a story about the device . This story comprises information about the current state of the device as well as about the birth or origins of the device . The information about the birth or origins of the device are stored in the static portion and is intended to remain constant fixed and unchanged over the life of the device . The information about the current state of the device are store in the dynamic portion and is intended to be updated and modified as the state of the device changes for example as the software of the device is changed as the device is rebranded as the communication service associated with the device changes and as other like changes occur. The term digest is used to imply that the information may be combined or digested into a compact and or encoded form suitable for storing writing and reading efficiently.

In an embodiment the biographical digest may comprise from about 200 characters of information to about 500 characters of information. It will be appreciated however that the teachings of the present disclosure are applicable to a biographical digest of any size. As semiconductor manufacturing technology and radio frequency identity chip manufacturing technology evolve and improve it would be expected that the size of the biographical digest may increase with increased processing power and or increased memory storage capacity of the radio frequency identity chip state of the art.

In an embodiment the static portion may comprise information indicating one or more of a federal communications commission FCC identity a device model identity an initial hardware version identity a manufacturer identity a country of manufacturing identity e.g. the identity of the country in which the device was manufactured a date of manufacture an identity of a location of manufacture an initial software version identity an initial preferred roaming list PRL identity an original stock keeping unit SKU number or identity and or an original universal product code UPC . It is understood that other information associated with the initial state of condition of the device may also be stored in the static portion for example test results inspector identity assembly line identity and the like.

In an embodiment the static portion may comprise one or more initial security keys and or authorization keys for example a trusted security zone master key a secure element SE key or other security and or authorization keys. Such keys or tokens may be stored in an encrypted form. A trusted security zone may be installed on the mobile communication device to provide a hardware assisted security for example based on either separate processors or separate virtual processors.

The static portion may be writeable only during a manufacturing stage of the device . Upon completion of the manufacturing the write access to the static portion may desirably be blocked for example fuses in the data write lines coupled to the static portion may be blown thereby isolating the write inputs of the static portion . Alternatively the static portion may be disabled for writing in another way. In an embodiment the application may enforce the block on writing to the static portion . The manufacturing process may comprise writing to the static portion verifying the accuracy of the information written to the static portion and only then disabling writing to the static portion .

In an embodiment the dynamic portion may comprise information indicating one or more of a current software version identity a current preferred roaming list identity a current stock keeping unit identity or number a current universal product code a current device status a communication subscription service activation date a phone number a current mobile equipment identity MEID a current international mobile station equipment identity a current communication service provider identity a current communication service brand identity and other information about the current state and or configuration of the device and or its communication service plan.

The device status may assume a number of values such as new refurbished activated dead or terminated and or other values. The device status may be employed by the device to control operation modes of the device . For example if the device status has been set to dead or terminated the device may not allow itself to attempt to connect to the base transceiver station or to perform any other kind of radio communication. The device in the dead or terminated status may further prevent presentation on a display of the device or responding to inputs of any control input of the device . The device status may be associated with a lifecycle of the device described below with reference to .

In an embodiment the dynamic portion may further comprise error codes. For example as different processing errors or communications failures are experienced by the device the application may determine an error code associated with the condition and write this into an error codes portion of the dynamic portion . The error codes may comprise a concatenation of one or more error codes. For example an error code may comprise an error identity and optionally further information about the error. The error codes may be indefinitely extendable by adding more error codes as errors occur at the tail end of the error codes. In an embodiment a specific error code may be repeated in the error codes as often as the error has occurred. Alternatively a specific error code may only be allowed to appear once in the error codes.

Alternatively the error codes may comprise a vector where each element of the vector corresponds to a given error condition and if the element is set one or more instances of the corresponding specific error has been experienced by the device and if the element is not set no instance of the corresponding specific error has been experienced by the device . The error codes may be reset to an initial state indicating no errors have occurred for example by a customer service representative after reading the error codes. The error codes may be used by a customer service representative to promote troubleshooting and correcting any problems that the device may have.

In an embodiment the dynamic portion may comprise a counter that indicates how many times the dynamic portion and or the biographical digest has been written to. Some RFID chip may be specified as able to sustain a limited number of read cycles and the counter may be used to identify when the RFID chip may be reaching the end of its reliable life. When the counter indicates that the RFID chip has exceeded a threshold of reliable write cycles the application may present a notification to a user of the mobile communication device of the condition.

In an embodiment the biographical digest desirably may not contain any private information related to a user of the mobile communication device for example no personal address no name no identification number such as a social security number or employee number. The biographical digest may desirably be standardized for use across a plurality of different models of mobile communication devices to promote using common NFC scanning equipment and or common parsing software.

One of skill in the art will appreciate that the system described above may be applied in a variety of different and useful ways. Several particular use cases are now described to provide further insight into how the system may be applied but it is understood that the disclosure contemplates other applications that are not described here to avoid prolixity and to promote conciseness.

In an embodiment the system may be usefully applied in a distribution center and or an order fulfillment center. An order fulfillment center may receive mobile communication devices from several different original equipment manufacturers OEMs . The order fulfillment center may ship these same mobile communication devices to retail stores for selling to walk in customers to enterprises for distribution to their employees for use in their day to day work and to individuals who order a single mobile communication device for their personal use. The numbers and the mix of different models of mobile communication devices that may be shipped to these different categories of end users or in the case of the retail store an intermediate user may be different. In an embodiment a large order fulfillment center may handle between about 1 million to about 2 million mobile communication devices per month. Alternatively a smaller order fulfillment center may handle between about 100 000 to about 200 000 mobile communication devices per month. The processes for handling these large volumes of device may benefit from the use of aspects of the system .

For example when such large volumes of mobile communication devices are flowing through an order fulfillment center there may be problems with pilferage. The order fulfillment center may place NFC scanners proximate to exits to scan the biographical digests of mobile communication devices that are leaving the building. A computer coupled to the NFC scanners may analyze the identity of the mobile communication devices thus scanned and determine if any of the mobile communication devices are being stolen. It is noted that the NFC scanners may be able to interrogate the RFID chip associated with the devices even when the battery is not installed in the devices because the RFID chip can be energized by an energizing field radiated by the NFC scanner as described above.

It may happen that a manufacturing problem occurred and resulted in some mobile communication devices being flawed. The problem may affect only a selected number of mobile communication devices for example devices of a specific model manufactured on a specific assembly line at a specific manufacturing location on a specific date. By using a portable NFC scanner coupled to a portable computing device that can implement a filter to identify devices that have a biographical digest that is consistent with the criteria described above an order fulfillment center worker may more rapidly and conveniently identify the subject flawed devices . In the absence of the system described herein the order fulfillment center might otherwise be obligated to remove many devices from their shipping boxes scan the bar codes in their battery compartments to identify which devices match the described criteria. Alternatively perhaps the task to be performed is to identify one or more specific devices from among a number of other devices for fulfilling an order. Again the system can be applied to ease the order fulfillment process using the NFC scanner coupled to a portable computer implementing a filter to identify devices that have a biographical digest that matches the criteria. It is noted that the NFC scanners may be able to interrogate the RFID chip associated with the devices even when the battery is not installed in the devices because the RFID chip can be energized by an energizing field radiated by the NFC scanner as described above.

A customer retail store may offer mobile communication devices for sale as well as providing a first level of customer care. Customers may bring a mobile communication device that has one or more perceived problems to the retail store for diagnosis and or repair. The customer care representative may scan the customer s mobile communication device to read the biographical digest . This information may be transported to the service station or workstation that the customer care representative uses. Alternatively the customer may use the NFC scanner upon entering the store for example by tapping the device in at a customer care kiosk before being called by the customer care representative. The customer care representative based on the customer s description of his or her perceived trouble using the device and based on the information contained in the biographical digest may be able to quickly diagnose the cause of the perceived trouble and recommend a remedy or indeed fix the problem directly. It is noted that the NFC scanners may be able to interrogate the RFID chip associated with the devices even when the battery installed in the devices is depleted and or when the devices are turned off because the RFID chip can be energized by an energizing field radiated by the NFC scanner as described above.

As an additional use case the customer may complete a transaction for an accessory or other merchandise by tapping their mobile communication device on the NFC scanner for example at a transaction kiosk and transfer the cost of the purchase to his or her post paid communication service account or to deduct the cost of the purchase from his or her pre paid communication service account balance. The retail store may link the customer payment transaction at the payment kiosk with a NFC scanner at the exit to prevent customers leaving with unpaid for merchandise. It is noted that the NFC scanners may be able to interrogate the RFID chip associated with the devices even when the battery installed in the devices is depleted and or when the devices are turned off because the RFID chip can be energized by an energizing field radiated by the NFC scanner as described above.

The system may likewise be advantageously applied in returns and or repair centers. The NFC scanner can determine the status of the mobile communication device by scanning the biographical digest . It is noted that the NFC scanner may be able to interrogate the RFID chip associated with the device even when the battery installed in the devices is depleted and or the device is turned off because the RFID chip can be energized by an energizing field radiated by the NFC scanner as described above. The refurbishment and or repair of the device may be completed more quickly and or more efficiently than if a bar code in the battery compartment instead needed to be scanned.

Turning now to a lifecycle of the mobile communication device is described. Upon completion of the manufacturing process the device may be in the new status. This corresponds to device inception . The device may ship to a distribution or order fulfillment center before being provided to end users at . When the device is activated at the status of the device may be changed to activated status. When the device is returned at the device may be reactivated at under a different set of parameters for example the device may be rebranded from a first service brand to a second service brand pursuant to a change of wireless communication subscription service by a user. Alternatively the device may be set to the refurbish status and returned to a distribution or order fulfillment center. Ultimately the device may transition to the device termination and receive the status dead or terminated.

In an embodiment the application may mediate the progress of the mobile communication device through the different phases of the lifecycle . In response to some event or trigger the application may change the device status and hence the state of the mobile communication device in the lifecycle . The application may generate the new device status information encode the information optionally encrypt the information and write the encoded and or encrypted information to the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the RFID chip . The application may enforce or restrict transitions between states based on rules that are programmed into or configured into the application.

After the application transitions the mobile communication device to the device termination state and writes the corresponding information to the device status in the dynamic portion of the biographical digest the application prohibits further writes to the dynamic portion . Additionally in an embodiment the application may cause attempts to activate the cellular radio transceiver the general purpose near field communication transceiver or other radio transceivers of the mobile communication device to fail. In an embodiment the application may make an exception in the case of an attempt to originate an emergency call for example a 911 call from the device .

Turning now to a method is described. At block a biographical digest is stored in a radio frequency identity chip of a mobile communication device at the time of manufacture of the communication device wherein the biographical digest comprises a static portion and a dynamic portion. In an embodiment the static portion comprises an identity of a model of the device an identity of a manufacturer of the device an identity of a location where the device was manufactured and an identity of an initial software version of the device. The static portion is write disabled by the manufacturer of the device for example after writing the appropriate information to the static portion. In an embodiment the dynamic portion comprises an identity of a current software version of the device and an identity of a device status having a value of new. The dynamic portion is left write enabled by the manufacturer of the device.

At block the device is activated for wireless communication service. At block the dynamic portion of the biographical digest is optionally updated. For example a software version identity a preferred roaming list identity or other configuration information of the device is updated and the dynamic portion of the biographical digest is changed modified written and or overwritten to correspond with the change. One of skill in the art will appreciate that the processing of block may never occur for example if the device is never updated with different configurations or software. Likewise one of skill in the art will appreciate that the processing of block may occur two or more times for example when the device is repeatedly updated and or reconfigured.

At block the device may progress to block where the device is deactivated for wireless communication service for example when the device is returned by a user. From block the processing may proceed to block . At block if the device is transitioning to a terminated or dead status the processing proceeds to block . At block the device status of the dynamic portion of the biographical digest is written to a value of dead or terminated in the RFID chip of the device for example the RFID chip . After the device status of the dynamic portion is written to a terminated or dead status the dynamic portion of the biographical digest may be disabled for writing. One of skill in the art will appreciate that different mobile communication devices may take different paths through the flow chart illustrated in .

Turning now to a method is described. At block a biographical digest is read from a radio frequency identity chip of a mobile communication device by a near field communication NFC scanner. At block based on reading the biographical digest a computer system coupled to the near field communication scanner determines at least three items of information about the device selected from a location where the device was manufactured an initial software version installed in the device by the manufacturer a current preferred roaming list PRI stored in the device a current software version installed in the device an activation date of the device a phone number of the device an international mobile station equipment identity IMEI of the device and a mobile equipment identity MEID of the device. At block based on the at least three items of information about the device determined by the computer system customer service is provided to a user of the mobile communication device.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a plurality of items of biographical device information are combined into a biographical digest wherein the items of biographical information comprise at least three items of information selected from a federal communications commission FCC identity a model identity a hardware version identity a manufacturer identity a country of manufacture a date of manufacture a location of manufacture an initial software version identity an initial preferred roaming list PRL version identity a secure element SE key a trusted security zone master key an initial stock keeping unit SKU identity an initial universal product code UPC identity a current preferred roaming list identity a current software version identity a current stock keeping unit identity a current universal product code identity a device status a device activation date a phone number of the device a current international mobile station equipment identity IMEI of the device and a current mobile equipment identity MEID of the device.

At block write the biographical digest to a radio frequency identity RFID chip of the mobile communication device wherein a portion of the biographical digest is maintained in a static state in the radio frequency identity chip and a portion the biographical digest is maintained in a dynamic state in the radio frequency identity chip. At block read the biographical digest from the radio frequency identity chip of the mobile device by a near field communication NFC scanner device. For further details of a biographical digest of a radio frequency identity chip see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 857 141 filed Apr. 4 2013 entitled Digest of Biographical Information for an Electronic Device with Static and Dynamic Portions by Kevin R. Cordes et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Turning now to a method that may be performed by a biographical digest software layer e.g. the application stored in the memory and executed by the processor or executed embedded in an operating system of the mobile device is described. At block determine by the biographical digest software layer inception information about the inception of the mobile communication device by reading information stored inside the mobile communication device. The inception information reflects the initial configuration and manufacturing conditions when the mobile communication device is first manufactured and or assembled. Some of the inception information may be provided to the mobile communication device and or the biographical digest software layer by an external source for example a manufacturing fixture and or workstation. At block encode the inception information wherein encoding the inception information is performed by the biographical digest software layer. Optionally the encoded inception information is encrypted with an encryption key.

At block the encoded inception information or the encrypted encoded inception information is written by the biographical digest software layer into the static portion of the biographical digest of the radio frequency identity chip that is communicatively coupled to the motherboard of the mobile communication device . At block after writing the encoded inception information or the encrypted encoded inception information to the static portion of the biographical digest the biographical digest software layer disables write access to the static portion of the biographical digest . In an embodiment the biographical digest software layer may verity the accuracy of the static portion before disabling access to the static portion . The biographical digest software layer may disable write access by commanding a manufacturing fixture to blow fuses in write lines associated with the static portion . Alternatively the biographical digest software may set a parameter or state value in the memory that indicates that the write access to the static portion is to be disabled and enforce this write prohibition based on reading that parameter or state variable.

At block in response to a triggering event the biographical digest software layer determines current information about the configuration of the mobile communication device by reading information stored inside the mobile communication device . The biographical digest software layer may also read information about the current configuration of the mobile communication device for example information about a current subscription plan from a service provider server not shown coupled to the network via the base transceiver station and the cellular transceiver . At block the current information about the configuration of the mobile communication device is encoded by the biographical digest software layer. Optionally the encoded current information is encrypted by the biographical digest software layer. At block the biographical digest software layer writes the encoded current information or the encrypted encoded current information into the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the radio frequency identity chip .

Turning now to a method is described. In an embodiment the method may be performed by the server computer or other device in completing a transfer of confidential information and or in completing a payment transaction. At block receive the biographical digest of information read from the radio frequency identity chip coupled to the mobile communication device by the near field communication NFC scanner . At block receive a security key from the mobile communication device via a wireless link between the mobile communication device and the base transceiver station . For example the mobile communication device sends an encryption key used to encrypt encoded information that is stored into the biographical digest . At block decrypt at least a part of the biographical digest information using the security key received via the wireless link. At block compare identifying information present in the decrypted part of the biographical digest information to identifying information associated with the mobile communication device. The information associated with the mobile communication device may be provided by the mobile communication device itself when transmitting the security key or may be known to the wireless communication network for example a radio access network RAN as a byproduct of granting the mobile communication device a wireless communication link from the base transceiver station .

At block when the identifying information corroborates and or agrees complete the confidential transaction initiated by the mobile communication device . This may be referred to in some contexts as a dual factor or a two factor authentication. A first factor may be deemed the information identifying the mobile communication device and the second factor may be the encrypted biographical digest information obtained from the NFC scanner . It is observed that the NFC scanner may be associated with a known location and may be an inherently trusted device.

Turning now to a method is described. The method may be performed by a biographical digest software layer e.g. the application executing on the processor of the mobile communication device . At block the biographical digest software layer encodes current information about the configuration of the mobile communication device wherein the current information comprises a current device status and at least two of a current software version identity a current preferred roaming list identity a current stock keeping unit identity or number a current universal product code a communication subscription service activation date a phone number a current mobile equipment identity MEID a current international mobile station equipment identity a current communication service provider identity and a current communication service brand identity.

At block the biographical digest software layer writes the encoded current information into the dynamic portion of the biographical digest of the radio frequency identity chip . At block the biographical digest software layer detects an end of lifecycle event. For example the service station sends an end of life or a termination request message along with an appropriate security key to the mobile device . At block in response to detecting the end of lifecycle event the application biographical digest software layer sets the current device status in the dynamic portion of the biographical digest to terminated. At block based on the terminated status of the current device status stored in the dynamic portion of the biographical digest the biographical digest software layer blocks access to the cellular radio transceiver of the mobile communication device . It is understood that the method may comprise other steps such as receiving requests to change the device status to refurbished or to change the device status to new. These requests may be processed by the biographical digest software layer to change the current device status if they are accompanied with appropriate security keys to authorize acting on the requests.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP . One skilled the art will appreciate that the DSP or other processors may interact with and communicate with the various components via one or more address bus not shown and or one or more data bus not shown .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modern banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

