---

title: Methods and systems for indicating application data use and providing data according to permissions
abstract: Methods and systems for indicating application data use and providing data according to permissions are described. An example method may include providing for display, by a computing device that includes one or more processors, a representation of a first indicator and the first indicator indicates a sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment of the computing device. The first indicator is configured to change states so as to further indicate an application running on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. The method further includes providing for display, by the computing device, a representation of a second indicator that identifies the application receiving the sensory data collected by the sensor of the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058096&OS=09058096&RS=09058096
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09058096
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
The present disclosure claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 893 510 filed on Oct. 21 2013 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Many techniques and systems exist for indicating application data use and providing data according to permissions. For example a sound recorder may include a visual indicator that indicates the sound recorder is collecting audio data and storing the data. By further example a computing device may include an application configured to run on the computing device. Based on being initiated the application may cause the computing device to request for an input indicating that the application is allowed to transmit data to a server.

In one example a method is provided that includes providing for display by a computing device that includes one or more processors a representation of a first indicator and the first indicator indicates a sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment of the computing device. The first indicator is configured to change states so as to further indicate an application running on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. The method further includes providing for display by the computing device a representation of a second indicator that identifies the application receiving the sensory data collected by the sensor of the computing device.

In another example a computer readable storage memory having stored therein instructions that when executed by a computing device that includes one or more processors cause the computing device to perform functions is provided. The functions comprise providing for display a representation of a first indicator and the first indicator indicates a sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment of the computing device. The first indicator is configured to change states so as to further indicate an application running on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. The functions further comprise providing for display a representation of a second indicator that identifies the application receiving the sensory data collected by the sensor of the computing device.

In still another example a system is provided that comprises one or more processors and memory configured to store instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the system to perform functions. The functions comprise providing for display a representation of a first indicator and the first indicator indicates the system is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment. The first indicator is configured to change states so as to further indicate an application running on the system is receiving and processing the sensory data. The functions further comprise providing for display a representation of a second indicator that identifies the application receiving the sensory data collected by the system.

In yet another example a system is provided that includes a means for providing for display a representation of a first indicator and the first indicator indicates the system is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment. The first indicator is configured to change states so as to further indicate an application running on the system is receiving and processing the sensory data. The system further comprises means for providing for display a representation of a second indicator that identifies the application receiving the sensory data collected by the system.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying figures.

The following detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative system and method embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It may be readily understood that certain aspects of the disclosed systems and methods can be arranged and combined in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are contemplated herein.

Within examples a computing device may be configured to provide for display a representation of a first indicator. The first indicator may indicate that a sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment of the computing device. The sensor may include a wireless internet receiver a radio antenna a GPS sensor a magnetometer a microphone a sound meter a photodetector an accelerometer or a camera as just some examples. Sensory data may include video data or audio data or any other type of data the sensor is configured to collect. The first indicator may be configured to changes states so as to further indicate an application running on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. The representation of the first indicator may be provided by a processor of the computing device and the first indicator may be displayed on a display screen of the computing device. The first indicator may be visually indicative of functions the application is configured to perform by using the sensory data.

Within examples a computing device may also be configured to provide for display a representation of a second indicator. The second indicator may identify an application receiving sensory data collected by a sensor of the computing device. The second indicator may also be configured to indicate that the application is denied access to the sensory data. The representation of the second indicator may be provided by a processor of the computing device and the second indicator may be displayed on a display screen of the computing device.

Within examples applications configured to run on a computing device may be configured to receive and process sensory data to run in a background on the computing device and listen for one or more predetermined keywords and to run in the background and store the sensory data. The applications may be further configured to transmit the sensory data away from the computing device. The computing device may also be configured to deny the application access to the sensory data.

Within examples a computing device may also be configured to provide a list of data use permissions. The computing device may be configured to receive a selection of one or more data use permissions pertaining to an application configured to run on the computing device and may provide sensory data to the application according to the selected data use permission.

The computing device may also be configured to provide a list of applications configured to run on the computing device. The computing device may receive a selection indicating at least one of the applications as an untrusted application. The computing device may also provide a list of data use permissions for untrusted applications and receive a selection of at least one data use permission for untrusted applications. The computing device may provide the sensory data to untrusted applications in accordance with the selected data use permissions for untrusted applications.

Referring now to the figures illustrates an example communication system by which an example method may be implemented. The system includes a computing device that may communicate with a server via one or more wired and or wireless interfaces. The computing device and the server may communicate within a network. Alternatively the computing device and the server may each reside within a respective network.

The computing device may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone or tablet computing device etc. that is configured to transmit data to or receive data from the server in accordance with the method and functions described herein. The computing device may include a user interface a communication interface a processor and data storage comprising instructions executable by the processor for carrying out one or more functions relating to the data sent to or received by the server . The user interface may include buttons a touchscreen a microphone and or any other elements for receiving inputs as well as a speaker one or more displays and or any other elements for communicating outputs.

The server may be any entity or computing device arranged to carry out the method and computing device functions described herein. Server may include the same components as computing device . Further the server may be configured to send data to or receive data from the computing device . The server may have a database module configured to receive data from multiple computing devices to aggregate and store the data and to provide for display the data in various forms. The database module may include information regarding applications that are configured for use on the computing device .

The data received by the server from the computing device may take various forms. For example the computing device may provide data regarding whether certain applications are installed on the computing device . The computing device may also provide data about sensory data collected by a sensor of the computing device . For example computing device may provide data to server that indicates that a certain amount of sensory data collected by a sensor of computing device may be audio or visual content. Data may indicate that the sensory data may have been collected by a wireless internet receiver radio antenna GPS sensor magnetometer microphone sound meter photodetector accelerometer or camera. The server may then store and aggregate the data for display.

The data sent to the computing device from the server may take various forms. For example the server may send to the computing device data indicative of applications that are configured to use the sensory data collected by a sensor of computing device .

Each of the applications and may include instructions that when executed cause the computing device to perform specific tasks or functions. The applications and may be native applications i.e. installed by a manufacturer of the computing device and or a manufacturer of the operating system or may be a third party applications installed by a user of the computing device after purchasing the computing device. The applications and may be configured to use sensory data collected by sensor s and provided by the CPU. A non exhaustive list of example applications includes a media player application that accepts media files as inputs and generates corresponding video and or audio to the output device s an e reader application which accepts electronic documents books magazines etc. as input and presents the content of the document via the output device s a feed reader that accepts feeds delivered over the Internet e.g. RSS feeds and or feeds from social network sites as input and presents the feeds via the output device s a map application that displays a map via the output device s a note taking application a voice recording application a media identifier application a voice transcription application a bookmarking application and a word processing spreadsheet and or presentation application that accepts specifically formatted files as inputs and presents them via the output devices for viewing and or editing.

The operating system may interact with and manage the hardware to provide services for the applications and . For example an application may request that the operating system direct an integrated camera of hardware to capture a visual image and that the hardware store the image to memory. The operating system may be executed by a CPU.

The hardware may include for example a central processing unit CPU a graphics processor GPU memory an input output I O interface user input device s and output device s . The hardware may also include speaker s and sensor s . Components of hardware may be controlled by instructions included in applications and and operating system .

The central processing unit CPU may for example comprise a single or multi core processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA and or any other suitable circuitry. The CPU may be operable to effectuate the operation of the computing device by executing instructions stored in memory or disk storage. Such instructions may include the operating system and the applications and . The CPU executing the instructions may cause sensory data to be written to or deleted from memory. The CPU may also receive sensory data from memory sensory data from sensor s and input data from an input output interface. The CPU may also provide output data to an input output interface.

The graphics processor may be operable to generate a video stream for output to a screen based on instructions and or data received from the CPU. That is data structures corresponding to images to be displayed on the screen may be stored to and read from the memory or disk storage by the CPU. The CPU may convey such data structures to the graphics processor via a standardized application programming interface API such as for example Standard Widget Toolkit SWT the DirectX Video Acceleration API the Video Decode Acceleration Framework API or other suitable API.

The memory may include program memory and run time memory. The memory may for example comprise non volatile memory volatile memory read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory magnetic storage and or any other memory. Program memory may store instructions executable by the CPU to effectuate operation of the operating system and the applications and . Runtime memory may store data generated or used during execution of the operating system or applications and

The input output I O interface may be operable to receive signals from input device s and provide corresponding signals to the CPU and or the graphics processor.

The input device s may include for example a mouse a touchpad a motion sensor a trackball a voice recognition device a keyboard or any other suitable input device which enables a user to interact with the computing device .

The output devices may include for example a screen and speakers. The screen may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD screen an OLED screen an e ink screen and or any other suitable device for presenting a graphical user interface.

The speaker s may be provided audio signals by the hardware and produce sound waves based on the audio signals. The audio signals may be provided by the hardware executing the applications or or the operating system . The sensor s may include a microphone configured to sense sound waves in the ambient environment of computing device . The sensor s may also produce an audio signal based on the sound waves in the ambient environment of computing device . The sensor s may provide the audio signal to hardware which may further provide the signal for use by the operating system and the applications or . The sensor s may also include a camera configured to sense light waves in the ambient environment of the computing device . The camera may be configured to collect both continuous video and still frame images. The sensor s may also produce a video signal based on the light waves in the ambient environment of the computing device . The sensor s may provide the video signal to the hardware which may further provide the signal for use by the operating system and the applications or . The sensor s may be configured to collect any sensory data including ambient audio or video content or wireless transmissions including internet streamed audio or video or AM FM radio.

The kernel may include drivers that enable software such as the operating system and applications to interact with input output devices. The kernel may also include power management processes that coordinate hardware power usage and provide alerts when an integrated battery is running low on power for example.

The libraries may include several subcomponents such as media framework graphics library and OpenGL ES . The media framework may include functionality that supports standard video audio and still frame formats. The graphics library may support two dimensional application drawing. The OpenGL ES may support gaming and three dimensional graphics rendering.

The operating system runtime may include core libraries and virtual machines . The virtual machines may be custom virtual machines that run a customized file format. The virtual machines may be used with an embedded environment since the virtual machines use runtime memory efficiently implement a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and support multiple virtual machine processes per device.

The application libraries may include libraries for view system resource manager and content providers . These application libraries may provide support for applications .

The applications may include any number of applications such as dialer messaging voice recorder media identifier and voice transcriber . The dialer may provide functionality related to placing or receiving phone calls. The messaging may provide functionality related to receiving and sending messages such as email voice mail or text messages. The voice recorder may provide functionality related to sensing ambient sound waves and converting the sound waves into electronic data. The media identifier may provide functionality related to determining the source of audio data. For example if the audio data represents a musical recording media identifier may access a database to determine the artist s who composed the recording and when the recording was recorded. The voice transcriber may provide functionality related to sensing ambient sound waves and converting the sound waves into data representing text. For example the voice transcriber may be provided an input representing audible speech and may produce output data representing an English transcription of the audible speech. The voice transcriber may be configured to produce outputs in many languages.

The system services may include status bar application launcher and package manager . The status bar may provide functionality related to providing system notifications. The application launcher may provide functionality related to organization and execution of applications . The package manager may maintain information for installed applications .

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium a tangible storage device or other article of manufacture for example.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

Functions of the method may be fully performed by a processor of a computing device by a computing device or may be distributed across multiple processors or multiple computing devices and or a server. In some examples the computing device may receive information from sensors of the computing device or where the computing device is a server the information can be received from another device that collects the information.

At block the method includes receiving an indication that a sensor of a computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment. The indication may be an electronic signal received by a processor of the computing device and provided by the sensor. The sensor may be a wireless internet receiver a radio antenna a GPS receiver a magnetometer a microphone a sound meter a photodetector an accelerometer or a camera. The computing device may be a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer or a smartphone. The sensory data collected from the ambient environment of the computing device may include audio data or visual data or any sensory data that the computing device is configured to detect. For example the sensor may include a microphone configured to collect audio data and the indication may further indicate that the microphone is continuously collecting audio data from the ambient environment. By further example the sensor may be a camera configured to collect video data and the indication may further indicate that the camera is continuously collecting video data from the ambient environment.

At block the method includes providing for display a representation of a first indicator. The representation of the first indicator may be provided by the processor and the first indicator may be displayed on a display of the computing device. The first indicator may be displayed based on receiving the indication that the sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment of the computing device. The first indicator may indicate that the sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from the ambient environment of the computing device. For example the sensor may include a microphone and the first indicator may resemble a microphone. The first indicator may blink intermittently or otherwise be configured to indicate that the sensor is collecting sensory data.

The first indicator may also be configured to change states to one of a plurality of states. One state may indicate an application running on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. Another state may indicate the application is running in a background on the computing device and listening for one or more predetermined keywords. For instance the application may be configured to perform a function based on detection of the one or more predetermined keywords. Another state change may indicate the application is running in the background on the computing device and storing the sensory data in a memory device. A microphone indicator may include a red circular background that blinks intermittently to indicate that sensory data is being stored and another indicator may show a visual representation of a memory device indicating that sensory data is being stored in the memory device. Yet another state change may indicate the application is running in the background or a foreground on the computing device and is transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device. Still another state change may indicate the application is denied access to the sensory data. Any combination of state changes may also be represented as well.

A change of state may include any number of visual changes to the indicator combined with any number of audio or physical outputs of the computing device. Some examples are described above. As another example the first indicator may be configured to blink or change colors in a manner indicating that the microphone is actively listening for keywords. The first indicator may resemble a microphone enclosed by a circle and the first indicator may be further configured to display a visual representation of sound waves or sound intensity levels that are being received by the sensor. The first indicator may further include text or icons representing the keywords or text or icons representing the function that the computing device is configured to perform based on detecting the keywords. By further example the first indicator may resemble a human ear indicating that the application is running in the background and listening for one or more predetermined keywords. Further audio outputs may be combined with a state change to notify a user or the computing device may also be configured to vibrate as well as a notification of a state change.

At block the method includes determining whether a given application running on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. Applications running on the computing device may include for example a media identifier application a speech recognition application a word processor application a GPS enabled navigation application and a video conferencing application. The processor may determine whether the given application is receiving and processing the sensory data based on outputs of the application for example.

At block the method includes providing for display a representation of a second indicator that identifies the application receiving the sensory data collected by the sensor of the computing device. The representation of the second indicator may be provided by the processor and the second indicator may be displayed by the display of the computing device. The second indicator may be a visual representation of a function the application is configured to perform or may be a symbol otherwise recognizable as associated with the application. For example the application may be a word processor application and the second indicator may resemble a notepad. The second indicator may be displayed based on determining that a given application is running on the computing device and is receiving and processing the sensory data. The second indicator may be further configured to identify the application that is denied access to the sensory data.

The first and second indicators may be included in a first row of the display. The first row may further include text indicating whether the application is denied access to the sensory data and text further identifying the application. The display may be included in a notification area or a notification drawer of an interactive display screen of the computing device. The notification area may be an area of the interactive display screen designated for displaying notification icons. The notification drawer may be an area of the interactive display screen designated for displaying notifications. The notification drawer may be displayed based on receiving an input at the notification area.

The method may further include providing for display text indicative of one of the plurality of states. The text may be included in the first row of the display. The plurality of states may include the application is running in the background on the computing device and listening for one or more predetermined keywords that cause the application to perform a function. The plurality of states may further include the application is running in the background on the computing device and storing the sensory data. The plurality of states may further include the application is running in the background or a foreground on the computing device and transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device. The method may be useful to indicate a specific type of data use or uses by the application.

The method may further include providing a mute toggle button in a second row of the display. The mute toggle button may be selectable to indicate whether the application is allowed access to the sensory data. For example receiving an input at the mute toggle button may change a state of the computing device from allowing the application to access the sensory data to denying the application access to the sensory data. Selecting the mute toggle button for the application may leave sensory data access permissions for other applications unchanged. The selection may be received by the interactive display screen of the computing device.

The method may further include providing a permissions button in the second row of the display. The permissions button may be selectable to indicate a list of data use permissions for the application. The selection may be received by the interactive display screen of the computing device. A list of data use permissions for the application may be displayed based on receiving an input at the permissions button.

The method may further include providing for display a list of one or more data use permissions for the application. The one or more data use permissions may respectively describe functions the application is configured to perform by accessing the sensory data. A selection of a permission can be received and sensory data may be provided to the application for use in accordance with the selected permission. The one or more data use permissions may include running in the background on the computing device and listening for one or more predetermined keywords running in the background on the computing device and storing the sensory data and running in the background or the foreground on the computing device and transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device.

The method may further include providing for display a list of one or more applications configured to run on the computing device and receiving a selection indicating that an application of the one or more applications is an untrusted application. An untrusted application may be an application allowed to access sensory data subject to selected data use permissions. A selected data use permission may describe a function that an untrusted application is configured to perform by accessing sensory data. In addition data use permissions can be provided and selected indicating that a permission of the one or more data use permissions applies to a given untrusted application configured to run on the computing device. Sensory data can be provided to the untrusted application for use in accordance with the selected data use permission. The one or more data use permissions may include running in the background on the computing device and listening for one or more predetermined keywords running in the background on the computing device and storing the sensory data and running in the background or the foreground on the computing device and transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device.

The notification area may be displayed near a perimeter of the interactive display screen of the computing device and may be designated to display symbols indicative of notifications. The first indicator may be a symbol indicative of a notification indicating that the application is receiving and processing the sensory data. The notification area may be configured to receive input indicating to display a notification drawer.

The first indicator may include a visual representation of a microphone. However the first indicator may also include a visual representation of any sensor of the computing device. For example the first indicator may resemble a video camera. The first indicator may blink intermittently or be otherwise animated within the interactive display screen of the computing device to indicate that the sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment. The first indicator may change states to indicate that an application configured to run on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. For example while the application is running in a background on the computing device and listening for predetermined keywords the first indicator may resemble a microphone within a circular background. By further example the first indicator may resemble a human ear.

The condensed notification may include the first indicator and the second indicator in a common row. The condensed notification may be displayed in the notification drawer of the interactive display screen and may include text in the common row indicating that the sensor is collecting sensory data and that the application is receiving and processing the sensory data. For example the text may indicate that application A is listening for predetermined keywords.

The first indicator may be proportionally larger than the first indicator but may otherwise be identical in appearance. However the first indicator may also be a more detailed visual representation of the sensor. The first indicator may resemble any visual representation that indicates that the application is listening for predetermined keywords.

The second indicator may be a visual representation of the application receiving and processing sensory data. For example application A may be a word processing application and the second indicator may resemble a notepad. The second indicator may also be any symbol recognizable as associated with application A.

The expanded notification may include the first indicator the second indicator the mute toggle button and the permissions button . The expanded notification may be displayed in the notification drawer of the interactive display screen. The expanded notification may include a first row and a second row. The first row may include the first indicator and the second indicator . The second row may include the mute toggle button and the permissions button . The first row may be above the second row. In another example the indicators may be included in columns or the second row may be displayed above the first row.

The mute toggle button may be selectable to indicate whether the application is allowed to access sensory data. For example an input received at the mute toggle button may change the state of the computing device from allowing application A to receive and process sensory data to denying application A access to the sensory data. Receiving another input at the mute toggle button may change the state of the computing device from denying application A access to the sensory data to allowing application A to receive and process sensory data. The mute toggle button may include text indicating whether the application is receiving and processing the sensory data. Selecting the mute toggle button for the application may have no effect on whether other applications configured to run on the computing device are allowed to access sensory data or are denied access to the sensory data.

The permissions button may be selectable to indicate a list of data use permissions for the application. For example based on receiving an input at the permissions button the computing device may display a list of selectable data use permissions. Based on selections received the device may apply the one or more selected data use permissions to the application and the application may be provided sensory data in accordance with the permissions. The permissions button may include text indicating the function of the permissions button . Data use permissions may include allowing the application to run in a background on the computing device and to listen for one or more predetermined keywords allowing the application to run in the background on the computing device and to store the sensory data and allowing the application to run in the background or a foreground on the computing device and to transmit the sensory data away from the computing device.

The notification area may be an area of the interactive display screen of the computing device designated to display symbols indicative of notifications. The notification area may include the first indicator .

The first indicator may indicate that the application is receiving and processing the sensory data. In some examples the application may be storing sensory data to the memory device of the computing device and the first indicator may include a representation of the memory device. The first indicator may also resemble a microphone superimposed over a red circular background. The first indicator may be configured to blink intermittently so as to indicate that the application is storing the sensory data.

Condensed notification may include a first indicator and second indicator . Condensed notification may also include text indicative that a sensor of a computing device is collecting sensory data and that the application is storing the sensory data.

The first indicator may include a visual representation of a microphone. However the first indicator may also include any visual representation of any sensor of the computing device. For example the first indicator may resemble a video camera. The first indicator may blink intermittently or be otherwise animated within the interactive display screen of the computing device to indicate that a sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment. The first indicator may be configured to change states to indicate that the application configured to run on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. For example while the application is running in a background on the computing device and storing the sensory data in a memory device the first indicator may resemble a microphone within a circular background. The microphone and the background may both have a red color. The first indicator may further be configured to blink intermittently to indicate that the application is running in the background of the computing device and storing sensory data. By further example while the application is running in the background on the computing device and storing sensory data in a memory device the first indicator may resemble a microphone and not include a circular background. By further example the first indicator may include a representation of a memory device indicating that the application is running in the background on the computing device and storing sensory data in the memory device.

The second indicator may be a visual representation of the application storing sensory data or any symbol recognizable as being associated with the application.

The expanded notification may include the first indicator the second indicator the mute toggle button and the permissions button . The expanded notification may be displayed in the notification drawer of the interactive display screen. The expanded notification may include a first row and a second row. The first row may include the first indicator and the second indicator . The second row may include the mute toggle button and the permissions button .

The first indicator may indicate that the application is storing sensory data to the memory device and may include a representation of the memory device. The first indicator may also resemble a microphone superimposed over a red circular background. The first indicator may be configured to blink intermittently so as to indicate that the application is storing the sensory data.

The second indicator may be a visual representation of the application storing sensory data or any symbol recognizable as being associated with the application.

The mute toggle button may be configured to receive input indicating to change whether the application is receiving the sensory data. For example in a state where the application is being denied the sensory data a selection at the mute toggle button may change the state of the computing device so that the application is receiving sensory data.

The permissions button may be configured to receive input indicating to display a list of data use permissions corresponding to the application. The list of data use permissions may also be selectable so as to indicate data use permissions that are applied to the application.

The notification area may be an area of the interactive display screen of the computing device designated to display symbols indicative of notifications. The notification area may include the first indicator .

The first indicator may indicate that the application is transmitting sensory data away from the computing device. The first indicator may include several concentric circles emanating from a microphone indicating that the application is transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device. The concentric circles may include dashed or solid lines and may be animated to resemble radio waves radiating away from the microphone. By further example the first indicator may resemble a satellite dish or a transmitting antenna indicating that the sensory data is leaving the computing device.

The condensed notification may include a first indicator . The condensed notification may include text indicating that a sensor of a computing device is collecting sensory data and that an application configured to run on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. For example the text may indicate that application A is transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device.

The first indicator may include a visual representation of a microphone. However the first indicator may also be any visual representation of any sensor of the computing device. For example the first indicator may resemble a video camera. The first indicator may blink intermittently or be otherwise animated within the interactive display screen of the computing device to indicate that a sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment. The first indicator may be configured to change states to indicate that an application configured to run on the computing device is receiving and processing the sensory data. For example while the application is running in the foreground or the background on the computing device and transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device the first indicator may resemble a microphone within a circular background. The first indicator may further be configured to blink intermittently to indicate that the application is running in the foreground or the background on the computing device and transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device. By further example while the application is running in the foreground or the background on the computing device and transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device the first indicator may resemble a microphone and not include a circular background. By further example the first indicator may include several concentric circles emanating from a microphone indicating that the application is transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device. The concentric circles may include dashed or solid lines and may be animated to resemble radio waves radiating away from the microphone. By further example the first indicator may resemble a satellite dish or a transmitting antenna indicating that the sensory data is leaving the computing device.

The expanded notification may include the first indicator the second indicator the mute toggle button and the permissions button . The expanded notification may be displayed in the notification drawer of the interactive display screen. The expanded notification may include a first row and a second row. The first row may include the first indicator and the second indicator . The second row may include the mute toggle button and the permissions button .

The first indicator may include several concentric circles emanating from a microphone indicating that the application is transmitting the sensory data away from the computing device. The concentric circles may include dashed or solid lines and may be animated to resemble radio waves radiating away from the microphone. By further example the first indicator may resemble a satellite dish or a transmitting antenna indicating that the sensory data is leaving the computing device.

The second indicator may be a visual representation of the application transmitting sensory data or any symbol recognizable as being associated with the application.

The mute toggle button may be configured to receive input indicating to change whether the application is receiving the sensory data. For example in a state where the application is being denied access to the sensory data a selection at the mute toggle button may change the state of the computing device so that the application is receiving sensory data.

The permissions button may be configured to receive input indicating to display a list of data use permissions corresponding to the application. The list of data use permissions may also be selectable so as to indicate data use permissions that are applied to the application.

The notification area may be an area of the interactive display screen of the computing device designated to display symbols indicative of notifications. The notification area may include the first indicator .

The first indicator may indicate that the application is denied access to the sensory data. The first indicator may include a representation of a microphone within a circular area. For example the circle may include dashed segments and a diagonal line bisecting the circle distinguishing the first indicator from other embodiments representing states where the application is receiving the sensory data.

The condensed notification may include a first indicator . The condensed notification may include text indicative that the sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data and the application is denied access to the sensory data.

The first indicator may include a visual representation of a microphone. However the first indicator may also be a visual representation of any sensor of the computing device. For example the first indicator may resemble a video camera. The first indicator may blink intermittently or be otherwise animated within the interactive display screen of the computing device to indicate that the sensor of the computing device is collecting sensory data from an ambient environment. The first indicator may also be configured to change states to indicate that an application configured to run on the computing device is denied access to the sensory data. For example while the sensor is collecting sensory data and the application is denied access to the sensory data the first indicator may resemble a microphone within a circular background with one or two diagonal line segments superimposed over the microphone. The circle may include dashed segments so as to be distinguishable from other embodiments of indicators that indicate that the application is receiving and processing sensory data. The first indicator may further be configured to blink intermittently to be noticeable. The first indicator may also resemble a human ear with one or two diagonal line segments superimposed on the ear so as to indicate that the application is denied access to the sensory data being collected by the sensor.

The expanded notification may include the first indicator the second indicator the mute toggle button and the permissions button . The expanded notification may be displayed in the notification drawer of the interactive display screen. The expanded notification may include a first row and a second row. The first row may include the first indicator and the second indicator . The second row may include the mute toggle button and the permissions button .

The first indicator may indicate that the application is denied access to sensory data. By further example first indicator may include a microphone enclosed in a circular background. The circular background may include dashed segments so as to distinguish the first indicator from other embodiments that indicate that the application is receiving sensory data.

The second indicator may be a visual representation of the application transmitting sensory data or any symbol recognizable as being associated with the application.

The mute toggle button may be configured to receive input indicating to change whether the application is receiving the sensory data. For example in a state where the application is being denied the sensory data a selection at the mute toggle button would change the state of the computing device so that the application is receiving sensory data.

The permissions button may be configured to receive input indicating to display a list of data use permissions corresponding to the application. The list of data use permissions may also be selectable so as to indicate data use permissions that are applied to the application.

The data use icons may be visual representations of data uses A C respectively. The data uses A C may represent functions that applications configured to run on a computing device may perform with sensory data collected by a sensor of the computing device. The data use icons may be visual depictions of functions represented by data uses A C respectively. For example the data use icon may appear to be a visual depiction of a radio transmitter and may indicate a data use that includes transmitting sensory data away from the computing device. By further example the data use icon may resemble a memory device and may indicate a data use that includes storing sensory data to a memory device. The data use may resemble a human ear and may indicate a data use that includes listening for predetermined keywords within the sensory data.

The data use checkboxes may be indicative of whether the data uses A C are respectively allowed for applications configured to run on the computing device. For example the data use checkbox may be unchecked or void of markings indicative that data use A is applied to an application configured to run on the computing device. The application may be denied access to data for use in accordance with data use A. The data use checkboxes and may be checked or marked in a manner indicating that data use B and data use C are applied to the application. The application may be allowed to use data in accordance with data use B and data use C. The data use checkboxes may indicate selected data uses for either a single application or a plurality of applications.

The application icons may be visual representations of applications A B and C respectively. Applications A C may be configured to run on the computing device and to use sensory data collected by a sensor of the computing device. The application icons may be visual depictions of a function of the respective applications or may be a symbol otherwise recognizable as being associated with the application. For example the application icon may appear to be a visual depiction of a notepad and may represent application A associated with a word processor.

The application checkboxes may be indicative of whether applications A C are untrusted applications respectively. For example the application checkbox may be unchecked or void of markings indicating that application A is not an untrusted application. Application A may be provided sensory data without regard to data use permissions associated with untrusted applications. By further example the application checkboxes and may be checked or marked in a manner indicating that application B and application C are untrusted applications. The sensory data may be shared with applications B and C subject to selected data use permissions corresponding to untrusted applications. Alternatively checkmarks or markings appearing within the application checkboxes may indicate that applications A C respectively are not untrusted applications. Applications A C may access data without regard to data use permissions associated with untrusted applications.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location or other structural elements described as independent structures may be combined.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

