---

title: Remote autonomous replenishment buoy for sea surface craft
abstract: An apparatus for servicing one or more water vessels, in particular, the invention is directed towards an autonomous replenishment buoy for fueling one or more water vessels. The autonomous replenishment buoy has a first configuration when not servicing water vessels, and a second configuration when performing fueling or other servicing functions. The autonomous replenishment buoy may float at the surface of the water, or may be moored beneath the surface of the water in the first configuration when not servicing water vessels. The autonomous replenishment buoy may transform from the first configuration to the second configuration to perform fueling and other services on water vessels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943992&OS=08943992&RS=08943992
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08943992
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130627
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

This application is related to concurrently filed U.S. Provisional patent application 61 840 349 hereby incorporated by reference entitled Hummingbird Fueling Station for Sea Surface Water Vessels by inventor Scott Peterson.

The following description relates generally to an apparatus for servicing one or more water vessels in particular the invention is directed towards an autonomous replenishment buoy for fueling one or more water vessels capable of mooring beneath the surface of the water and capable for transforming from a first configuration to a second configuration.

This invention is directed towards a class of surface water vessels capable of missions with an extended range or prolonged operational period that might benefit from an intermediate refueling capability or local refueling capability in lieu of returning to the host ship for fuel and including aluminum hulled vessels of about 40 feet displacing over 20 000 pounds. These vessels may be unmanned surface vessels USVs powered by internal combustion engines driving one or more propellers or waterjets. Fuel capacity generally ranges between 400 to 800 gallons which translates to a limited endurance while performing the mission for which they were designed and a limited range. All must be brought to the mission area by a larger host vessel.

Generally each USV must be retrieved from the sea and brought on board the host vessel to be refueled. This reduces the percentage of time the USVs are conducting their mission reducing their effectiveness and also causes the host vessel to remain relatively close to the mission area. Exposing a manned ship to a mission area is undesirable. Operational risk can be reduced by reducing the time a manned ship must stay in mission areas or by increasing the host ship s distance from these areas. While recovering the host vessel may be restricted in course and speed unable to launch and recover other USVs and not able to operate other systems which limits its efficiency. If the host vessel can only launch recover one USV at a time as is typically the case this creates a queuing problem for groups of USVs and subtracts from the total mission time available as all must wait while each unit is replenished and re launched before returning to the mission area. Deteriorating sea conditions may make recovery difficult dangerous or impossible and disrupt the USVs mission. It is therefore desired to have an autonomous replenishment station other than a parent ship in the vicinity of the USVs to perform services such as fueling so that it is not necessary to travel back to the parent ship.

In one aspect the invention is an autonomous replenishment buoy for servicing one or more water vessels wherein each of the one or more water vessels has a probe extending from the bow of the respective water vessel. In this aspect the autonomous replenishment buoy has a main cylindrical body and a fuel receptacle within the main cylindrical body. The autonomous replenishment buoy also has one or more probe receiving members each of the one or more probe receiving members for receiving a water vessel probe therein. The autonomous replenishment buoy also has one or more servicing arms. Each servicing arm has an energy absorbing and guiding portion for guiding and absorbing the energy of an incoming water vessel. According to the invention the autonomous replenishment buoy has a first configuration in a non deployed state and a second configuration in a deployed state wherein the in the first configuration the autonomous buoy comprises the substantially cylindrical body with the energy absorbing guide arrangement contained within the substantially cylindrical body and in the second configuration the energy absorbing guide arrangement and the probe receiving member extend from the substantially cylindrical body.

The invention is directed towards an autonomous replenishment buoy having a first and second configuration. As outlined below the buoy has a first configuration when it is stored or when it is positioned in open water. In the first configuration the buoy may be held beneath the surface of the water where it is not visible. The autonomous replenishment buoy may be in the second configuration when deployed performing servicing functions. is an exemplary illustration of a first configuration of an autonomous replenishment buoy according to an embodiment of the invention. As outlined below the autonomous replenishment buoy may be used in at sea or open water applications to provide fuel and or other maintenance services to water vessels such as recharging energy supplies etc.

Returning to the replenishment buoy has a first configuration that is substantially cylindrical in shape. As outlined below the autonomous replenishment buoy has a main body having servicing elements therein including a fuel receptacle . The fuel receptacle may be a bladder having any other desired shape and may be affixed to the top wall of the main body by means of webbing straps. According to an embodiment of the invention the fuel receptacle is a bladder having a truncated cone shape that is vertically oriented that collapses upwards into itself as fuel is drained. The main body may be a rigid integral housing having a plurality of hatches which provide opening through which servicing elements may extend when the buoy is deployed. According to an embodiment of the invention the bottom of the main body may be opened or may have an opening to allow mooring elements to extend below the buoy . According to an embodiment of the invention the combination of this opened bottom and the fuel receptacle being a bladder may be used to add buoyancy to the autonomous replenishment buoy . According to this embodiment the bladder bears on the underside of the top of the main body . The fuel in the bladder will contribute to the total buoyancy of the buoy because the fuel is lighter than the sea water. As fuel is removed the bladder will collapse upwards and sea water will displace the transferred volume. The density difference will provide enough pressure to lift the fuel to and prime an associated transfer pump.

The servicing elements may be constructed from a combination of metals reinforced plastics and compliant materials such as urethane forms that may be spring biased. The servicing elements may also be or have inflatable elements. The substantially cylindrical first configuration may be maintained by folding and or releasably locking the compliant materials about each other in a manner that allows for easy release when deployed. The collapsible features reduce the overall volume allowing the replenishment buoy to be folded and stored in the first configuration . This allows the replenishment buoy to be fitted into an International Standards Organization compatible shipping enclosure simplifying shore storage and transportation. This also allows for deployment into the water from different types of transportation. For example the replenishment buoy may be deployed from the deck of a large parent ship by lifting overboard with a crane rolling overboard or launching from a stem ramp or the like. The replenishment buoy may also be deployed from a helicopter airplane or subsurface water vessel. It should be noted that although shows configuration as cylindrical the configuration may have alternative shapes such as spherical or cubical.

As stated above the autonomous replenishment buoy in its first configuration may be deployed to a desired area by offloading from an aircraft ship or subsurface water vessel where it is allowed to float on the surface. Thus the replenishment buoy may remain in the first configuration at the surface until servicing operations are required at which time it converts to a second configuration. Alternatively the replenishment buoy may dive beneath the surface of the water until needed. The subsurface condition is by lowering the down weight by winding down the cables and attached anchor and then by flooding the ballast tank in the ballast tank assembly . According to an embodiment of the invention the anchor lowered is lowered till it reaches the sea floor which moors the buoy . The down weight reduces the ground tackle scope requirements. The down weight is smooth and free of features that may entangle the sea floor . According to an embodiment of the invention the ground weight may also be lowered to the sea floor.

As shown in the autonomous replenishment buoy hangs suspended in the water above the down weight . As outlined below signals from the communications device of the water vessel will cause the buoy to release air into the air chamber in the ballast assembly and resurface. The water vessel may be a USV and the communications device may emit acoustic signals which are received by a transponder on the autonomous replenishment buoy . As stated above a gas source to refloat the buoy could be an automotive style Supplemental Restraint System SRS like an air bag a gas generator chemical or otherwise or stored gas under pressure in a metal or composite flask with the associated plumbing. According to a preferred embodiment the air supply is a compressed air source and associated compressor. The autonomous replenishment buoy may be required to submerge and resurface a plurality of times. Depending on the number of submerge surface cycles a means to re pressurize the flask may be required. If only one submerge surface evolution is required the system could release air from a buoyancy tank and submerge as described above and then simply utilize a pay out line to re surface.

As outlined above the water vessel may be a USV. As the water vessel approaches the buoy it contacts the servicing arm at the receiving portion . The contact is made in a side on manner as opposed to a head on manner. The collision energy is dissipated as the water vessel slides along the receiving portion shown at position . The water vessel may approach at about 4 6 knots. Because of the side on contact and the energy dissipation the water vessel is smoothly guided into the bow cradle portion i.e. the substantially V shaped aperture shown at position where the probe at the bow of the vessel is guided into the probe receiving portion . The width or angle of the V at the cradle portion is specifically dimensioned to allow the probe of the water vessel to make a connection at the probe receiving portion . It should be noted that as water vessel contacts and is guided by the energy absorbing and guiding portion the buoy is also moved about by this interaction with the water vessel . The motion of the buoy includes translation and rotation through the water which dissipates the kinetic energy and momentum of the water vessel . Remaining momentum drives the water vessel into the receiving portion .

The figures show the buoy in the second configuration having four bow cradle portions at the end of each arm for cradling the bow of a water vessel . As illustrated the probe receiving members are each positioned within the bow cradle portion . is an exemplary illustration of the vessel receiving operation of the autonomous replenishment buoy . shows the second configuration and as outlined above this includes the servicing arms which include the energy absorbing and guiding portions and the bow cradle portions . shows a water vessel in a first position and a second subsequent position . The positions and are merely exemplary illustrations of 2 of the many possible positions taken by the water vessel while docking at the autonomous replenishment buoy . As the water vessel which may be a USV approaches the buoy it contacts the servicing arm at one of the receiving portions . As outlined above each servicing arm is capable of receiving a water vessel on either side and with each arm having two bow cradle portions i.e. the substantially V shaped aperture at the end of the servicing arms . Thus in the second configuration there are 4 different bow cradles for receiving water vessels . In operation a water vessel approaches and contacts the buoy in a side on manner and the collision energy is dissipated as the water vessel slides along the receiving portion . The water vessel may approach at about 4 6 knots. Because of the side on contact and the energy dissipation the water vessel is smoothly guided into the respective bow cradle portion . The width or angle of the V at the cradle portion is specifically dimensioned to allow the probe of the water vessel to make a connection at the probe receiving portion . Similar to the embodiment outlined above with respect to as water vessel contacts and is guided by the energy absorbing and guiding portion the buoy is also moved about by this interaction with the water vessel . The motion of the buoy includes translation and rotation through the water which dissipates the kinetic energy and momentum of the water vessel . Remaining momentum drives the water vessel into the receiving portion .

As outlined above elements such as the servicing arms may be constructed from a combination of metals reinforced plastics and compliant materials such as urethane foam coupled with inflatable elements. Metal structure and weldments attaching the components such as the probe receivers provide a rigid mounting framework for machinery enclosures for water sensitive elements such as electronics and batteries and hard lifting and transportation interfaces. Extremely lightweight composite materials resistant to corrosion may also be used for minimal radar cross section. Galvanic protection may also be applied for buoys that are meant to be deployed for extended periods.

The controller is electronically connected to different elements of the ballast assembly . shows the controller electronically connected to the ballast pumps for pumping water into the ballast tank and the ballast air supply which may be a compressed air source and associated compressor for supplying air to the ballast tank. The controller is also connected to the powered winch for controlling the downward or upward Y direction vertical movement of the down weight in the mooring arrangement. By controlling the ballast assembly see and the mooring arrangement see the controller controls how the buoy dives below the surface of the water and how the buoy rises to the surface level of the water. As described with respect to these vertical controls are typically performed when the autonomous replenishment buoy is in the first configuration .

As stated above the controller also controls the transformation from the first configuration to a second configuration . As shown schematically in the controller is connected to an actuator for one or more latching devices that secure elements such as one or more servicing arms and a compressor for inflating the inflatable elements. By controlling the actuator and the compressor the controller controls the transformation of the buoy from the first configuration to a second configuration . So for example regarding the illustrations of when the controller actuates the actuator and compressor the buoy transforms from configuration to configuration with the single servicing arm .

The controller also receives communications from and sends communications to the water vessel . The controller may also receive and communicate with remotely located operators. The communications helps to govern the fueling and or other servicing activities. As shown in the controller is electronically attached to transponder that receives signals from signal transmitter . As outlined above the signal transmitter may emit an acoustic signal which is received by the transponder in the buoy . The signal sent by the transmitter of the water vessel may initiate a fueling process and according to an embodiment of the invention is sent when the water vessel is within a few hundred feet of the autonomous replenishment buoy . The autonomous replenishment buoy may receive the signal when it floats at the surface or when it is moored or suspended beneath the surface of the water as shown in . If the buoy is floating at the surface in response to the signal the controller initiates the conversion from the first configuration to the second configuration as outlined above. If the buoy is below the surface when it receives the signal the controller replenishes the ballast tank by supplying air from the air supply which allows the buoy to rise to the surface of the water. Then the controller initiates the transformation process from the first configuration to a second configuration by initiating the actuator and the compressor . Alternatively the controller may be programmed so that it performs the surfacing and transformation from the first configuration to a second configuration after a predetermined time has elapsed without receiving a signal from the water vessel . Thus according to this embodiment based on a programmed sequence of responses the controller supplies air to the ballast tank via the air supply which allows the buoy to rise to the surface of the water. This process may be supplemented by the removal of water from the ballast tank by initiating the pump . Then the controller initiates the transformation process from the first configuration to a second configuration .

After the autonomous replenishment buoy transforms from a first configuration to one of the second configurations the water vessel may approach the buoy as shown in B and C. Then as illustrated the water vessel which may be a USV contacts the one or more servicing arms each having an energy absorbing and guiding portion . The one or more servicing arms direct the water vessel towards the probe receiver so that the probe is properly inserted into the probe receiver thereby enabling the fuel and other services to be performed on the water vessel . During fueling the water vessel may transmit data to the autonomous replenishment buoy . The data may be transmitted via the signal transmitter or may be transmitted directly by means of data link that communicates with a similar link on the buoy. The data links may be wired links or may alternatively be wireless. The data transmitted from the water vessel may include data such as mission data which the buoy stores in a memory in the controller .

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example in addition to fueling the autonomous replenishment buoy may perform other servicing functions such as recharging batteries or other energy supplies etc. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

