---

title: Interferometric millimeter wave and THz wave doppler radar
abstract: A mixerless high frequency interferometric Doppler radar system and methods has been invented, numerically validated and experimentally tested. A continuous wave source, phase modulator (e.g., a continuously oscillating reference mirror) and intensity detector are utilized. The intensity detector measures the intensity of the combined reflected Doppler signal and the modulated reference beam. Rigorous mathematics formulas have been developed to extract bot amplitude and phase from the measured intensity signal. Software in Matlab has been developed and used to extract such amplitude and phase information from the experimental data. Both amplitude and phase are calculated and the Doppler frequency signature of the object is determined.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09103904&OS=09103904&RS=09103904
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09103904
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130430
---
The United States Government has rights in the invention described herein pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC as operator of Argonne National Laboratory.

The field of the invention generally relates to Doppler radar and more specifically certain implementations relate to interferometric millimeter wave and THz wave Doppler radar.

Doppler sensors have become widely used and utilize various frequencies. At microwave frequencies Doppler sensors are usually realized through the use of quadrature mixers. Microwave based sensors have inherently lower sensitivity greater than micrometer displacements than their optical counterparts. High frequency optical Doppler sensor has high sensitivity and lower interference with common consumer electronics. Further high frequency optical Doppler sensor is more directional and provides for more compact structures. However high frequency optical sensors have several drawbacks such as difficulty with alignment and diffraction loss due to surface roughness. Therefore optical Doppler sensors are not desirable for applications involving the detection of complex objects. Furthermore optical wavelengths cannot penetrate through many common materials such as fabrics plastics and insulation.

As both low frequency microwaves and high frequency optics have advantages and disadvantages certain systems have attempted to use the intermediate frequency spectrum between the low frequency microwaves and the high frequency optics. For example quadrature mixer based mmW Doppler radar has been recently studied for remote monitoring of vital signs by the authors group.

One embodiment relates to a Doppler system for detecting an object. The system comprises a continuous wave source. Further a beam splitter is provided. The system also includes a phase modulator and an intensity detector.

In another embodiment a method of detecting an object is provided. A continuous wave beam is emitted. The continuous wave beam is split into an object beam and a reference beam. The object beam is directed to the object. The reference beam is directed to a phase modulator. The phase of the reference beam is modulated to generate a modulated reference beam. An intensity detector receives the modulated reference beam and a reflected Doppler signal from the object.

In another embodiment a method of processing Doppler information is provided. A Doppler signal is received from an object. A reference signal is modulated. The combined intensity of the Doppler signal and the modulated reference beam is measured. The measured combined intensity is separated into Low Frequency Band and High Frequency Band signals. The amplitude and phase of the reflected signal from the object are determined. The Doppler frequency signature of the object based upon the determined amplitude and phase is determined.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the present disclosure may be set forth from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the present disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without further limiting the scope of the present disclosure claimed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

In one implementation a universal mixerless high frequency interferometric Doppler radar is provided. The implementation employs the optical interferometry technique that requires no quadrature mixer. It also differs from other conventional Mach Zehnder interferometry in that it adopts a continuously oscillating reference mirror to modulate the Doppler signal. By doing this both amplitude and phase can be extracted from only one intensity measurement In a particular implementation millimeter wavelengths and THz wavelengths are utilized with optical interferometry technique by using a CW Continuous Wave source and an intensity detector. A beam splitter is further utilized and a phase modulator. The detected intensity is the coherent addition of the reference beam and the reflected signal which in one implementation features a fast reference modulation on a slow modulation induced by the object. As further set forth below rigorous mathematical formulations are provided to solve for both the amplitude and the phase simultaneously. Once the phase is known Fourier transform is then used to study the Doppler frequency signature of a moving object. Examples are also set forth below a 94 GHz prototype and a 0.15 THz prototype utilized in experimental tests using a ball pendulum target with full swing distance much smaller than a wavelength to study the performance of the proposed interferometric Doppler radar.

For broadband Doppler signature the reference arm frequency needs to oscillate at a frequency that is higher than twice the Doppler frequency of the object to avoid overlapping of the LFB and HFB signals while for narrowband Doppler signature e.g. moving cars and aircrafts etc. the reference arm frequency only needs to 2 the bandwidth of the Doppler signature interferometric Doppler radar relies upon the effect of a phase modulator operating at 2Fto modulate the Doppler spectrum to its HFB and its LFB spectrum. The unknown amplitude and phase are derived from the measured HFB and LFB.

One implementation of the Doppler radar provides a system without the need for mixer based homodyne or heterodyne radar. For implementations utilizing mmW a mmW Gunn Oscillator may be used. Implementations can also be provided at the THz gap. For example as THz source either a Backward Wave Oscillator BWO or a THz Quantum Cascade Laser QCL could replace the mmW Gunn Oscillator and as intensity detector either a pyroelectric detector or a Hot Electron Bolometer HEB can be used. The mmW THz interferometric Doppler radar has many applications including vibration displacement measurement down to few m coating thin film thickness measurement dielectric constant characterization phase sensitive chemicals spectroscopy and phase contrast Non Destructive Evaluation NDE of dielectric materials.

In one implementation the phase modulator is a mechanically vibrating mirror which is different from the stationary steeping Mach Zehnder type interferometry such as FTIR. In another implementation the phase modulator is an electronically controllable dielectric material. Examples of such phase modulators include but are not limited to Pockel cells liquid crystal modulators and the like. Further it is possible to utilize thermally induced refractive index changes or length changes such as of an optical fiber or induced length changes by stretching.

Mathematically the intensity detector detects the combined reflected signal from the object E t and the reference beam E t plus the background E 

The intensity signal given in Eq. 2 can be separated into LFB Low Frequency Band and HFB High Frequency Band signals. To illustrate this let us decompose the reference phase t into Fourier series 

The amplitude and phase of the Doppler signal of the moving object can be solved from the LFB signal in Eq. 7 and HFB signal in Eq. 10 12 

With Jbeing the Bessel function of order 2 and I t and I t are first HFB and second HFB signals centered at first harmonics reference frequency and second harmonics reference frequency respectively.

After obtaining the reflected sub THz signal complex field amplitude and phase the Doppler frequency signature of the moving object can be analyzed. The Doppler frequency f t from the carrier frequency f is given by

Before the experiment a numerical simulation was performed to confirm the mathematical derivation given above. The following parameters are used for numerical simulation 1 0.1 cos 40 20 where n t is the added noise so that the SNR is 10 dB during the simulation. The intensity I t plot is shown in . The calculated LFB and HFB signals are shown in . The reconstructed amplitude a t and phase t are shown as circles in with great agreements with the initial values lines in Eq. 20 .

To test the performance of the proposed interferometric Doppler radar a 94 GHz prototype was built using a Gunn oscillator as source and a Schottky Barrier SB diode as intensity detector . The phase modulator was a reference mirror is oscillating at a frequency of 200 Hz with displacement amplitude of A 0.03 mm which is much smaller than the wavelength of 3.2 mm. This corresponds to the following parameters in Eq. 4 c 4 A 0.1181 J c 0.0588 J c 0 m 2 3 4 . . . c 0 J c 1 m 1 2 3 . . . . During the experiment a swinging ball pendulum with length L 15 cm was used as the moving object giving a swing frequency of

A sample segment of the measured intensity I t is shown in . The signal before approximately 45 s was collected with the reference mirror oscillating at 200 Hz. The reference mirror is kept stationary after approximately 45 s. shows the close up of a small segment of the measured intensity I t shown in . The 200 Hz modulation is evident before approximately 45 s with no modulation when the reference mirror ceased to oscillate after approximately 45 s.

The LFB signal given in Eq. 7 and HFB signal given in Eq. 10 are shown in top and bottom respectively. With LFB and HFB signals now available the amplitude and phase can be obtained by solving Eq. 12 to Eq. 15 with the results shown in . The displacement amplitude of the object a t is shown in top which has a mean value of t 0.0028. bottom shows the displacement phase of the object t . The full swing phase i.e. difference between phase maximum t and phase minimum t is 58 which corresponds to a full swing distance of D 0.2571 mm agreeing well with the experimentally set swing value of D 0.25 mm. The Doppler frequency signature can be obtained by taking the Fourier transform of t given in bottom . The result of the transformation is shown in . The measured pendulum frequency is f 1.275 Hz agreeing well with the theoretically calculated value of f 1.286 Hz. Finally the sensitivity of the 94 GHz prototype was determined to be 5 degrees which corresponding to 45 m displacement accuracy.

This example utilized a universal mixerless interferometric Doppler radar architecture employing a CW source and an intensity detector. A motorized oscillating reference mirror was used to modulate the intensity at a frequency higher than twice the object s Doppler frequency. The 94 GHz prototype was built and tested using a ball pendulum target with a full swing distance much smaller than the carrier wavelength. The mathematical formulation set forth above was derived to extract both the amplitude and the phase of the Doppler signal by decomposing the measured intensity into LFB and HFB signals. The measurement results were shown to agree well with the experimentally adjusted parameters such as pendulum frequency and full swing distance.

To further test the performance of the proposed interferometric Doppler radar a 0.15 THz prototype was built using Gunn oscillator as a source and Schottky Barrier SB diode as an intensity detector . The phase modulator was a reference mirror oscillating at a frequency of 190 Hz with amplitude of A 0.0388 mm much smaller than the wavelength of 2 mm. This corresponds to the following parameters in Eq. 4 c 4 A 0.1218 J c 0.0608 J c 0 m 2 3 4 . . . c 0 J c 1 m 1 2 3 . . . . During the experiment a swinging ball pendulum with length L 18 cm is used as the Doppler object giving a swing frequency of

Experimental results are provided for two typical cases 1 phase change smaller than 2 and 2 phase change larger than 2 . In the case of phase change smaller than 2 the full swing distance of the swinging pendulum was set to D 0.95 mm. The measured intensity I t is shown in top plot of top and the zoom view of the first 0.5 second is shown in the bottom plot of bottom . The LFB signal given in Eq. 7 and HFB signal given in Eq. 10 are shown in top and bottom plots of top and bottom respectively.

With LFB and HFB signals obtained in both amplitude and phase can be obtained by solving Eq. 12 to Eq. 14 shows the obtained amplitude a t and the phase t of the object. The full swing phase i.e. difference between phase maximum t and phase minimum t is obtained as 344 which corresponds to a full swing distance of D 0.96 mm agreeing well with the experimentally set value of D 0.95 mm. Doppler frequency signature can be obtained through Fourier transform of t given in which is shown in . The obtained pendulum frequency is f 1.21 Hz agreeing well with the aforementioned theoretical calculated value of f 1.17 Hz.

In the case of phase change larger than 2 the full swing distance of the swinging pendulum was set to D 1.85 mm. The measured intensity I t is shown in top plot of top and the zoom view of the first 0.5 seconds is shown in the bottom plot of bottom . The LFB signal given in Eq. 7 and HFB signal given in Eq. 10 are shown in top and bottom plots of top and bottom respectively.

With LFB and HFB signals obtained in both amplitude and unwrapped phase can be obtained by solving Eq. 12 to Eq. 14 shows the obtained amplitude a t and the phase t of the object. The full swing phase i.e. difference between phase maximum t and phase minimum is obtained as 666 which corresponds to a full swing distance of D 1.8503 mm agreeing well with the experimentally set value of D 1.85 mm. Doppler frequency signature can be obtained through Fourier transform of t given in which is shown in . The obtained pendulum frequency is f 1.16 Hz compared with the theoretical calculated value of f 1.17 Hz.

This example reflects a mixer less interferometric 0.15 THz Doppler radar. The sub THz Doppler radar architecture consisted of just a CW source and a Shottky diode intensity detector. A motorized oscillating reference mirror was used to modulate the intensity at a frequency higher than twice the object s Doppler frequency. The mathematical formulation above were used to extract both the amplitude and the unambiguous unwrapped phase of the Doppler signal by decomposing the measured intensity into LFB and HFB signals.

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting with respect to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

