---

title: Downloadable real estate service client component and server for a real estate service
abstract: An electronic infrastructure consisting a plurality of client mobile devices, a distribution server and a media creator computer, wherein the client mobile devices present interactive media upon user request. The plurality of client mobile devices support dynamic screen display and, contain a plurality of soft keys. The media creator is a personal computer that generates interactive media and sends them to the distribution server for distribution. The distribution server processes and sends the interactive media to the client mobile device and the client mobile devices presents the interactive media in a series of screens to the user. The client mobile devices interactively send the user responses back to the distribution server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615275&OS=08615275&RS=08615275
owner: 
number: 08615275
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130809
---
The present patent application is a continuation of claims priority to and makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 13 402 880 entitled MOBILE DEVICE THAT PRESENTS INTERACTIVE MEDIA AND PROCESSES USER RESPONSE filed on Feb. 23 2012 which in turn is a continuation of claims priority to and makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 13 093 733 filed Apr. 25 2011 patented as U.S. Pat. No. 8 180 276 entitled MOBILE DEVICE THAT PRESENTS INTERACTIVE MEDIA AND PROCESSES USER RESPONSE which is a continuation of claims priority to and makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 11 977 763 entitled MOBILE DEVICE THAT PRESENTS INTERACTIVE MEDIA AND PROCESSES USER RESPONSE filed on Oct. 25 2007 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 983 611. The complete subject matter of all the above referenced U.S. Patent Applications and patents is hereby incorporated herein by reference in their respective entirety.

The present patent application makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 11 821 771 entitled SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INTERACTIVE USER INTEREST SURVEY TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE filed on Jun. 25 2007 The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. provisional patent Ser. No. 60 860 700 entitled AUDIO GUIDED SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING GUIDANCE TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE ON MULTI STEP ACTIVITIES filed on Nov. 22 2006 The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 524 568 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 24 2003 The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 702 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 10 2004. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 530 175 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS AND A TRADING SYSTEM FOR CONTRACTS ON USER COMMITMENTS TO ANSWER QUESTIONNAIRES filed on Dec. 17 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 977 764 entitled MEDIA DISTRIBUTION SERVER THAT PRESENTS INTERACTIVE MEDIA TO A MOBILE DEVICE filed on Oct. 25 2007. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to mobile content processing and more particularly to display of interactive media by a mobile device.

Cell mobile phones are widely used as mobile devices to communicate anywhere in the world. Some of them are very simple devices capable of voice communication alone. Many other today s mobile devices are used for multiple purposes other than voice communication in any convenient location.

They keep record of appointments and schedules store addresses present calendars surf Internet play games among many other purposes. They are capable of playing music and other audio clips and also play video clips and movies. They can be networked with external devices such as other mobile phones laptops and personal computers and modems via infrared Bluetooth and wifi interfaces. This enormously increases their functionality when compared to just few years ago.

Today s mobile devices have extensive processing ability and capable accomplishing many tasks that were usually meant for personal computer alone. However battery life is always a concern with batteries needing to be charged every couple of days. Some modern mobile devices have wide screens with alpha numeric keyboards and many soft programmable keys. These devices are programmable and have ability to download programs such as XML eXtensible Markup Language files and run them on mobile devices. These programs accomplish many tasks such as managing daily tasks assisting marketing keeping data and files stored managing databases etc. However today the range of these programs are very limited and they accomplish far less tasks than there is demand among people.

These and other limitations and deficiencies associated with the related art may be more fully appreciated by those skilled in the art after comparing such related art with various aspects of the present invention as set forth herein with reference to the figures.

The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Drawings the Detailed Description of the Invention and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The display of interactive media begins with a welcome screen refer to the description of for more details . The welcome screen may contain a splash message audio visual message letting the user know about the services provided by the distribution server and providing a multiple choice selections. These selections allow user to pick one of many categories of interactive media. For example the welcome screen with a list of interactive media presented may contain categories as advertisements questionnaires product lists for review real estate list for properties on sale cartoons audio guided activities etc. The user is prompted by soft keys or buttons to Select or Create. Instead of a multiple choice selections a list of available interactive media is also selectively provided to allow a user to select from rather than prompting selection starting with a set of selectable categories.

As a next step when the user selects one of the categories in the welcome screen a splash screen containing an audio visual message of a product questionnaire preamble real estates cartoon preamble or audio visual guided activity preamble appears refer to the description of for more details . The splash screen is typically a first portion of an interactive media selected by the user. The splash screen an audio visual message screen may be ongoing such as advertisements running continuously by the distribution server or user selected. The splash screen will also in some embodiments present a welcome message a first portion of an interactive media and selectable menu items and buttons. Alternatively the splash screen may be selected on the basis of priorities set by the distribution server the priorities may be set based upon user data available or price paid by the agent seller or service provider. For example when the user presses select using a soft key after scrolling through list presented and highlighting one of them the current interactive media is selected and displayed in next screen where soft keys presented may be start info and supplementary info. The user is also presented a welcome text message on screen essentially a splash screen with an audio welcome message presented too. Activating Info would provide audio message called preamble .

At a next screen a list of options is presented depending upon the category selected and the user is allowed to select one of these options. For example if the user presses start button then the first item from the interactive media a list of products or a list of questions etc is presented. The soft keys are info supplementary info next previous and print. Alternatively the soft keys can be info request next previous and print with request bringing up additional selection choices.

The request soft key provides an additional screen with a message and various soft key options. The additional choices that the request soft key brings are supplementary info appointment sample trial as relevant not all three but those that apply to the item under display. For example if current item has any sample associated it can be requested if appointment can be made it can be requested and so on. The XML data for the interactive media for each item requested provides a slot for possible requests supported for that item such as 

In addition if a sample is requested the user is prompted by the client mobile devices optionally to provide user s shipping address. On the other hand if trial is selected by user a trial period is setup or what ever the product or service happens to be and user is prompted with a message indicating trail will begin on a particular date time and expire on a particular date time and with other relevant details. If appointment is requested then the user is provided with a list of available appointment schedule and he can select from one of them. Alternatively user is presented a list of dates to select one from and a list of time of the day to select one from and the mobile client device or notes down user s selected of date and time and sends to distribution server for processing.

The follow up behavior expected of the client mobile devices while running the XML file for example for various request options may depend on the user selections. The selections may include appointment trail sample interested store in wish list not in this neighborhood and not of my type. Typical behavior involves the client mobile device or interacting with the distribution server appropriately and providing user the agent seller or service provider side responses. Alternatively in the above mentioned request options all of the necessary information may be downloaded to the client mobile device or in one step along with the downloaded XML file and handled entirely locally.

For example during making of an appointment the client mobile devices send message to the distribution server regarding the request for an appointment the distribution server in turn sends message to real estate agent or service provider etc. to make an appointment the distribution server waits for agent to forward an appointment schedule and sends it to the client mobile device or . The distribution server may send appointment information such as in standard format iCalendar content etc. to the client mobile device or and email to client email account.

For example the iCalendar iCal in short a standard RFC 2445 for calendar data exchange allows users to send meeting requests and tasks to other users through email. Recipients of the iCalendar email with supported software can respond to the sender easily or counter propose another meeting date time. The user in the client mobile device or may receive iCal if appointment is sent by server and it may send iCalendar requests to server too if user selects one of a list of schedules to make a request for an appointment.

The distribution server has several options in supporting appointment sending appointment creation etc. The distribution server has a web server calendar component that is the distribution server is reached using just the HTTP protocol Hyper Text Transfer Protocol . The distribution server can often be used to distribute iCalendar data about an event scheduled for the user. It can also be used and to publish busy times of an individual sales agent or sender. The distributions server can embed iCalendar data in web pages provided to the user or in interactive media sent to user using hCalendar a 1 1 microformat representation of iCalendar in semantic X HTML or in other similar formats.

During purchasing of a product the distribution server sends an invoice to the user to review and approve the user is prompted to enter a PIN code Personal Identification Code or some security code and select approve button or soft key. After the distribution server receives PIN code and approval the distribution server conducts a sales transaction with an external system and sends confirmation to the user via email SMS etc. That is the distribution server may follow up a purchase request via email or via message to client in mobile device or .

If the user presses interested soft key the client mobile device or requests for additional information from the distribution server and notes that user is interested in the product for example . However if the user presses interested soft key and further goes ahead and selects request and then appointment then makes an appointment then user s selection of an appointment is communicated to distribution server and to sender of message advertisement to user. In addition the distribution server sends interested message to agent seller or service provider to follow up. If the user does request an appointment the distribution server sends that information to the agent seller or service provider or to another sender as relevant. Then the distribution server waits for the agent seller or service provider or to another sender to forward an appointment schedule and sends it to client mobile device or . If the user had not sent an appointment request after pressing interested soft key then the distribution server does nothing and leaves it up to the agent seller or service provider or to another sender to follow up.

If the user presses trial soft key the client mobile device or requests the agent seller or service provider via distribution server to make the product available for a trail. The user is requested to provide all of the necessary details such as address or email ID IDentification . Then the client mobile device or sends these details to the distribution server and then from there to the agent seller or service provider. Then the client mobile device or provides details of the product or service and how it can be accessed for a trial. The client mobile device or also provides details of trial period and enrollment for an exercise club or trial membership in any club or magazine for example.

If the user presses store in wish list soft key the client mobile device or stores in wish list for the user in server side or alternatively in the client mobile device or . The user is able to retrieve the wish list and browse at any time. The user may also receive support for a website based wish list browsing and purchasing by user supported by server.

If the user presses not in this neighborhood soft key the client mobile device or indicates to the agent seller service provider or sender that user is not listed in such a neighborhood. For real estate this indicates that user does not mind the features and style of the property but it happens to be in a neighborhood that the user does not like for some reason. If the user presses not of my type soft key the client mobile device or indicates to the agent seller service provider or sender that user does not like the individual content and that it does not suit user s taste or requirements. For real estate this indicates that the user does not mind the neighborhood but the style of the house its location or its features are not what the user expected or desires.

In addition to all the above mentioned services provided the client mobile devices or also provide options for the user to leave audio feedback by recording into mobile phone for any item in the list presented. The client mobile device or then sends the recorded audio feedback via the distribution server to the agent seller service provider or sender for review.

The soft keys provide various options for the user such as to exit quit go back or go forward. For example at end of list of interactive media the user is presented a list of things selected by user. The user can press done exit or forward to someone such as by selecting a phone number from contact list to one or more people soft keys. If done is selected screen goes back to main splash screen wherein the list of available interactive media is presented with updated list entries. If exit is selected the application quits. If forward is selected either the selected items or entire interactive media is sent to one or more people.

For example if the user presses forward soft key the client mobile device or forwards selections to one or more people by requesting for addresses from the user or forwards the entire original interactive media such as questionnaire or product list to one or more people.

To perform the above mentioned functionalities the distribution server has many modules such as interactive media gathering module interactive media assembly module interactive media delivery module and interactive media follow up module .

In one embodiment the mobile device prompts a user to review a product comprised in an interactive media. In addition a purchase option is provided in the multiple choice displayed. If a user selects the purchase option the user is subsequently prompted to approve of the sale and details of the sales event are captured by the mobile device. It is then delivered to the distribution server which selectively forwards it to an external system such as a billing system or a service provider system.

In one embodiment the mobile device supports dynamic screen display employing a plurality of soft keys for user interaction. The mobile device receives an interactive media delivered from the distribution server to which it is communicatively coupled. The mobile device presents the interactive media in a series of dynamically generated screens to a mobile user. For example the interactive media comprises data and configuration used by the mobile device to present portions of the interactive media in appropriate screens. The mobile device interactively sends user responses received from the screens such as selections to multiple choice sets presented to the distribution server. In a related embodiment the mobile device presents a welcome screen for the interactive media. The welcome screen comprises at least one of an audio message a graphic image and a welcome text. The welcome screen enables a user to select the interactive media from a plurality of interactive media currently available at the distribution server. In a different related embodiment the mobile device presents a welcome screen wherein the welcome screen provides one or more options for selection by a user. For example the options can comprise of the following set of options 

A user can select from one of these options and a list of currently available interactive media associated with that user selection is displayed.

Typically the welcome screen may contain a splash message audio visual message letting the user know about the services provided by the interactive media and providing multiple choice selections. These selections allow user to pick one of many categories of interactive media. The welcome screen shown has a title WELCOME The following Interactive Media are available at this time . In addition the welcome screen has a selectable symbol which upon selecting provides an audio introductory message regarding the services provided and multi choice options available. Similarly a video button may be incorporated that upon selection provides a splash video message. In addition the multi choice options contain categories product lists for review questionnaires local advertisements property on sale cartoons and audio guided activities. The user may select a choice such as local advertisements as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 and press soft key 2 to start the local advertisements.

The current illustration shows a splash message being displayed in the display in response to the user selecting local advertisements and pressing start button refer to the description of in the welcome screen. The advertisement shown has a preamble The XYZ2345 printer is an excellent choice for home offices It is today s workhorse with incredible 20 pages per minute printing speed. If faxes scans and copies too . A graphical image of the XYZ2345 printer is also presented. The message is followed by Splash Message option which upon selection shows an audio visual clip regarding the XYZ2345 printer. The soft keys are assigned with functionalities of Exit and Additional Options respectively. In other embodiments the functionalities may be designed differently depending on the number of soft keys available.

The additional options screen may contain a message such as This XYZ2345 printer can be used for home office. It prints at 20 pages per minute scans copies documents and sends faxes letting the user know about the product and provides multiple choice selections. These selections allow user to pick one of many multi choice options. A graphical image of the XYZ2345 printer is also presented. In addition the additional options screen has a selectable symbol which upon selecting provides an audio message regarding the product and multi choice options available. Similarly a video button may be incorporated that upon selection provides a audio visual message.

The multi choice options contain options purchase not interested interested and store in wish list. The user may select a choice such as purchase as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 to start the purchase procedures. The user may get additional information regarding the XYZ2345 printer by pressing soft key 2 having option as Info .

The information screen provides information regarding the product here it is about XYZ2345 printer. A graphical image of the XYZ2345 printer is also presented. Additional multi choice options provided include supplementary information print and request. These selections allow user to pick one of many multi choice options. The information screen may also be provided with selectable symbol which upon selecting provides an audio message regarding the product and multi choice options available. Similarly a video button may be incorporated that upon selection provides a audio visual information message.

The multi choice options contain options supplementary information print and request. The user may select a choice such as request as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 to start the request procedures. The user may exit the current advertisement by pressing soft key 2 having option as Exit .

The request screen provides options to contact agent seller service provider or sender such as supplementary information appointment trial or sample depending on the product in consideration . A graphical image of the XYZ2345 printer may also be presented. The multi choice options provided here include supplementary information appointment trial or sample sample may not be appropriate regarding the XYZ2345 printer in this case though . These selections allow user to pick one of many multi choice options and make a request. The information screen may also be provided with selectable symbol which upon selecting provides an audio message regarding the product and multi choice options available. Similarly a video button may be incorporated that upon selection provides a audio visual information message. The user may select a choice such as appointment as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 to make an appointment. The user may go to the next screen by pressing soft key 2 having option as Next .

For example if the XYZ2345 has any sample associated it can be requested if appointment can be made it can be requested and trial run can also be requested. In addition if a sample is requested the user is prompted to provide user s shipping address. If trial is selected by user a trial period is setup and user is prompted with a message indicating trail will begin on a particular date time and expire on a particular date time and with other relevant details. If appointment is requested as illustrated then the user is provided with a list of available appointment schedule and he can select from one of them refer to the description of . Alternatively user is presented a list of dates to select one from and a list of time of the day to select one from and the client notes down user s selected of date and time and sends to server for processing.

The appointment screen provides options to contact agent seller service provider or sender. The multi choice options provided here include different possible date and times to fix an appointment. The illustration shows a preamble The following appointment schedules are available and dates and times such as Sep. 10 2007 Monday 9 00 AM or Sep. 10 2007 Monday 12 30 PM . These selections allow user to pick one of many multi choice options and make an appointment. The information screen may also be provided with selectable symbol which upon selecting provides an audio message regarding the appointment options available. The user may select a choice such as Sep. 10 2007 Monday 12 30 PM as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and sending this information by using soft key 1 . The user may forward the entire interactive media to another person by pressing soft key 2 having option as Forward .

The forward screen allows user to forward the entire interactive media to one or more recipients. The provisions provided here allows the user to enter phone numbers or email addresses. The illustration shows a preamble Provide Forwarding Phone Numbers and Look Up option. Selecting the Look Up option allows the user to scroll through the contact list and select one or more phone numbers. The illustration also shows a preamble Provide Forwarding Email Address and Look Up option. Here selecting the Look Up option allows the user to scroll through the contact list and select one or more email addresses. The preambles are followed by spaces to enter the necessary information. The user may enter the necessary phone numbers and email addresses and press forward button by using soft key 1 . The user may also leave audio feedback by pressing soft key 2 having option as Audio Feedback .

The displayed interactive media may be one of ongoing interactive media running continuously by a distribution server or be one of user selected. Alternatively the displayed interactive media may be selected on the basis of priorities set by the distribution server the priorities may be set based upon user data available or price paid by the agent seller or service provider. The displayed interactive media may contain a audio visual message with a preamble. A graphical image may also presented at the end of the audio visual message. Alternatively individual buttons soft keys for example may allow user to choose i the displayed message ii displayed message with an audio clip or iii an audio visual presentation with the message being displayed at the end.

At a next block the client mobile device provides a request button to provide additional choices. At a next block the client mobile device provides additional selections upon pressing the soft key request . The additional selections include appointment trial and sample options. If the current item has any sample associated with it it can be requested if appointment can be made it can be requested and trial run can also be requested. At a next block the client mobile device requests user for a address email address upon requesting for appointment or sample or trial. For example if a sample is requested the user is prompted to provide user s shipping address. If trial is selected by user a trial period is setup and user is prompted with a message indicating trail will begin on a particular date time and expire on a particular date time and with other relevant details. If appointment is requested then the user is provided with a list of available appointment schedule and the user can select from one of them. Alternatively user is presented a list of dates to select one from and a list of time of the day to select one from and the client mobile device notes down user s selected of date and time and sends to the distribution server for processing. Other supports of communication for requests may also be provided such as email support or web site support.

At a next block the client mobile device provides forward and audio feedback buttons. At a next block the client mobile device requests for forwarding phone numbers email addresses or postal addresses upon pressing forward button. The forward and audio feedback buttons allow user to forward interactive media to a recipient or leave feedback massage to the agent seller or service provider. The forward button allows the user to forward the entire interactive media to a recipient by providing phone numbers or email addresses. The user may also leave audio feedback by pressing a soft key having option audio feedback and recording a message and sending it. At a final block the client mobile device sends all of the collected information to the distribution server.

At a block the user chooses the option of appointment . In response the client mobile device requests distribution server for schedules or retrieves predetermined schedules at a next block . At a next block the client mobile device delivers schedules. At a next block the client mobile device collects all the user responses in return to the delivered schedules and sends them to the distribution server.

At a block the user chooses the option of purchase . In response the client mobile device bills the user. At a next block the client mobile device receives user approval to the bill. At a next block the client mobile device requests the server for an invoice for user approval receives it and displays it on the screen. The user is prompted to enter a PIN code Personal Identification Code or some security code and select approve button or soft key. After the distribution server receives PIN code and approval the distribution server conducts a sales transaction with an external system and sends confirmation to the user either directly to the client mobile device or via email SMS etc. at a next block . At a next block the client mobile device collects all the user responses and sends them to the distribution server.

At a block the user chooses the option of interested . In response the client mobile device notes user interest at a next block . At a next block the client mobile device requests the distribution server for additional information and displays it on the screen. The additional information may be a splash message or simply a display message with an audio clip. At a next block the client mobile device sends this information to the agent seller service provider or a client as the case may be. At a next block the client mobile device displays appointment schedules to the user allowing user to make an appointment to get further information. At a next block the client mobile device collects all the user responses and sends them to the distribution server.

At a block the user chooses the option of trial . The client mobile device responds at a next block the user is requested to provide all of the necessary details such as address or email ID IDentification . Then at a next block the client mobile device sends these details to the distribution server and then from there to the agent seller or service provider. The client mobile device requests the agent seller or service provider via distribution server to make the product available for a trail. Then at a next block the client mobile device informs the user regarding details of the product or service and how it can be accessed for a trial. The client mobile device also provides details of trial period and enrollment for an exercise club or trial membership in any club or magazine for example. At a next block the client mobile device sends collected user responses to the distribution server.

At a block the user chooses the option of store in wish list . The client mobile device responds at a next block by storing the product or service in wish list in server side or alternatively in the client mobile device itself. At a next block the client mobile device provides user interface to retrieve the wish list and browse at any time. At a next block the client mobile device provides support for a website based wish list browsing and purchasing by user supported by server. At a next block the client mobile device sends collected user responses to the distribution server.

At a block the user chooses the option of not in this neighborhood . At a next block the client mobile device informs the agent seller service provider or sender that user is not listed in such a neighborhood. For real estate this indicates that user does not mind the features and style of the property but it happens to be in a neighborhood that the user does not like for some reason. At a next block the client mobile device sends collected user responses to the distribution server.

At a block the user chooses the option of not my type . At a next block the client mobile device informs the agent seller service provider or sender that user does not like the individual content and that it does not suit user s taste or requirements. For real estate this indicates that the user does not mind the neighborhood but the style of the house its location or its features are not what the user expected or desires. At a next block the client mobile device sends collected user responses to the distribution server.

The terms circuit and circuitry as used herein may refer to an independent circuit or to a portion of a multifunctional circuit that performs multiple underlying functions. For example depending on the embodiment processing circuitry may be implemented as a single chip processor or as a plurality of processing chips. Likewise a first circuit and a second circuit may be combined in one embodiment into a single circuit or in another embodiment operate independently perhaps in separate chips. The term chip as used herein refers to an integrated circuit. Circuits and circuitry may comprise general or specific purpose hardware or may comprise such hardware and associated software such as firmware or object code.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the terms operably coupled and communicatively coupled as may be used herein include direct coupling and indirect coupling via another component element circuit or module where for indirect coupling the intervening component element circuit or module does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As one of ordinary skill in the art will also appreciate inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two elements in the same manner as operably coupled and communicatively coupled. 

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of certain significant functions. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

Moreover although described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding by way of the aforementioned embodiments the present invention is not limited to such embodiments. It will be obvious to one of average skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be practiced within the spirit and scope of the invention as limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

