---

title: Systems and methods for associating location information with a communication sub-assembly housed within a communication assembly
abstract: An exemplary optical distribution frame includes a frame structure defining multiple positions into which multiple chassis can be inserted and a frame controller unit attached to the frame structure. The frame structure includes a frame controller and a switch communicatively coupled to the frame controller, wherein the switch includes a multiple ports. The frame structure including multiple cables, each cable being attached to a respective one of the ports of the switch and routed and attached to the optical distribution frame so that each cable can be attached to a chassis inserted into a predetermined one of the positions in the optical distribution frame, wherein the frame controller is configured to communicate port mapping information to a management entity that is communicatively coupled to the frame controller for use by the management entity in associating location information with a chassis inserted into the optical distribution frame.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507113&OS=09507113&RS=09507113
owner: CommScope Technologies LLC
number: 09507113
owner_city: Hickory
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131223
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 760 816 filed on Feb. 5 2013 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Telecommunications networks typically include numerous logical communication links between various items of equipment. Often a single logical communication link is implemented using several pieces of physical communication media. For example a logical communication link between a computer and an inter networking device such as a hub or router can be implemented as follows. A first cable connects the computer to a jack mounted in a wall. A second cable connects the wall mounted jack to a port of a patch panel and a third cable connects the inter networking device to another port of a patch panel. A patch cord or cable cross connects the two together. In other words a single logical communication link is often implemented using several segments of physical communication media.

Various types of physical layer management PLM systems can be used to track connections made at patch panels and other types of equipment used to make connections in communication networks. Generally such PLM systems include functionality to track what is connected to each port of such equipment trace connections that are made using such equipment and provide visual indications to technicians at such equipment for example by illuminating an LED that is associated with a patch panel or a port thereof .

One exemplary type of PLM system makes use of an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM or other storage device that is integrated with or attached to a connector on a cable fiber or other segment of communication media. The storage device is used to store information about the connector or cable along with other information. The port or other connector into which the associated connector is inserted is configured to read the information stored in the EEPROM or other storage device when the connector is inserted at that port. One example of such technology includes the QUAREO family of products that are commercially available from TE Connectivity.

Another type of PLM system makes use of so called ninth wire technology. Ninth wire technology makes use of special cables that include an extra conductor or signal path also referred to here as the ninth wire conductor or signal path that is used for determining which port each end of the cables is inserted into. Ninth wire technology can be used with various types of cables such as twisted pair copper cables and optical cables in the latter case using hybrid optical cables that include one or more copper wires that serve as the ninth wire . One example of ninth wire technology includes the AMPTRAC family of products that are commercially available from TE Connectivity.

Another type of PLM system makes use of radio frequency identification RFID tags and readers. With this type of RFID PLM system an RFID tag is attached to or integrated with a connector on a cable fiber or other segment of communication media. The RFID tag is used to store information about the connector or segment of communication media along with other information. The RFID tag can be read after the associated connector is inserted into a corresponding jack or other port using an RFID reader.

PLM systems typically include management software that aggregates the captured information and stores it in one or more databases. One example of such management software is the Infrastructure Configuration Manager ICM software that is commercially available from TE Connectivity.

In addition to information about the connections and cabling used to make them these databases also typically store information about the other equipment used to make the connections. Examples of such equipment include patch panels distribution frames and active networking devices such as switches routers and gateways. Examples of information that is stored in the database about such equipment include information about the make and model of the equipment and where it is installed in the network.

Typically information about where such equipment is installed in the network must be manually entered. This is commonly the case even for intelligent equipment that can be automatically discovered by the PLM management software and queried for its identification information for example serial number and make and model .

For example in one common usage scenario a frame is installed in an equipment room or data center of an enterprise or in a central office of a telecommunication service provider. The frame is designed to house multiple sub assemblies that are used to make connections between cables. One example of such a frame is an optical distribution frame ODF into which multiple chassis can be inserted. In this example each chassis is designed to hold multiple adapter packs on one or more trays that slide in and out of the chassis. Each adapter pack comprises multiple optical adapters where each of the optical adapters is configured to optically connect an optical cable terminated with an optical connector such as an LC or SC connector with another optical cable terminated with a corresponding optical connector.

As noted above even when the frame includes some type of PLM intelligence that enables the frame to be discovered by PLM management software and queried for identification information associated with that frame for example a serial or other identification number and a make and model location information for that frame typically must be manually entered into the PLM management system for example using a Web interface or mobile application . This is because the frame is typically not aware of where it is located. The PLM management system is then able to associate the manually entered location information with the identification information that the PLM management software was able to automatically discover.

Also whenever a sub assembly for example an optical chassis of the type noted above is installed in the frame location information for that sub assembly must also be manually entered into the PLM management system. The location information for each sub assembly includes where that sub assembly is located for example a physical location and or which frame the sub assembly has been inserted into as well as which slot or position within the frame that sub assembly has been inserted into.

The location information for each such sub assembly typically must be manually entered even if the sub assembly otherwise includes PLM intelligence that enables it to be discovered and queried by the PLM management software for its identification information. This is because the sub assembly typically is not aware of where it is located. The need to manually enter location information for the sub assembly adds an additional manual step to the work flow associated with installing the sub assembly which increases the time required to complete the work flow and which can result in incorrect data being manually entered. Moreover it is common that when a frame is initially deployed less than the maximum number of sub assemblies that could be housed in that frame are actually installed in the frame during the initial deployment. As a result location information for the various sub assemblies in a given frame might be manually entered by different people at different times.

In accordance with common practice the various described features are not drawn to scale but are drawn to emphasize specific features relevant to the exemplary embodiments.

In the exemplary embodiment described here in connection with the assembly comprises an optical distribution frame also referred to here as the optical distribution frame or simply the frame . Also in this exemplary embodiment the sub assemblies comprise chassis that are configured to hold multiple fiber optic modules for example in a 4 Rack Unit RU sized chassis . The sub assemblies are also referred to here as the chassis . The optical distribution frame comprises a frame structure that is configured to have a plurality of positions where a chassis can be inserted into each of the positions. For ease of explanation the frame is shown in as being configured to house up to four chassis and each chassis is shown as being configured to house up to two fiber optic modules however it is to be understood that the frame can be configured to house any number of chassis and each chassis can be configured to house any number of fiber optic modules .

Each optical module is implemented as an optical tray that is configured to hold at least one multiple adapter pack . Each adapter pack comprises multiple optical adapters where each of the optical adapters is configured to optically connect an optical cable not shown terminated with an optical connector such as an LC SC or a Multi fiber Push On MPO connector with another optical cable not shown terminated with a corresponding optical connector. Again for ease of explanation in each module is shown as holding two adapter packs and each adapter pack is shown in as holding up to two adapters however it is to be understood that each module can be configured to hold any number of adapter packs and each adapter pack can be configured to hold any number of optical adapters . Also it is to be understood that the techniques described here can be used for other types of connection devices including for example ones where a single cable or a single cable bundle is broken out in order to be connected to multiple cables or cable bundles such as for example MPO splitter or cassette type devices .

In the exemplary embodiment described herein connection with each of the connectors includes a respective non volatile storage device such as an EEPROM that is used to gather information about the connector or the cable for example identification information for the cable or connector such as serial number or other identifier and make and model . Each module includes a respective module controller . Each module and the corresponding adapter packs and optical adapters are configured so that the module controller for that module can determine whether a connector is inserted into each optical adapter and read the storage device associated with that inserted connector if there is one . For example each optical adapter include one or more contacts or terminals that come into electrical contact with corresponding contacts or terminals on any connector that is inserted into the adapter where such contacts or terminals are used to electrically couple the storage device for that connector to the corresponding module controller so that the module controller can determine if a connector is inserted into each optical adapter and read information from a storage device attached to such a connector if any . In some applications the data read from the storage device is used to track connections made at the frame . In some applications connectors that include such storage devices are not used and instead connections are tracked by inferring connections using the functionality that determines whether a connector is inserted in each adapter or port. In some applications a combination of the foregoing approaches is used.

Examples of such chassis modules adapter packs and optical adapters are described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications all of which are filed on the same date as the present application U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 761 048 filed on Feb. 5 2013 titled Optical Assemblies with Managed Connectivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 761 034 filed on Feb. 5 2013 titled Optical Assemblies with Managed Connectivity U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 761 042 filed on Feb. 5 2013 titled Optical Assemblies with Managed Connectivity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 761 009 filed on Feb. 5 2013 titled Slidable Telecommunications Tray with Cable Slack Management . All of the preceding applications are incorporated herein by reference.

In the exemplary embodiment shown in each chassis includes a respective master controller that is electrically coupled to the module controller for each module that is included in that chassis for example using a respective flex circuit interconnect . In this exemplary embodiment the master controller and its associated module controllers are configured to use a master slave scheme for communicating with one another. In such a scheme the master controller serves as the master and each of the module controllers serves as a slave. For example in one implementation of such a scheme each module controller determines when a connector has been inserted into an optical adapter associated with that module controller and reads information from the storage device attached or otherwise associated with that connector. When prompted to do so by the associated master controller each module controller informs the master controller of any state changes for any of the optical adapters associated with that module controller for example that a connector has been inserted or removed from an optical adapter and forwards to the master controller information read from storage devices inserted into optical adapters associated with that module controller .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in each chassis includes a at least one management network interface that can be used to couple the master controller to an IP network that is used for communicating the PLM information described below to a management entity . In an example implementation of such an embodiment the management network interface for each chassis is implemented using an ETHERNET network interface and associated RJ 45 port so that the corresponding master controller can be coupled to the IP network using a CAT 5 or CAT 6 twisted pair copper cable. It is to be understood however that the management network interface can be implemented in other ways.

It is noted that for ease of explanation the IP network is shown using a separate cloud symbol but it is to be understood that the frame chassis and cabling described here can be used to implement a part of the IP network over which the PLM information is communicated. Alternatively the IP network over which the PLM information is communicated can be kept separate from the network that the frame chassis and cabling are a part of.

The management entity is typically implemented as software that runs on a computer that is coupled to the IP network . The management entity is configured to receive information pertaining to various devices and media used to implement the physical layer in the network including but not limited to the chassis and frame and the cables and connectors that make connections there . The physical layer information PLI that is communicated to the management entity includes information about various devices in the network also referred to here as device information as well as information about any segments of physical communication media attached to the ports of those devices also referred to here as media information . The device information includes for example an identifier for each device a type identifier that identifies the device s type and port information that includes information about the device s ports. The media information includes information that is read from storage devices that are attached to various segments of physical communication media.

Examples of media information that can be stored in such storage devices include without limitation an identifier that uniquely identifies that particular segment of physical communication media similar to an ETHERNET Media Access Control MAC address but associated with the physical communication media and or connector attached to the physical communication media a part number a plug or other connector type a cable or fiber type and length a serial number a cable polarity a date of manufacture a manufacturing lot number information about one or more visual attributes of physical communication media or a connector attached to the physical communication media such as information about the color or shape of the physical communication media or connector or an image of the physical communication media or connector and other information used by an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system or inventory control system. In other embodiments alternate or additional data is stored in such storage devices. For example testing media quality or performance information can be stored in such storage devices. The testing media quality or performance information for example can be the results of testing that is performed when a particular segment of media is manufactured or installed.

The information provided to the management entity can also include information that is manually entered for example using a Web interface that is implemented by the management entity or a mobile application .

The management entity includes or uses a database or other data store not shown for storing the information provided to it. The management entity also includes functionality that provides an interface for external devices or entities to access the physical layer information maintained by the management entity . This access can include retrieving information from the management entity as well as supplying information to the management entity . In this example the management entity is implemented as middleware that is able to provide such external devices and entities with transparent and convenient access to the information maintained by the management entity . Because the management entity aggregates information from the relevant devices in the network and provides external devices and entities with access to such information the external devices and entities do not need to individually interact with all of the devices in the network that provide information to the management entity nor do such devices need to have the capacity to respond to requests from such external devices and entities.

The management entity in this example implements an application programming interface API by which application layer functionality can gain access to the physical layer information maintained by the management entity using a software development kit SDK that describes and documents the API.

More information about physical layer information and the aggregation point can be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 152 624 filed on Feb. 13 2009 titled MANAGED CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 497 filed on Feb. 12 2010 titled AGGREGATION OF PHYSICAL LAYER INFORMATION RELATED TO A NETWORK both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the master controller in each chassis is configured to interact with monitor and or control the operation of the components of the chassis for example any buttons or other input components and any light emitting diodes LEDs or other visual indicators incorporated into the body of the chassis itself as well as the module controllers . Also the master controller in each chassis is configured to interact with external entities via the IP network . For example each master controller is configured to implement appropriate functionality and protocols for the master controller to obtain an IP address for example a static IP address that is manually assigned to the master controller via a Web or mobile app interface that is implemented by the master controller or a dynamic IP address that is assigned to the module controller via a Dynamic Host control Protocol DHCP server for the IP network . Also each master controller is configured to implement appropriate functionality and protocols for the master controller to be discovered by and to discover the management entity . This discovery of and by the managing entity can be done manually for example by manually providing an address for the master controller to the managing entity and by manually providing an address for the managing entity to the master controller using for example a Web or mobile app interface implemented by the master controller and the managing entity or automatically for example using a suitable discovery protocol such as the Universal Plug and Play UPnP discovery protocol .

In the exemplary embodiment shown in the frame includes a frame controller unit that is attached to the structure that implements the frame. For example in one implement of such embodiment the frame controller unit is attached to the top of such structure. In other implementations the frame controller unit is located elsewhere in the frame for example on the bottom of the frame structure .

In this embodiment the frame controller unit includes a frame controller and an ETHERNET switch . The frame controller is configured to interact with monitor and or control the operation of the components of the frame controller unit for example the ETHERNET switch as well as any buttons or other input components and any light emitting diodes LEDs or other visual indicators incorporated into the frame controller unit and the frame for example any LEDs that are mounted to the frame itself . Also the frame controller is configured to interact with external entities via the IP network . For example the frame controller is configured to implement appropriate functionality and protocols for the frame controller to obtain an IP address for example a static IP address that is manually assigned to the frame controller via Web or mobile app interface that is implemented by the frame controller or a dynamic IP address that is assigned to the frame controller via a DHCP server for the IP network . Also the frame controller is configured to implement appropriate functionality and protocols for the frame controller to be discovered by and to discover the management entity . This discovery of and by the managing entity can be done manually for example by manually providing an address for the frame controller to the managing entity and by manually providing an address for the managing entity to the frame controller using for example a Web or mobile app interface implemented by the frame controller and managing entity or automatically for example using a suitable discovery protocol such as the UPnP discovery protocol .

The ETHERNET switch includes two sets of ports and . One set of ports are standard ETHERNET ports in which ETHERNET cables can be easily inserted and removed in connection with the normal operation of the frame . These ports are also referred to here as standard ports . In the exemplary embodiment shown in the ETHERNET switch includes two standard ports one of which is used to connect the ETHERNET switch and the other devices coupled to the other ports and of the switch to the IP network . This standard port is also referred to here as the upstream port . The other standard port is an auxiliary port that can be used for example to couple a wireless access point to the IP network or to daisy chain two or more frames and there associated frame controllers together for example as described further in more detail below .

The ETHERNET switch also includes a second set of ports that are configured so that the ETHERNET cables inserted into those ports cannot be easily removed from the ports in connection with the normal operation of the frame . In the following description these ports are also referred to here as the fixed ports . This can be done using a suitable connector or attachment mechanism.

For each of the fixed ports an ETHERNET cable is inserted into that fixed port that is configured to be inserted into the management network interface of a chassis that is inserted at one particular position in the frame and is configured so that the cable cannot be inserted into the management network interface of a chassis inserted into any of the other positions in the frame . This can be done for example by routing and attaching each ETHERNET cable to the frame so that there is only enough slack at the chassis end of that ETHERNET cable to be able to physically reach the management network interface of a chassis inserted into only one predetermined chassis position in the frame and not be able to physically reach the management network interfaces of chassis inserted into the other chassis positions in the frame .

In this way a relationship between each of the fixed ports and a particular chassis position in the frame is maintained. This relationship can be used to associate any chassis that is directly coupled to that fixed port with that particular chassis position in that particular frame . This relationship can be used to automatically associate location information with a chassis inserted into the frame . This location information for the chassis includes for example the location of the frame and the chassis position within the frame that the chassis is inserted into. The management entity can do this. Also this can be done by the frame controller .

The frame controller is communicatively coupled to the ETHERNET switch so that it is able to communicate with the managing entity via the IP network . Also as is described in more detail below the frame controller is configured to retrieve from the ETHERNET switch information that maps each of the ports and of the switch to MAC addresses that can be accessed via that switch port for example by retrieving the port map table that is maintained by an automatic translation unit ATU or lookup engine in the ETHERNET switch .

In exemplary embodiment shown in power can be supplied to the active components of the chassis and the modules included therein using Power over Ethernet POE . In this embodiment the ETHERNET switch is configured to source POE power over the auxiliary port and the and is coupled to a 48 Volt Direct Current DC power source in order to do so. This 48V DC power can also be used to power the active components of the frame including the frame controller unit and any LEDs attached to the frame . It is to be understood however that power can be supplied in other ways.

The auxiliary port can also be used to connect multiple frames and the associated frame controller units in a daisy chain configuration. In such a configuration the upstream port for a first frame is connected directly to the IP network that is is not connected to the IP network through another one of the frames . The upstream port of a second one of the frames is connected to the auxiliary port of the first frame the upstream port of a third one of the frames is connected to the auxiliary port of the second frame and so on. The auxiliary port of the last frame in the daisy chain is not used for implementing the daisy chain and can be used for other purposes for example for connecting a wireless access point to the IP network . The techniques for automatically associating location information with chassis inserted into a frame can be used with such a daisy chain configuration.

Method comprises communicatively coupling the frame controller in the frame to management entity block . In one common usage scenario the frame is installed in an equipment room or data center of an enterprise or in a central office of a telecommunication service provider. In this example the frame controller is connected to the IP network by connecting one of the standard ports of the ETHERNET switch included in the frame controller unit to the IP network using an appropriate cable for example a CAT 5 or CAT 6 cable . Then as described above the frame controller obtains an IP address either manually or automatically using for example DHCP and discovers and is discovered by the management entity again either manually or automatically using UPnP .

Method further comprises automatically providing identification information for the frame to the management entity block . In this example the management entity automatically obtains identification information for the frame for example a serial number and or another identifier assigned to the frame and or make and model information for the frame by using the IP network to query the frame controller for such information. Although the identification information is described here as being provided automatically to the management entity it is to be understood that such information could be provided manually. Also as a part of the information that is provided to the management entity information that identifies which of the fixed ports is associated with which chassis position in the frame is also to be provided to the management entity .

Method further comprises providing location information for the frame to the management entity block . In this example location information for the frame is manually entered and provided to the management entity for example using a Web or mobile app interface implemented by the management entity . This location information can include for example information that specifies a physical location for the frame for example GPS coordinates an address for the building in which the frame is installed and or a number or other identifier for the floor room and or row where the frame is installed . This location information can be specified in any suitable away for example using absolute and or relative coordinates or addresses .

Method further comprises when a chassis is installed in the frame in one of the chassis positions block connecting the management network interface of that chassis to the predetermined fixed port of the ETHERNET switch that is associated with that chassis position block . In this example the master controller obtains an IP address either manually or automatically using for example DHCP and discovers and is discovered by the management entity again either manually or automatically using UPnP .

Method further comprises automatically providing identification information for the chassis to the management entity block in connection with the chassis being inserted into the frame . In this example the management entity automatically obtains identification information for the chassis for example a serial number and or other identifier assigned to the chassis and module adapter packs and adapters housed within the chassis and any connectors or cables attached thereto and or make and model information for any of the foregoing by using the IP network to query the master controller for that chassis for such information. Also in this example a media access control MAC address associated with the management network interface is also communicated to the management entity .

Method further comprises automatically providing MAC address to port mapping information from the frame controller to the management entity block . In this example the frame controller reads the routing tables maintained by the ATU or lookup engine in the switch in order to come up with the MAC address to port mapping information. This MAC address to port mapping information is provided to the management entity via the IP network .

Method further comprises automatically associating location information with the chassis that has just been inserted into a chassis position in the frame block . In this example the management entity does this by using the MAC address for the management network interface of that chassis to determine which frame and which chassis position within that frame the chassis is inserted into. The frame that the chassis is inserted into is the one whose MAC address to port mapping information includes the MAC address for the management network interface . Then the management entity associates the location information for that frame which was manually entered in connection with block with that chassis and module adapter packs and adapters in that chassis and any connectors or cables attached thereto . Also the management entity determines the chassis position within that frame by using the MAC address for the management network interface of that chassis and the MAC address to port mapping information to determine which fixed port that chassis is connected to.

In this way location information can be associated with the chassis automatically that is without having to manually enter such location information . This eliminates the manual data entry step that would otherwise be needed each time a chassis is inserted into the frame and the need for such information to be manually entered by different people at different times when the frame is initially deployed with less than all of the chassis positions filled with chassis .

Example 1 includes a system comprising a management entity a communication assembly configured to receive a plurality of communication sub assemblies in a plurality of positions the communication assembly comprises a controller and a switch communicatively coupled to the controller the switch including a plurality of ports a plurality of cables each cable being attached to a respective one of the ports of the switch and routed and attached to the communication assembly so that each cable can be attached to a communication sub assembly inserted into a predetermined one of the positions in the communication assembly wherein the controller is configured to communicate port mapping information to the management entity and wherein the management entity is configured to use the port mapping information to associate location information with a communication sub assembly inserted into the communication assembly.

Example 2 includes the system of Example 1 wherein the communication assembly comprises an optical distribution frame.

Example 3 includes the system of any of Examples 1 2 wherein the sub assembly comprises a chassis configured to house a plurality of optical modules each module comprising an optical tray configured to hold at least one adapter pack wherein each adapter pack comprises multiple optical adapters.

Example 4 includes the system of any of Examples 1 3 wherein when a communication sub assembly is inserted into a first position of the communication assembly and the predetermined cable associated with the first position is connected to the chassis a controller included in the chassis is communicatively coupled to the management entity via the switch.

Example 5 includes the system of Example 4 wherein the management entity is configured to automatically query the communication sub assembly inserted into the communication assembly.

Example 6 includes the system of any of Examples 1 5 wherein the management entity is configured to receive location information associated with the communication assembly wherein the management entity is configured to use the port mapping information to associate with the communication sub assembly inserted into the communication assembly at least some of the location information associated with the communication assembly.

Example 7 includes the system of any of Examples 1 6 wherein the switch is configured to supply power to each communication sub assembly inserted into the communication assembly.

Example 8 includes the system of any of Examples 1 7 wherein the switch comprises an ETHERNET switch.

Example 9 includes the system of any of Examples 1 8 wherein the port mapping information comprises information to map media access control MAC addresses associated with communication sub assemblies inserted into the communication assembly to ports of the switch.

Example 10 includes an optical distribution frame comprising a frame structure defining a plurality of positions into which a plurality of chassis can be inserted and a frame controller unit attached to the frame structure the frame structure comprising a frame controller and a switch communicatively coupled to the frame controller wherein the switch includes a plurality of ports a plurality of cables each cable being attached to a respective one of the ports of the switch and routed and attached to the optical distribution frame so that each cable can be attached to a chassis inserted into a predetermined one of the positions in the optical distribution frame wherein the frame controller is configured to communicate port mapping information to a management entity that is communicatively coupled to the frame controller for use by the management entity in associating location information with a chassis inserted into the optical distribution frame.

Example 11 includes the optical distribution frame of Example 10 wherein each chassis is configured to house a plurality of optical modules each module comprising an optical tray configured to hold at least one adapter pack wherein each adapter pack comprises multiple optical adapters.

Example 12 includes the optical distribution frame of any of Examples 10 11 wherein when a chassis is inserted into a first position of the optical distribution frame and the predetermined cable associated with the first position is connected to the chassis a controller included in the chassis is communicatively coupled to the management entity via the switch.

Example 13 includes the optical distribution frame of Example 12 wherein the management entity is configured to automatically query the communication chassis inserted into the optical distribution frame.

Example 14 includes the optical distribution frame of any of Examples 10 13 wherein the switch is configured to supply power to each chassis inserted into the optical distribution frame.

Example 15 includes the optical distribution frame of Example 14 wherein the switch is configured to supply power to each chassis inserted into the optical distribution frame using Power over Ethernet POE .

Example 16 includes the optical distribution frame of any of Examples 10 15 wherein the port mapping information comprises information to map media access control MAC addresses associated with chassis inserted into the optical distribution frame to ports of the switch.

Example 17 includes the optical distribution frame of any of Examples 10 16 wherein the switch comprises an ETHERNET switch.

Example 18 includes a method comprising communicatively coupling a frame controller in an optical distribution frame to a management entity via a network wherein the optical distribution frame comprises a plurality of positions into which a plurality of chassis can be inserted and a frame controller unit comprising a frame controller and a switch communicatively coupled to the frame controller wherein the switch including a plurality of ports a plurality of cables each cable being attached to a respective one of the ports of the switch and routed and attached to the optical distribution frame so that each cable can be attached to a chassis inserted into a predetermined one of the positions in the optical distribution frame providing location information for the optical distribution frame to the management entity when a chassis is installed in the optical distribution frame in one of the chassis positions connecting a management network interface of that chassis to the predetermined port of the switch that is associated with that chassis position automatically providing identification information for the chassis to the management entity automatically providing MAC address to port mapping information from the frame controller to the management entity and automatically associating location information with the chassis that has just been inserted into the chassis position in the optical distribution frame.

Example 19 includes the method of Example 18 further comprising automatically providing identification information for the optical distribution frame to the management entity.

Example 20 includes the method of any of Examples 18 19 wherein providing location information for the optical distribution frame to the management entity comprises manually providing location information for the optical distribution frame to the management entity.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications to the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. Also combinations of the individual features of the above described embodiments are considered within the scope of the inventions disclosed here.

