---

title: Method and system for grouping multimedia files from plural vendors' servers in media store's catalog
abstract: A media store server provides customers' digital information devices with a catalog of multimedia content available from servers of multiple vendors. To provide a unified catalog for the store, the multimedia contents are grouped according to descriptive texts. A descriptive text for a multimedia content item or file is obtained from a vendor's catalog, and the descriptive text is standardized to generate a token for that particular multimedia content item. The multimedia content is classified in an existing catalog group corresponding to an already existent token, if the generated token matches an existent token in the catalog of the media store server. A new group for multimedia content is generated and the particular multimedia content is assigned to the new group, if the generated token does not yet exist in the catalog of the multimedia store server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002849&OS=09002849&RS=09002849
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09002849
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130204
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 415 151 filed on Mar. 31 2009 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Wireless communication devices such as mobile handsets pagers and other two way messaging devices have had the capability to receive data and or voice from the wireless communication system. Besides this basic wireless communication functionality other technical achievements have been integrated onto the wireless communication devices. In recent years as the speeds of wireless communication equipments and the speed of processors increase the wireless communication devices have been provided with complete Internet access via web browsers or application software tailored to the wireless communication. As the wireless communication devices have advanced far so as to serve as players for listening to music and viewing videos the downloading of music and video to wireless communication devices has become widespread.

To meet needs for downloading music and video for use by their highly mobile customers wireless communication service providers have begun to offer media store platforms from which the wireless communication device users may buy and download diverse music video and game music or the like type multimedia content even though the files for the content may actually come from a plurality of music video and game vendors. Such a wireless communication service provider needs to provide a catalog of music or the like for example which categorizes music and video according to artists or directors albums and titles and pulls together diverse versions of the same music and video for convenience of wireless communication device users in searching and finding their desired music and video. Consider a song as an example. The song may be performed by a number of different artists sometimes in different musical genres over time. Each artist may release the song performance and or rerecord it on a different album. Each artist may release a related music video Ringtones one or more selected segments from the song. Each different content based on the one song will have its own descriptive text for catalog and search purposes and different vendors often describe each item somewhat differently for their covers. Since music and related content often is listed in various versions of descriptive texts variations of album title artist and track name on vendors catalogs even for the same music performed by the same artist it is difficult to categorize music and video and pull together diverse versions of the same music or video from plural vendors catalogs on the catalog of the media store platform in a uniform way. A similar problem may arise even within one catalog if one item appears in multiple forms e.g. MP3 audio MPEG video and or ringtone if the descriptive texts are inconsistent.

Hence a need exists for a method and a system that more effectively group diverse versions of music or the like from plural vendors servers according to descriptive texts for the music or the like and provides users who want to purchase and download the music or the like with a catalog which categorizes the music or the like according to the descriptive texts.

Another need exists for piecing together and categorizing a list of music and video or the like from plural vendors catalogs according to artists performers or directors album or title and providing a harmonized catalog to wireless communication device users for easy access to diverse content.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The examples described below encompass technique that groups multimedia contents for an on line store according to descriptive texts track artist and album names regarding multimedia contents music video game applications etc. . The content files reside on vendors servers and the respective descriptive texts are obtained from the vendors catalogs. The exemplary technique provides a more exact and updated catalog for the media store server to store users or shoppers who want to download the multimedia contents to their digital information devices such as PCs PDAs or mobile handsets. The processing of the text for the store catalog allows music and video to be effectively categorized in the media store catalog according to such things as artists performers and albums collections . The users who want to download the multimedia contents onto their mobile handsets directly via the wireless network or indirectly via the landline network can lookup search and download their desired music conveniently using the media store platform for accessing the content available from the various vendors.

For a content item or file available on a vendor s server a catalog manager in or associated with the store server is configured to add text for the item to an existing group or to create a new group as appropriate. Each group will have a token based on descriptive text. A descriptive text for a multimedia content item or file is obtained from a vendor s catalog. The descriptive text for the multimedia content is standardized to generate a token for that particular multimedia content item. The multimedia content is classified in an existing catalog group corresponding to an already existent token if the newly generated token matches an existent token in the catalog of the media store server. A new group for multimedia content is generated and the particular multimedia content is assigned to the newly generated group if the newly generated token does not yet exist in the catalog of the multimedia store server. The stored descriptive text provides a link to or association for access to the actual file on the vendor s server i.e. so when users searches the text comes up from the store server and selection enables user to access download multimedia content from the vendor s server. The tokens and corresponding groups effectively link related content.

Before discussing grouping in more detail it may help some readers to consider the multimedia store and access by mobile customers to give the grouping technique some context. is an example of a page of a media store platform provided by a wireless communication service provider s website. The media store platform is an interface for users accessing a media store server via PCs or mobile handsets to search a catalog in the media store server and purchase and request to download music or the like. The media store platform may be provided at a wireless communication service provider s website in the HTML form appropriate for accessing via personal computers or laptops and may also be provided at hand held wireless communication devices in the application interface tailored to wireless communication devices. The media store platform provides users with various functionalities for purchasing and downloading multimedia files for various types of content including music video or the like.

The exemplary media store platform provides various functionalities menus such as ARTISTS GENRE TOP HIT the selection of which allows the users to look up grouped lists of music based on artists genre and top hit music by users and a SEARCH menu the selection of which permits the users to search for their desired music in the catalog of the media server . The illustrated example of the menu ARTISTS lists various artists names e.g. Doctor and Doom and Papas under the menu ARTISTS. The representative menu GENRE lists various genres e.g. Jazz and Blues under the menu GENRE. 

The user can select and drill down to particular content items in a number of ways. Although term searching and other techniques may be used the example of represents navigation through a series or hierarchy of menus. The exemplary media store page displays lists of music according to artists genre and top hit music in the upper portion and displays a list of music sung by Doctor and Doom in the lower portion upon selection of the artist Doctor and Doom among artists listed under the menu ARTISTS. The displayed music sung by the artist Doctor and Doom includes music of which titles are Beautiful Wonderful and Amazing in diverse types of Music On Demand MOD Ringtone and Ringback tone formats and are collected in different albums collections Best Various and Alumni. While the lists of music displayed on the media store platform may be grouped and obtained by the wireless communication service provider or the media store platform provider transactions and downloading of actual music may be performed between the plural music vendors servers and the mobile handsets or PCs .

In the illustrated music type store example the wireless communication service provider s media store server may not store actual music however the wireless communication service provider or the media store platform provider needs to pull together and group descriptive texts album track and collection names of music obtainable from the plural music vendors servers and enable the music from the plural music vendors servers to be purchasable on the media store platform. The service provider s process to obtain and group descriptive texts of music from vendors catalogs will be described below after explaining a process and a system for buying music or the like on the media store platform.

Continuing with the on line music store as our example is a system for implementing a media store platform managed by a wireless communication service provider that mediates selling and buying of music related between vendors servers and users mobile handsets. A plurality of vendors servers store and sell music including Ringtones Ringback tones and MP3 video and game and a plurality of mobile handset users buy and download the music video and game or the like onto their mobile handsets . The media store server provides a media platform an interface implemented in a form of webpage accessible by personal computers or in a form of application installed in the mobile handsets and the mobile handset users buy and download the music provided by the vendors servers onto their mobile handsets . The media store server offers access to multimedia contents available from servers of one or more vendors. The media store server provides customers digital information devices with a catalog of the content offered through the media store server. While the mobile handset users access the media store platform and buy the music cataloged therein actual downloading of music may be performed via a wireless network between the mobile handset and the vendors servers without involvement of the media store platform in the handling of the actual content.

Vendors servers store music including Ringtones Ringback tones and music on demand MOD videos and game software to be transferred to the wireless network upon request of the mobile handset . Vendors servers employ an application for easy interfacing with the media store platform in sending and receiving data such as information on catalog and textual identification of music and video without needing to code for system interface or understand wireless applications. For example BREW Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless developed by Qualcomm may be used which is a software platform that can download and run small programs for sending messages and sharing multimedia data photos video music without needing to code for system interface or understand wireless applications. Vendors servers also store their own catalogs which are respective categorized lists of music video etc. e.g. according to titles artists directors performers and albums collections . Vendors catalogs however have diverse versions of descriptions for even the same music because titles and artist names are variously represented by different texts associated with different content files on the various servers.

The media store server provides the media store platform to the vendors and the mobile handset users in the form of HyperText Markup Language HTML type webpages accessible by PCs and mobile handsets or a handset embedded application specifically tailored to the mobile handsets. The media store server has a catalog manager to obtain and search various catalogs from the plurality of vendors servers and optimize the obtained catalog information to produce a catalog for the media store platform itself. The catalog manager is a software implemented functional component performed by the media store server .

The media store server is also implemented with an application programming interface API which is composed of functionalities for interfacing with the vendors and mobile handset users activities. The API allows a wide range of common computing functions to be written such that they may operate on many different systems here vendors servers PCs and components of landline and wireless network systems. Each of the media store server has a catalog database to store the optimized catalog by the catalog manager . The catalog database stores lists of descriptive texts of music or the like which are obtainable from plural vendors servers grouped according to descriptive texts album genre and artists and stores identification keys assigned to each of the grouped lists of descriptive texts.

The media store server and the vendor s servers for example each include a data communication interface for packet data communication amongst the servers via Internet or Intranet transport. Each of the media store server and the vendor s servers also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature. Of course the functions of each particular server may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar hardware platforms to distribute the processing load.

The mobile handset users can access the media store platform provided by the media store server via the PCs through the Internet . In this case as illustrated in the web based media platform or interface is provided to the PCs . The web based media platform also can be accessed by the mobile handset through a wireless communication network . On the other hand a pre installed application which is customized to the mobile handset may allow the mobile handset to access the media store platform through the wireless communication network and enjoy the same functionalities as those provided by the web based media store platform.

The mobile handsets may take many forms. For example some mobile handsets may be mobile telephone stations at least some with enhanced display and user input capabilities to support browsing and other data communications applications in addition to voice telephone service. Some of these data services may be location based and require a fix on position of the mobile station. Many high end devices offering enhanced features are referred to as smart phones. Other mobile handsets may comprise Portable Digital Assistants PDAs with built in wireless communication capabilities. As another alternative a wireless device such as a mobile transceiver having data communication capabilities may be connected to a portable computing device such as a handheld or laptop type computer.

Catalog converter and matcher converts descriptive texts in the catalogs obtained from the vendors servers appropriate for the media store platform and finds and matches of same music and video titles data in the catalogs obtained from the vendors servers based on the converted descriptive texts. The catalog converter and matcher is a software implemented functional entity of the media store server by execution of which the media store server performs the above converting and matching operations. Grouping module pulls together matched descriptive texts of the music or the like from plural vendors server and groups music corresponding to the matched descriptive texts according to e.g. artists genre or collections. The grouping module assigns integer keys to each of music of the groups for identifying each group. The catalog converter and matcher and the grouping module in combination perform the process to group music from plural vendors servers as illustrated in .

Catalog management web tool allows media store managers to manage catalogs in the catalog database and change environment e.g. criteria for matching data in the catalog converter and matcher in the media store platform. Data tweaker modifies descriptive texts of music and video stored in the catalog database and provides diversely categorized lists of music and video on the media store platform e.g. rank of most downloaded music . Data tweaker also pulls remote images from the vendors servers and optimizes the images appropriate for the media store platform by using an image browser which for example browses thumbnails direct images on webpages and icons hidden in program files. Billing pricing and subscription module deals with subscription requests from mobile handset users billing processes after downloading of music and video into the mobile handsets . The catalog management web tool the data tweaker and the billing pricing and subscription module are software implemented functional components of the media store server by execution of which the media store server performs the above discussed respective functions.

The system of may offer a variety of content types. For discussion purposes we will assume that the content relates to music although the music related content may include other associated content types e.g. ringtone ringback tone video and game software. is a flowchart illustrating a process performed by the media store server the mobile handsets and a vendor in downloading music or video related content. A mobile handset user or a customer who wants to buy and download music or video to a mobile handset accesses the media store server via the mobile handset or the PC and signs on to get a permission to access to a media store platform provided by the media store server . S The media store platform is an interface for users accessing the media store server via the PC or mobile handset to search the catalog in the media store server and purchase and request to download music or the like.

The media store server provides the media store platform to the mobile handset or PC upon request to access the media store platform via the user s sign on. In case that the customer requested to access the media store platform via the PC the webpage type media store platform is transmitted and displayed to the PC . S When the mobile handset user requested to access the media store platform via the mobile handset a media store platform compatible with pre installed application which may be implemented with mobile platform development applications such as JAVA and SYMBIAN is transmitted to and displayed on the mobile handset . The mobile handset user or customer searches music or the like via the SEARCH tool in the media store platform to find his or her desired music or video. S As disclosed in the mobile handset user or customer requests the music Beautiful by inputting term Beautiful via selection of the menu SEARCH. The searched term Beautiful is transferred to the media store server . The media store server searches the music including the searched term Beautiful in its catalog database and sends search result to the mobile handset or PC . S The search result usually includes list of a plurality of music and video e.g. diverse versions of the same music or video and plural music and video of which title includes the same searched term as disclosed in . The mobile handset user or customer selects music and video to purchase among the searched result and pays the price for downloading the music or video.

The mobile handset user pays the price to the media store the wireless communication service provider via Pre Pay or Post Pay method. After payment is completed the selection is transferred to the media store server . S The media store server notifies a vendor which stores the selected music or video of the selection of the music or video by the mobile handset user or customer . S Since the selected music or video is stored in the vendors servers the selected music is delivered from the vendor s server into the mobile handset via the Multimedia Messaging Service MMS through the wireless network. S After downloading is completed the media store server shares the price for downloading with the vendor. S The transactions for sharing the price is performed between the media store server and the vendor billing server and the transactions may be performed right after downloading or aggregated revenue for downloading music or video may be settled periodically.

The grouping uses expected common information from the descriptive texts for the various content files. In the example artist name and track name or song title are combined as a pair for processing. Hence in our example the content search module searches and retrieves a pair formed by artist and track name of a content file from one or more of the vendors catalogs. S The artist and track pair is one example of descriptive text for the music and the descriptive text for the music is not limited to the artist and track names. While the search can be performed based on only artist name or only track name in this example the pair of artist and track names are criteria for the search and therefore are manipulated in the subsequent processing for comparison and grouping. For discussion purposes the retrieved artist and track names are set as Hop and hip and Blue s and Doctor and Doom. 

In the example the retrieved pair of artist and track names is converted into a standard format i.e. a token for a searchable string or key by sequential parsing or changing text characters of the artist and track names. S Each of the retrieved artist and track names in the pair is changed into the upper case. For example if the retrieved pair of artist and track names is Hop and hip and Blue s sung by Doctor and Doom the track and artist names are converted to upper case HOP AND HIP AND BLUE S AND DOCTOR AND DOOM. Then to simplify the track and artist name conventional terms included in track and artist name are removed from the track and artist name. The conventional terms coming out often in the artist and track name include items like THE FEATURING FEAT FT. F. BY and AND. The removed conventional terms are restricted to the terms standing alone e.g. AND is not removed from a non standing alone term CANDY. . In addition for the simplification of the track and artist name punctuation characters are removed from the track and artist name string. The punctuation characters include 

After the token is obtained from the artist and track names it is checked whether the obtained token exists in the catalog of the media store server. S If the obtained token exists in the catalog of the media store server which means a group of music consisting of music having the same token is already formed and stored in the catalog of the media store server. This essentially involves comparing the newly generated token with tokens that are already stored exist in the media store catalog. If there is a match the newly generated token already exists in the catalog. If the newly generated token did not previously exist there will be no match. If the token exist the new content is identified with the existing group.

If the obtained token does not exist in the catalog of the media store server a group of music consisting of music having the token has not previously been formed and stored in the catalog of the media store server.

If the token in this example HOPANDHIPBDOCTO exists in the catalog of the media store server the retrieved music Hop and hip and Blue s sung by Doctor and Doom is classified under the group having the token HOPANDHIPBDOCTO. The content description from which the token was newly generated is assigned an already existing integer grouping key corresponding to the token HOPANDHIPBDOCTO. The key consists of a number e.g. 1111 to be easily identified as that of the group of music having the token HOPANDHIPBDOCTO. S The assignment of the integer grouping key to the retrieved music Hop and hip and Blue s sung by Doctor and Doom and grouping of the retrieved music Hop and hip and Blue s sung by Doctor and Doom under the group having the integer grouping key are stored in the catalog of the media store server. In this way content files related to the same music are assigned to the same group even if resident on different vendors server stored in different formats ringtone ringback tone MP3 videos relate to different albums collections or performances etc.

If the token in this example HOPANDHIPBDOCTO does not exist in the catalog of the media store server a new group of music consisting of music having the token HOPANDHIPBDOCTO and a new integer key e.g. 1001 corresponding the new group of music are generated. In this situation the generated new integer key 1001 is assigned to the music Hop and hip and Blue s sung by Doctor and Doom. S The assignment of the integer grouping key to the retrieved music Hop and hip and Blue s sung by Doctor and Doom and grouping of the retrieved music Hop and hip and Blue s sung by Doctor and Doom under the new group having the integer grouping key are stored in the catalog of the media store server. However subsequently processed content descriptions for the same related music will produce the same token and will receive the assignment of the integer via steps S and S for grouping with the content descriptions that first produced the token.

As a result of grouping process of diverse versions of same music e.g. Ringtone and Ringback tone versions of music Hop and hip and Blue s are grouped and stored in the catalog of the media store server under the same group e.g. having the integer grouping key indicating the music in the group having the token e.g.

 HOPANDHIPBDOCTO. The catalog of the media store server can present in the catalog on the media store platform groups of music with high accuracy classified according to track and artist names. The criteria for grouping the music can be other descriptive text for music such as album and collection names and genre.

As shown by the above discussion functions relating to the catalog grouping of multimedia contents based on the matching of descriptive text of music or the like and implementing the media store platform may be implemented on computers connected for data communication via the components of a packet data network operating as the media store server as shown in . Although special purpose devices may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server programming so as to implement the functions discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk drives etc. for code and data storage and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for the catalog manager . The software code is executable by the general purpose computer that functions as the server and or that functions as a terminal device. In operation the code is stored within the general purpose computer platform. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate general purpose computer system. Execution of such code by a processor of the computer platform enables the platform to implement the methodology for matching and finding descriptive texts of music or the like in vendors catalog with descriptive texts of music or the like in the media store s server in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

Hence aspects of the methods of grouping contents for catalog purposes by processing the descriptive texts of music or the like as outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer of the network operator into the computer platform. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the catalog manager the API the media store platform etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

