---

title: Apparatus and methods for hydrocarbon extraction
abstract: Systems and methods for hydrocarbon extraction from hydrocarbon-containing material. Such systems and methods relate to extracting hydrocarbon from hydrocarbon-containing material employing a non-aqueous extractant. Additionally, such systems and methods relate to recovering and reusing non-aqueous extractant employed for extracting hydrocarbon from hydrocarbon-containing material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09321968&OS=09321968&RS=09321968
owner: Honeywell Federal Manufacturing & Technologies, LLC
number: 09321968
owner_city: Kansas City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130215
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 777 428 filed May 11 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 398 824 which claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 177 505 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR OIL EXTRACTION FROM TAR SANDS filed May 12 2009 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was developed with support from the U.S. government under a contract with the United States Department of Energy Contract No. DE ACO4 01AL66850. Accordingly the U.S. government has certain rights in the present invention.

One or more embodiments of the invention relate to apparatus and methods for hydrocarbon extraction from a hydrocarbon containing material. More particularly various embodiments of the invention relate to extracting hydrocarbon from a hydrocarbon containing material with an extractant.

Oil sands a.k.a. tar sands are a type of hydrocarbon deposit that typically contain bitumen which is an extra heavy type of oil or petroleum. Generally oil sands are naturally occurring mixtures of sand clay water and bitumen. Given the dense and viscous nature of bitumen it cannot be pumped from an oil sands deposit using conventional petroleum extraction methods. Thus various techniques have been developed to recover bitumen from oil sands deposits such as strip mining open pit mining or extraction methods involving lowering the viscosity of the bitumen such as by heating or addition of solvents.

Much of the world s petroleum reserves are in the form of oil sands. In fact it is estimated that as much as two thirds of the world s petroleum reserves are located in oil sands deposits which have the combined potential to produce more than three trillion barrels of petroleum. Oil sands deposits are found throughout the world with the largest deposits found in Canada Venezuela and the Middle East. In the Unites States oil sands are generally found in the western states primarily in Colorado Wyoming and Utah. Estimated U.S. bitumen reserves total near 100 billion barrels.

Historically the relatively low cost of petroleum has made bitumen extraction unattractive for economic reasons given the much higher cost of obtaining and upgrading bitumen compared to conventional petroleum. In recent years however the increased cost per barrel of oil has made bitumen extraction a profitable venture. Typically oil sands deposits near the surface are recovered by open pit mining techniques. Large powered shovels load oil sands ore into trucks for transport to an extraction plant where hot water separates the bitumen from the oil sands ore in large agitated separation vessels. Here the bitumen floats to the surface and is skimmed off for further processing and refinement. These systems require large quantities of water and have an increased potential for water pollution. In arid regions bitumen recovery by these methods places additional strain on scarce water resources. Accordingly improved bitumen recovery methods are desired that reduce or eliminate water usage and or pollution.

One embodiment of the invention concerns a system for separating hydrocarbon from hydrocarbon containing material using a non aqueous extractant. The system of this embodiment comprises a dryer operable to at least partially dry the hydrocarbon containing material an extraction chamber in downstream communication with the dryer and operable to facilitate contact between the hydrocarbon containing material and the non aqueous extractant and thereby produce an extract stream comprising extracted hydrocarbon and at least a portion of the extractant and a residual stream comprising residual hydrocarbon containing material and at least a portion of the extractant and an extractant recovery chamber in downstream communication with the extraction chamber and operable to facilitate contact between at least a portion of the residual stream and an extractant recovery fluid to thereby recover at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant from the residual stream.

Another embodiment of the invention concerns a method for separating hydrocarbon from hydrocarbon containing material. The method of this embodiment comprises a drying the hydrocarbon containing material in a drying zone thereby producing dried hydrocarbon containing material b contacting the dried hydrocarbon containing material with a non aqueous extractant thereby separating at least a portion of the hydrocarbon from the dried hydrocarbon containing material and producing an extract stream and a residual stream where the extract stream comprises at least a portion of the hydrocarbon and at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant and where the residual stream comprises at least a portion of the dried hydrocarbon containing material and at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant and c contacting at least a portion of the residual stream with an extractant recovery fluid thereby producing a recovered extractant stream and a cleaned hydrocarbon containing material.

Yet another embodiment of the invention concerns a method for recovering heavy oil from tar sands. The method of this embodiment comprises a contacting the tar sands comprising heavy oil with heated air to thereby produce dried tar sands b contacting at least a portion of the dried tar sands with limonene in an extraction vessel to thereby remove at least a portion of the heavy oil from the dried tar sands and produce a first stream comprising heavy oil and limonene and a second stream comprising residual tar sands and limonene and c separating at least a portion of the limonene from the residual tar sands in the second stream.

The following detailed description of the invention references the accompanying drawings that illustrate specific embodiments in which the invention can be practiced. The embodiments are intended to describe aspects of the invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments can be utilized and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Referring initially to a system for extracting hydrocarbon from a hydrocarbon containing material is depicted comprising a drying zone a hydrocarbon extraction zone a hydrocarbon separation zone and an extractant recovery zone . In the embodiment of hydrocarbon containing material can initially be introduced into the drying zone via a line . The hydrocarbon containing material in the line can be any hydrocarbon containing material known or hereafter discovered in the art such as for example oil sands ore or oil shale. In one or more embodiments the hydrocarbon containing material in the line is oil sands ore. As used herein the term oil sands ore shall denote any material excavated from an oil sands deposit that comprises hydrocarbon and at least one inorganic component. As used herein the term hydrocarbon shall be construed as it is generally understood in the art and is intended to denote any naturally occurring organic compounds comprising hydrogen and carbon atoms but may include other elements and compounds such as for example nitrogen oxygen sulfur various metals and or asphaltenes. Examples of such hydrocarbons include but are not limited to bitumen petroleum and kerogen. In various embodiments the hydrocarbon containing material in the line can be in the form of a particulate solid.

In various embodiments when the hydrocarbon containing material in the line is oil sands ore the oil sands ore can comprise hydrocarbon in an amount of at least 1 weight percent at least 3 weight percent or at least 5 weight percent based on the entire weight of the oil sands ore. Additionally the oil sands ore in the line can have a hydrocarbon content of less than 40 weight percent less than 20 weight percent less than 15 weight percent or less than 10 weight percent. Furthermore the oil sands ore in the line can have a hydrocarbon content in the range of from about 1 to about 40 weight percent in the range of from about 2 to about 20 weight percent in the range of from about 3 to about 15 weight percent or in the range of from 5 to 10 weight percent. In various embodiments the oil sands ore in the line can have a hydrocarbon content of about 8 weight percent. In various embodiments the hydrocarbon in the oil sands ore in the line can be bitumen. Also the oil sands ore in the line can further comprise components typically found in oil sands ore such as for example water clay and sand. In various embodiments the hydrocarbon containing material in the line can be at ambient temperature and pressure.

When oil sands ore is employed as the hydrocarbon containing material in the line the oil sands ore can be procured employing any now known or hereafter discovered methods in the art. For example the oil sands ore procurement process can comprise surface mining techniques which typically involve removing the overburden on top of the oil sand deposit and thereafter excavating oil sands ore. Examples of surface mining techniques include but are not limited to strip mining and open pit mining. In addition to these methods the mining process of the present invention can also employ any underground mining techniques or in situ methods known in the art. Prior to introduction into drying zone the hydrocarbon containing material in the line can undergo various pretreatment options known to those skilled in the art. For example the hydrocarbon containing material in the line can be delumped and or pulverized if desired. Additionally the line can comprise any conventional or hereafter discovered methods for transporting particulate solids such as for example an auger a conveyor or a gravity assisted chute.

As noted above the hydrocarbon containing material e.g. oil sands ore in the line can be introduced into the drying zone . In the drying zone the hydrocarbon containing material can be heated to remove at least a portion of water from the hydrocarbon containing material. Such heating in the drying zone can be accomplished by introducing a heated gas e.g. air into the drying zone via the line . The heated gas introduced into the drying zone can have a temperature in the range of from about 120 to about 220 F. The temperature in the drying zone can be any temperature suitable for removing water from hydrocarbon containing material e.g. oil sands ore . Additionally the temperature in the drying zone can be maintained so as to effect water removal from the hydrocarbon containing material while minimizing hydrocarbon vaporization. In various embodiments the drying zone can be maintained at an average temperature of at least 80 F. at least 100 F. or at least 120 F. Additionally the drying zone can be maintained at an average temperature in the range of from about 80 to about 190 F. in the range of from about 100 to about 170 F. or in the range of from 120 to 150 F. Drying of the hydrocarbon containing material in the drying zone can be performed at atmospheric or substantially atmospheric pressure. In alternate embodiments drying of the hydrocarbon containing material in the drying zone can be performed under vacuum.

In one or more embodiments the drying zone can be defined within one or more dryers. Any dryers known or hereafter discovered in the art can be employed to define the drying zone . Examples of dryers suitable for use in defining the drying zone include but are not limited to drum dryers disc dryers belt dryers paddle dryers fluidized beds venturi dryers and rotary dryers. In various embodiments the drying zone is defined within a rotary dryer.

Following drying in the drying zone a vapor phase can be withdrawn via a vapor phase outlet not depicted in fluid flow communication with the line . Additionally after drying a dried hydrocarbon containing material can be withdrawn via a hydrocarbon containing material outlet not depicted coupled to the line . As used herein the term dried when referring to hydrocarbon containing material shall mean that at least a portion of water has been removed therefrom the term is not intended to require a complete or even substantially complete absence of water although such a condition is not excluded . In various embodiments the dried hydrocarbon containing material in the line can have a water content that is at least 10 weight percent at least 20 weight percent at least 30 weight percent at least 40 weight percent at least 50 weight percent at least 60 weight percent at least 70 weight percent at least 80 weight percent at least 90 weight percent or at least 99 weight percent less than the water content of the hydrocarbon containing material in the line . Additionally the dried hydrocarbon containing material in the line can have an average temperature of less than 130 F. less than 110 F. or less than 90 F.

Following drying in the drying zone the dried hydrocarbon containing material in the line can be introduced into the hydrocarbon extraction zone . The dried hydrocarbon containing material in the hydrocarbon extraction zone can be contacted with a non aqueous extractant which can be introduced into the hydrocarbon extraction zone via the line . As used herein the term non aqueous when modifying the term extractant shall mean that the extractant comprises less than 50 weight percent water. In various embodiments the non aqueous extractant can have a water content of less than 40 weight percent less than 30 weight percent less than 20 weight percent less than 10 weight percent or less than 1 weight percent. Furthermore in one or more embodiments the non aqueous extractant can comprise no or substantially no water.

The non aqueous extractant employed in the hydrocarbon extraction zone can comprise any substance that can at least partially dissolve a hydrocarbon. In various embodiments the extractant can be a liquid at standard temperature and pressure STP . Additionally the extractant can have a boiling point of at least 100 F. at least 150 F. at least 175 F. at least 200 F. at least 250 F. or at least 300 F. In one or more embodiments the extractant can have a boiling point in the range of from about 100 to about 570 F. in the range of from about 200 to about 500 F. or in the range of from 300 to 400 F. Furthermore in one or more embodiments the extractant can be Generally Recognized as Safe GRAS according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. In various embodiments the non aqueous extractant can comprise one or more terpenes or terpene alcohols. Examples of suitable terpenes include but are not limited to limonene pinene pinene and mixtures of two or more thereof. In one or more embodiments the non aqueous extractant comprises limonene. As used herein the term limonene is intended to encompass all stereoisomers of limonene as well as any racemic mixture thereof. Additionally the non aqueous extractant introduced into hydrocarbon extraction zone via the line can comprise limonene in an amount of at least 50 weight percent at least 75 weight percent or at least 99 weight percent. In various embodiments limonene can constitute all or substantially all of the non aqueous extractant employed in hydrocarbon extraction zone . The non aqueous extractant in the line can have a temperature in the range of from about 30 to about 90 F.

In one or more embodiments the hydrocarbon extraction zone can be operated so as to achieve countercurrent or substantial countercurrent flow of the dried hydrocarbon containing material from the line and the non aqueous extractant from the line . Additionally the hydrocarbon extraction zone can be operated employing a weight ratio of hydrocarbon containing material to non aqueous extractant in the range of from about 1 10 to about 10 1 in the range of from about 1 5 to about 5 1 or in the range of from about 1 3 to about 3 1. In various embodiments the dried hydrocarbon containing material can be present in the hydrocarbon extraction zone in an amount in the range of from about 10 to about 60 weight percent in the range of from about 20 to about 50 weight percent or in the range of from about 30 to about 40 weight percent based on the combined weight of the dried hydrocarbon containing material and the non aqueous extractant. Additionally the non aqueous extractant can be present in the hydrocarbon extraction zone in an amount in the range of from about 40 to about 90 weight percent in the range of from about 50 to about 80 weight percent or in the range of from 60 to 70 weight percent based on the combined weight of the dried hydrocarbon containing material and the non aqueous extractant.

In one or more embodiments the non aqueous extractant can remove at least a portion of the hydrocarbon from the dried hydrocarbon containing material in the extraction zone . In various embodiments the extractant can remove at least 50 weight percent at least 60 weight percent at least 70 weight percent at least 80 weight percent at least 90 weight percent at least 95 weight percent or at least 99 weight percent of the hydrocarbon from the dried hydrocarbon containing material. Such removal can be accomplished for example by dissolving or substantially dissolving the hydrocarbon from the dried hydrocarbon containing material in the non aqueous extractant.

Contact between the dried hydrocarbon containing material and the non aqueous extractant can result in the formation of an extract stream and a residual stream. The extract stream can comprise extracted hydrocarbon removed from the dried hydrocarbon containing material along with at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant. The extract stream can be withdrawn from an extract stream outlet not shown in the hydrocarbon extraction zone and in fluid flow communication with a line . The residual stream can comprise residual hydrocarbon containing material and at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant. The residual stream can be withdrawn from the hydrocarbon extraction zone via a residual stream outlet not shown in fluid flow communication with a line .

The hydrocarbon extraction zone can be operated at a temperature in the range of from about 20 to about 80 F. Additionally the hydrocarbon extraction zone can be operated at atmospheric pressure. Furthermore an inert gas blanket may be employed in the head space above the non aqueous extractant and dried hydrocarbon containing material. Such inert gas blanket can comprise carbon dioxide or nitrogen for example.

Apparatus suitable for use in defining hydrocarbon extraction zone can be any apparatus operable to facilitate contact between a liquid and a particulate solid and thereafter separate the resulting slurry into a primarily liquid stream and a primarily solids stream. As used herein the terms primarily predominantly and majority shall mean greater than 50 percent. Examples of such apparatus include but are not limited to rotary drum vessels and centrifuges.

In various embodiments the hydrocarbon extraction zone can be defined within a rotary drum vessel. Referring now to a rotary drum vessel is depicted as being suitable for use in defining hydrocarbon extraction zone . The lines and of can operate and have contents the same or substantially the same as the lines and respectively described with reference to . In various embodiments the rotary drum vessel can be operated at a rotation speed in the range of from about 1 to about 10 rpm. Optionally the rotary drum vessel can be operated at increased rotation speeds for discharge of the residual stream and or the extract stream.

In one or more embodiments the rotary drum vessel can comprise an internal spiral member not depicted employed for advancing the hydrocarbon containing material from the dried hydrocarbon containing material inlet not depicted to the residual hydrocarbon containing material outlet not depicted . Any spiral member that advances solids while permitting countercurrent flow of a liquid can be employed in the rotary drum vessel . Such internal spiral member can be for example an auger axially disposed within the rotary drum vessel or spiral flights affixed along the inner surface of the rotary drum vessel . When an independent auger is employed the auger can be rotated at a speed different from that of the rotary drum vessel in order to advance the dried hydrocarbon containing material. In various embodiments the auger can have a rotational speed difference compared to the rotary drum vessel in the range of about 1 to about 5 rpm or in the range of from 1 to 3 rpm.

In one or more embodiments the rotary drum vessel can be operated at an inclined angle such that the residual hydrocarbon containing material outlet not depicted is elevated above the dried hydrocarbon containing material inlet not depicted . In various embodiments the rotary drum vessel can be operated at an angle of at least 5 at least 10 or at least 15 from horizontal along its axis of rotation. Additionally the rotary drum vessel can be operated at an angle of less than 30 less than 25 or less than 20 from horizontal along its axis of rotation. Operating the rotary drum vessel in the manner just described can create a substantially countercurrent flow of hydrocarbon containing material and non aqueous extractant when dried hydrocarbon containing material is introduced into the lowered end of the rotary drum vessel e.g. via the line and non aqueous extractant is introduced into the raised end of the rotary drum vessel e.g. via the line . Countercurrent or substantial countercurrent flow is thus created by non aqueous extractant flowing via gravity towards the lower end of the rotary drum vessel while hydrocarbon containing material advances to the raised end of the rotary drum vessel with the aid of the above mentioned internal spiral member not depicted . It should be noted that the internal spiral member can extend either fully or only partially through the rotary drum vessel . When the internal spiral member extends only partially through the rotary drum vessel the internal spiral member can extend in the range of from about 40 percent to about 70 percent of the length of the rotary drum vessel and can be coterminous or substantially coterminous with the raised end of the rotary drum vessel . Furthermore in various embodiments the extractant introduced via the line can be introduced in such a manner as to contact the residual hydrocarbon containing material immediately prior to the residual hydrocarbon containing material exiting the rotary drum vessel .

Referring again to as mentioned above an extract stream can be withdrawn from the hydrocarbon extraction zone via the line . The extract stream in the line can comprise extracted hydrocarbon and at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant from the hydrocarbon extraction zone . In one or more embodiments the extract stream in the line can comprise hydrocarbon in an amount in the range of from about 1 to about 40 weight percent in the range from about 5 to about 30 weight percent or in the range of from 10 to 20 weight percent based on the entire weight of the extract stream in the line . Additionally the extract stream in the line can comprise non aqueous extractant in an amount in the range of from about 60 to about 99 weight percent in the range of from about 70 to about 95 weight percent or in the range of from 80 to 90 weight percent.

Following withdrawal from the hydrocarbon extraction zone the extract stream in the line can be introduced into the hydrocarbon separation zone . The hydrocarbon separation zone can operate to separate at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant from the hydrocarbon in the extract stream from the line . Any liquid liquid separation method known or hereafter discovered in the art can be employed in the hydrocarbon separation zone . In one or more embodiments at least 50 weight percent at least 60 weight percent at least 70 weight percent at least 80 weight percent at least 90 weight percent or at least 95 weight percent of the non aqueous extractant in the extract stream from the line can be separated in the hydrocarbon separation zone . In other embodiments all or substantially all of the non aqueous extractant in the extract stream from the line can be separated in the hydrocarbon separation zone .

In various embodiments the hydrocarbon separation zone can be defined within a distillation still or distillation column. Furthermore in one or more embodiments a distillation system such as the one depicted in can be employed for hydrocarbon separation zone . Referring now to an extract stream can initially be introduced into the distillation unit via the line . The extract stream in the line can be the same or substantially the same as the extract stream in the line described with reference to . Distillation unit can be any conventional or hereafter discovered distillation still or distillation column. Distillation unit can be operated at any temperature and pressure sufficient to separate non aqueous extractant from the extract stream. In various embodiments distillation in distillation unit can be performed at elevated temperature and atmospheric pressure. Alternatively distillation in distillation unit can be operated under reduced pressure thereby permitting lower temperatures to be employed.

Vapor phase non aqueous extractant can be withdrawn from the distillation unit via the line and routed to a condensation unit . The condensation unit can operate using any known or hereafter discovered methods for condensing a vapor. The resulting condensed vapor can be withdrawn from the condensation unit via the line and routed to a hydrocarbon extraction zone such as the hydrocarbon extraction zone described with reference to . In an alternative embodiment heat can be recovered from the vapor phase non aqueous extractant in a heat recovery zone . Heat recovery zone can comprise any known or hereafter discovered methods for recovering heat from a vapor. For example the vapor phase extractant from the line could optionally be employed to heat the working fluid in a Rankine cycle. Recovered energy from the heat recovery zone can be employed in various other parts of the system depicted in such as for example in the drying zone e.g. to heat the gas employed for drying or the extractant recovery zone . Condensed non aqueous extractant can be withdrawn from the heat recovery zone via the line and can be routed to a hydrocarbon extraction zone such as the hydrocarbon extraction zone described with reference to .

Referring again to following separation in the hydrocarbon separation zone a hydrocarbon rich stream can be withdrawn via the line and a non aqueous extractant rich stream can be withdrawn via the line . In various embodiments bitumen can constitute at least 90 at least 95 or at least 99 weight percent of the hydrocarbon rich stream in the line . Additionally the hydrocarbon rich stream in the line can comprise residual amounts of non aqueous extractant e.g. limonene . In various embodiments the hydrocarbon rich stream in the line can comprise non aqueous extractant in an amount of less than 10 less than 5 or less than 1 weight percent. The non aqueous extractant rich stream in the line can comprise non aqueous extractant in an amount of at least 90 at least 95 or at least 99 weight percent. As noted above at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant rich stream in the line can be routed back to the hydrocarbon extraction zone to be employed for further hydrocarbon extraction. It should be noted that although a closed loop system is employed make up non aqueous extractant can be introduced into the hydrocarbon extraction zone to account for losses of non aqueous extractant such as by incomplete separation in the hydrocarbon separation zone .

Referring still to as noted above a residual stream can be withdrawn from the hydrocarbon extraction zone via the line . The residual stream in the line can comprise residual hydrocarbon containing material non aqueous extractant and or minor amounts of hydrocarbon. The residual hydrocarbon containing material can comprise all or substantially all of the components of the dried hydrocarbon containing material introduced into the hydrocarbon extraction zone with the exception of the hydrocarbon removed during hydrocarbon extraction. For example when the hydrocarbon containing material is oil sands ore the residual hydrocarbon containing material can typically comprise clay sand and or other typically inorganic components. The residual stream in the line can comprise residual hydrocarbon containing material in an amount of at least 80 weight percent at least 90 weight percent at least 95 weight percent or at least 99 weight percent based on the entire weight of the residual stream in the line . Additionally the residual stream in the line can comprise a combined amount of hydrocarbon and non aqueous extractant in the range of from about 0.1 to about 10 weight percent in the range of from about 0.5 to about 5 weight percent or in the range of from 1 to 3 weight percent based on the entire weight of the residual stream in the line . Furthermore the hydrocarbon can constitute in the range of from about 1 to about 30 weight percent in the range of from about 3 to about 20 weight percent or in the range of from 5 to 15 weight percent of the combined hydrocarbon and non aqueous extractant in the residual stream in the line .

In various embodiments the residual hydrocarbon containing material stream in the line can be introduced into the extractant recovery zone . The extractant recovery zone can operate to remove at least a portion of hydrocarbon and or non aqueous extractant from the residual stream. Any methods known or hereafter discovered in the art for separating hydrocarbon and or non aqueous extractant from a solid particulate material can be employed in the extractant recovery zone .

In one or more embodiments the residual stream can be contacted with an extractant recovery fluid which can be introduced into extractant recovery zone via a line . Any fluid capable of removing at least a portion of hydrocarbon and or non aqueous extractant from the residual hydrocarbon containing material can be employed in extractant recovery zone . In various embodiments the extractant recovery fluid can comprise carbon dioxide. Furthermore the carbon dioxide can be at least partially in a liquid or supercritical state. In one or more embodiments at least 50 weight percent at least 60 weight percent at least 70 weight percent at least 80 weight percent at least 90 weight percent or at least 95 weight percent of the carbon dioxide can be in a liquid state upon initial contact with the residual hydrocarbon containing material in extractant recovery zone . In further embodiments the carbon dioxide can be completely or substantially completely in the liquid phase upon initial contact with the residual hydrocarbon containing material in the extractant recovery zone . In various embodiments the extractant recovery fluid can be under pressure upon introduction into the extractant recovery zone . For example the extractant recovery fluid in the line can be under a pressure of at least 500 pounds per square inch gauge psig at least 650 psig or at least 800 psig. In other embodiments the extractant recovery fluid in the line can be under a pressure in the range of from about 500 to about 1 200 psig in the range of from about 650 to about 1 050 psig or in the range of from 800 to 900 psig. Additionally the extractant recovery fluid in the line can be at a temperature in the range of from about 50 to about 100 F. or in the range of from 60 to 80 F.

Following treatment in extractant recovery zone a cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material can be withdrawn via a line . When oil sands ore is employed as the hydrocarbon containing material the cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material can consist essentially of cleaned sand. In one or more embodiments the cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material in the line can have a hydrocarbon content of less than 1 weight percent less than 0.5 weight percent less than 0.1 weight percent less than 0.05 weight percent or less than 0.01 weight percent. Similarly the cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material in the line can comprise non aqueous extractant in an amount of less than 1 weight percent less than 0.5 weight percent less than 0.1 weight percent less than 0.05 weight percent or less than 0.01 weight percent. The cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material in the line can be disposed of according to any known or hereafter discovered methods in the art.

The recovered non aqueous extractant and hydrocarbon can be at least partially separated from the extractant recovery fluid and withdrawn from the extractant recovery zone via a line . Separation of the non aqueous extractant and hydrocarbon from the extractant recovery fluid can be achieved by any liquid liquid separation techniques known or hereafter discovered in the art. At least a portion of the separated extractant recovery fluid can be employed again for removing hydrocarbon and non aqueous extractant from fresh residual hydrocarbon containing material. In various embodiments all or substantially all of the separated extractant recovery fluid can be employed again for removing hydrocarbon and non aqueous extractant from fresh residual hydrocarbon containing material. The separated non aqueous extractant and hydrocarbon in the line can be routed to hydrocarbon separation zone where the hydrocarbon and non aqueous extractant can be at least partially separated. Alternatively at least a portion of the non aqueous extractant and hydrocarbon in the line can optionally be combined with the non aqueous extractant in the line and routed directly to the hydrocarbon extraction zone . The fluid in the line can contain non aqueous extractant in an amount in the range of from about 50 to about 99 weight percent in the range of from about 60 to about 98 weight percent or in the range of from 70 to 97 weight percent. Additionally the fluid in the line can contain hydrocarbon in an amount in the range of from about 1 to about 50 weight percent in the range of from about 2 to about 40 weight percent or in the range of from 3 to 30 weight percent.

Referring now to an extractant recovery system is depicted comprising two recovery columns a compressor a distillation unit and a condensation unit . In one or more embodiments the extractant recovery system depicted in can be employed as extractant recovery zone described with reference to .

In operation residual hydrocarbon containing material e.g. residual oil sands ore can be gravity feed via the line into the recovery column which can be gas blanketed with carbon dioxide. Alternatively though not depicted residual hydrocarbon containing material could be bottom filled into the recovery column . In various embodiments recovery column can be only partially filled with residual hydrocarbon containing material. For example recovery column can be filled to a level of less than 100 volume percent but greater than 60 greater than 70 greater than 80 or greater than 85 volume percent. In various embodiments recovery column can be filled with residual hydrocarbon containing material to about 90 volume percent. Thereafter extractant recovery fluid e.g. liquid carbon dioxide can be introduced via the line at or near the bottom of the recovery column to completely or substantially completely fill recovery column . Overflow extractant recovery fluid can be routed back to the distillation unit via the lines and . Alternatively though not depicted extractant recovery fluid could be introduced at or near the top of the recovery column such that the extractant recovery fluid would flow in a downward manner through the recovery column and could be removed via a lower outlet such as via the line . In various embodiments sufficient extractant recovery fluid can be introduced to the recovery column to give at least 1 at least 2 or at least 3 volume exchanges within the residual hydrocarbon containing material interfaces. In other embodiments sufficient extractant recovery fluid can be introduced to the recovery column to give in the range of from about 1 to about 20 in the range of from about 2 to about 10 or in the range of from 3 to 7 volume exchanges within the residual hydrocarbon containing material interfaces.

After the desired amount of extractant recovery fluid has been introduced into the recovery column the flow can be stopped and at least a portion of the extractant recovery fluid can be drained from the recovery column via the line and routed back to the distillation unit . In various embodiments after draining gas within the recovery column can be used to repressurize the recovery column to an equilibrium pressure which can be about 400 psig. Thereafter at least a portion of the remainder of the gas in the recovery column can be recovered with the aid of the compressor and routed back to the distillation unit via the line . In various embodiments the compressor can be filter protected and can comprise one or more compressor units. In various embodiments although not depicted the compressor can discharge at least a portion of the recovered gas directly to the condenser unit .

After removing the extractant recovery fluid the cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material can be gravity flowed from the recovery column via the line . The cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material in the line can have the same or substantially the same composition as the cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material in the line described with reference to . In an alternative embodiment empting the recovery column of cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material can be performed by stopping recovery of the extractant recovery fluid at approximately 10 psig and using the residual gas pressure to pneumatically convey the cleaned residual hydrocarbon containing material to a desired location.

Following extractant recovery in the recovery column extractant recovery can be performed on residual hydrocarbon containing material introduced via the line in the recovery column in the same or substantially the same manner just described with reference to the recovery column with the recovery column and the lines and functioning in the same or substantially the same manner described above with reference to the recovery column and the lines and respectively. As will be recognized by those skilled in the art the advantage of employing a dual recovery column system such as the one depicted in lies in the fact that extractant recovery can be performed in one recovery column while introducing residual hydrocarbon containing material to the other column. Thus while extractant recovery in a single recovery column is a batch process the use of at least two recovery columns simulates continuous or substantially continuous operation.

Following extractant recovery the spent extractant recovery fluid from the recovery column and or can be routed to distillation unit via the line . The spent extractant recovery fluid in the line can comprise extractant recovery fluid e.g. carbon dioxide in an amount of at least 60 weight percent at least 70 weight percent or at least 85 weight percent. Additionally the spent extractant recovery fluid in the line can comprise a combined amount of hydrocarbon e.g. bitumen and non aqueous extractant e.g. limonene of at least 0.01 weight percent and up to 40 weight percent up to 30 weight percent up to 15 weight percent up to 10 weight percent or up to 5 weight percent. The distillation unit can operate to separate at least a portion of the extractant recovery fluid from the non aqueous extractant and or hydrocarbon in the spent extractant recovery fluid from the line . Distillation in the distillation unit can be performed at any temperature and pressure combination sufficient to remove at least a portion of the extractant recovery fluid e.g. carbon dioxide . Separated extractant recovery fluid can be at least partially condensed in the condensation unit and returned via the line to either of the recovery columns for further use in recovering non aqueous extractant.

Following separation in the distillation unit the bottoms containing non aqueous extractant and hydrocarbon can be withdrawn via the line . The contents of the line can be the same or substantially the same as the contents of the line described above with reference to . It should be noted that although the system depicted in is a closed loop system additional extractant recovery fluid e.g. carbon dioxide can be added as needed to make up for losses such as by impartial separation of extractant recovery fluid in the distillation unit .

Employing the system as described above with reference to can remove a significant portion of hydrocarbon contained in the initial hydrocarbon containing material introduced into the system via the line . Overall the hydrocarbon in the line which includes hydrocarbon recovered both from the hydrocarbon extraction zone and the extractant recovery zone can constitute at least 70 weight percent at least 80 weight percent at least 90 weight percent at least 99 weight percent or at least 99.9 weight percent of the hydrocarbon initially contained in the hydrocarbon containing material introduced from the line .

Although the invention has been described with reference to the embodiments illustrated in the attached drawing figures it is noted that equivalents may be employed and substitutions made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as recited in the claims.

It should be understood that the following is not intended to be an exclusive list of defined terms. Other definitions may be provided in the foregoing description accompanying the use of a defined term in context.

As used herein the term and or when used in a list of two or more items means that any one of the listed items can be employed by itself or any combination of two or more of the listed items can be employed. For example if a composition is described as containing components A B and or C the composition can contain A alone B alone C alone A and B in combination A and C in combination B and C in combination or A B and C in combination.

As used herein the terms comprising comprises and comprise are open ended transition terms used to transition from a subject recited before the term to one or more elements recited after the term where the element or elements listed after the transition term are not necessarily the only elements that make up the subject.

As used herein the terms containing contains and contain have the same open ended meaning as comprising comprises and comprise provided above.

As used herein the terms having has and have have the same open ended meaning as comprising comprises and comprise provided above.

As used herein the terms including includes and include have the same open ended meaning as comprising comprises and comprise provided above.

The present description uses numerical ranges to quantify certain parameters relating to various embodiments of the invention. It should be understood that when numerical ranges are provided such ranges are to be construed as providing literal support for claim limitations that only recite the lower value of the range as well as claim limitations that only recite the upper value of the range. For example a disclosed numerical range of 10 to 100 shall be construed as providing literal support for a claim limitation reciting greater than 10 with no upper bounds and a claim limitation reciting less than 100 with no lower bounds .

