---

title: Integrated signaling between mobile data networks and enterprise networks
abstract: A method is provided in one example and includes receiving a request from a first network element associated with a first network for establishing a first communication session between the first network element to a first user device associated with a second network. The request includes a first user identifier used to identify a first user associated with the first user device within the first network. The method further includes translating the first user identifier to a second user identifier in which the second user identifier is used to identify the first user within the second network. The method still further includes sending a first query including the second user identifier to a second network element, and receiving a first response message including quality of service information indicated by a policy associated with the second user identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09270709&OS=09270709&RS=09270709
owner: CISCO TECHNOLOGY, INC.
number: 09270709
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130705
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of communications and more particularly to providing for integrated signaling between mobile data networks and enterprise networks.

The phenomenal growth of mobile networking is presenting mobile operators with tremendous opportunities along with corresponding challenges as they race to add capacity and services to meet accelerating demands. Mobile operators worldwide are seeing tremendous growth in mobile data subscriptions and bandwidth usage. The emergence of free over the top and offnet applications and services such as those from Skype gaming vendors and applications stores is impacting the return on investment ROI of mobile operators. Consumers can utilize these applications and services which use the operator s network without providing even an incremental usage fee to the mobile operator. While operators benefit in the near term with new subscriptions long term there are profitability challenges from the explosion of data traffic. To take advantage of the mobile Internet explosion mobile operators must add value to third party service transactions. This value can be extracted in terms of new revenue and profit. Without this value add mobile operators risk becoming simply a bandwidth bit pipe provider. As a result it is critical for mobile operators to invest strategically in their network assets allowing them to launch new services and go beyond flat rate data plans. In current networks various pieces of information like location of a subscriber and the reachability of a subscriber etc distributed in various network elements throughout the network and there is no single entity in the network which can aggregate the information present in the different network elements correlate the information and feed that information to various external entities.

A method is provided in one example and includes receiving a request from a first network element associated with a first network for establishing a first communication session between the first network element to a first user device associated with a second network. The request includes a first user identifier used to identify a first user associated with the first user device within the first network. The method further includes translating the first user identifier to a second user identifier in which the second user identifier is used to identify the first user within the second network. The method still further includes sending a first query including the second user identifier to a second network element and receiving a first response message including quality of service information indicated by a policy associated with the second user identifier.

In a particular embodiment the method further includes translating the first response message with the second user identifier to a policy query with the first user identifier.

In a particular embodiment the method further includes determining a performance quality threshold for the first communication session based upon the quality of service information and establishing the first communication session between the first network element and the first user device. In another particular embodiment the method further includes receiving performance data including at least one performance metric indicating a quality of delivery of content to the first user device by the first communication session.

In still another particular embodiment the method further includes determining whether at least one performance metric exceeds the performance quality threshold. In another particular embodiment the method further includes determining whether the quality of delivery is to be improved for the first user when it is determined that the at least one performance metric exceeds the performance quality threshold. In still another particular embodiment the method still further includes increasing a first quality of service value for the first communication session if it is determined that the quality of delivery is to be improved for the first user. In still another particular embodiment the method still further includes decreasing a second quality of service value for a second session associated with a second user device if it is determined that the quality of delivery is to be improved for the first user.

In another particular embodiment the first network is a mobile network. In still another particular embodiment the second network is an enterprise network. In still another particular embodiment the first network element includes a policy and charging rules function PCRF . In still another particular embodiment the second network element is an application server for providing one or more applications or services to first user equipment.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram showing a high level architecture of a communication system for orchestrating mobile networks in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure. Communication system includes a server including a network service and subscriber abstraction module . The network service and subscriber abstraction module includes a network infrastructure and service abstraction layer an application 3rd party application programming interface API gateway and enterprise service BUS . Server further includes a network services layer a network management system NMS and analytics module .

Communication system provides for a monetization architecture for mobile networks. Issues facing service providers today includes creating services targeted for both the enterprise and consumer markets in a rapid fashion dynamically optimizing the network to drive efficiencies and enabling a third party application developer eco system to easily leverage the power of the network. One or more embodiments of the architecture described herein address these issues. Various embodiments allow a mobile service provider fixed line provider and or large enterprise to create a platform which exposes network capabilities and allows application developers and walled gardened applications developers to leverage the power of the network allowing service providers to monetize the capabilities of the network by optimizing the infrastructure and then creating a service framework that allows service providers to quickly and efficiently create new service offers. Various embodiments provide an architecture to integrate with the existing capabilities that the service provider provides while avoiding rip and replace scenarios and ensuring faster time to market.

Network services layer provides for the management of network services within communication system . In a particular embodiment network services layer may provide one or more of identity management service management policy management device management and subscriber data management. Identity management enables a service provider to manage subscribers across all applications device types and access types. In a mobile context the Identity management functions may reside within one or more of a home location register HLR home subscriber server HSS and authentication authorization and accounting AAA server. Service management enables a service provider to manage services application charging rating functions across all access types device types and subscribers. In mobile a mobile context the service management functions may reside in one or more of an online charging system OCS and an offline charging system OFCS . Device management enables a service provider to manage device behavior when interacting with different access and applications. In a mobile context the device management functions may reside in a Open Mobile Alliance device management OMA DM function and Access network discovery and selection function ANDSF but may in other embodiments also extend into operator specific implementations that allow modification of device parameters security parameters application interaction etc.

Policy management enables a service provider to define rules based on various input parameters from identity service device management functions network functions analytics functions coupled with internally defined rules e.g. time of day promotional to determine how a specific service for a specific subscriber on a specific device at a specific instant e.g. real time when connected to a specific network is to be treated. In a mobile context the policy management functions may reside live in a policy and charging rules function PCRF . Subscriber data management enables a service provider to deliver real time services that reflect individual preferences of subscriber. Subscriber data management may encompass the overarching service layer management workflow items and underlying an service layer management database that allow for multiple structured or unstructured pieces of information to be stored and aggregated into a holistic user profile . The subscriber data that is managed may include identity information authentication information personalization information policy settings and settings for specific services. In a particular embodiment the subscriber data management includes a Subscriber Profile Repository SPR .

NMS manages the network elements also called managed devices within communication system . In a particular embodiment NMS may include discovery fault event monitoring and provisioning of network elements. Device management may include fault configuration accounting performance and security management. Management tasks include discovering network inventory monitoring device health and status providing alerts to conditions that impact system performance and identification of problems their source and possible solutions. NMS may further collect device statistics and may maintain an archive of previous network statistics including problems and solutions that were successful in the past. If faults recur NMS may search the archive for the possible solutions. Analytics module analyzes network traffic received by server in real time and provides for a view of network use within communication system . Analytics module may include analysis profiling modeling and database functions.

In accordance with one or more embodiments network service and subscriber abstraction module is configured to collect information or data from various network elements within communication system and abstract the data by examining one or more correlating factors between collected data such as an Internet Protocol IP address or mobile subscriber identifier combine the correlating data together based upon the correlating factors into a consistent store of data which can be later accessed and utilized. As a result network service and subscriber abstraction module creates structured data from unstructured data. Network service and subscriber abstraction module is configured in at least one embodiment to collect data from one or more of network services layer NMS and analytics module for abstraction and storage. The abstraction function provides a stateless communications plane for service aggregation and protocol conversion. The abstraction function is stateless but in various embodiments the database is not stateless. In one or more embodiments the collection of data may be an active pull in which network service and subscriber abstraction module is pulling information from a particular network element. In other embodiments the collection of data may be an active push in which a network element is pushing specific information to network service and subscriber abstraction module on configured thresholds or time windows. In still other embodiments network service and subscriber abstraction module may collect the data in a passive manner as the data passes through it. The abstraction layer includes a mobile IP network enabler which provides a service aggregator function. The aggregation function provides for collection and coordination of real time network subscriber application intelligence such as packet core probes and other elements for service enablement. An API gateway provides a protocol translation function securely enabling deeper integration with third parties. OSS integration provides billing and settlement integration into existing OSS as well as 3rd party Service Brokers to provide orchestration workflows.

Server is in communication with a client device a radio access network infrastructure network infrastructure and integrated applications through network infrastructure and service abstraction layer . In a particular embodiment client device may include any mobile client device such as a mobile telephone a smartphone or a tablet. In a particular embodiment client device may include mobility analytics virtual desktop infrastructure VDI virtual experience infrastructure VXI unified communications and collaboration UC C video and administration functions. RAN infrastructure include hardware and software configured to implement radio access network functions and may include operations maintenance center radio OMC R small cell eNB NB BTS RAN optimization RRH BBU and radio network controller RNC functions. Network infrastructure includes hardware and software configured to implement wired network infrastructure functions an may include optical routing legacy IN Ethernet MPC and location functions. Integrated applications are configured to provide integrated application functions such as multimedia functions to fixed or mobile subscribers. In particular embodiments the multimedia functions may include video voice over IP VOIP and IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS .

Network service and subscriber abstraction module is further configured in at least one embodiment to collect data from one or more of client device RAN infrastructure network infrastructure and integrated applications for abstraction and storage.

Server is further in communication with enterprise applications via application 3rd party API gateway and operator OSS infrastructure via enterprise service bus . Enterprise applications provide third party services and operations support systems OSS services to subscribers in the network. In particular embodiments enterprise applications may include an application server and OSS functions. In one or more embodiments enterprise applications may provide enterprise applications to communication network . In particular embodiments enterprise applications may include collaboration video communications and email services hosted either within or without the enterprise systems. Operator OSS infrastructure supports processes such as maintaining network inventory provisioning services configuring network components managing faults taking orders processing bills and collecting payments. In a particular embodiment operator OSS infrastructure may include billing customer care service fulfillment and service assurance components. The enterprise OSS may include customer care enterprise service application fulfillment employee asset tracking information security rules and other enterprise functions. The billing component may include retail billing which enables operators to generate a customer bill based on service plan usage promotions and other OSS interactions and enabling third parties to leverage operator billing systems for charging a subscriber such as for an in app purchase that appears on the customer s bill allowing third party Wi Fi providers to bill the subscriber or service delivery platform interaction e.g. ringtone download . The billing component may also differentiate enterprise data usage that is relevant to work tasks from consumer data usage that is relevant to personal tasks from the same device with the same subscriber identity. The billing component may also enable an analytical based approach to understanding subscriber billing trends as a means of providing information to an operator that might facilitate service creation campaign creation pricing etc. This may be for a prepaid user or an enterprise shared data plan user in which case the billing system also manages quota balance in real time converged across multiple access types and postpaid.

The customer care component may include customer interaction systems to provide channels for customer self service enterprise IT self service and direct machine to customer information customer relationship management to provide sophisticated marketing sales and operational support to the service provider agents who interact with the customer and subscriber management software to support care agents and direct customer interaction. The service fulfillment component may include systems to provide order management systems to orchestrate the steps needed to implement customer orders handle interdependencies requests to other content service providers CSPs cloud service providers and enterprise platform as a service PaaS and manual work orders. The service fulfillment component may further include inventory management systems to track the inventory available to supply services in the network assign resources design network connections and discover network configurations and reconcile them with inventory records. The service fulfillment component may further provide for activation to automatically configure network equipment and network serving systems to provide a subscriber requested service and engineering tools refers to support engineers who plan design install and configure networks and services including planning and design tools outside plant and geographical information systems and network installation and configuration tools.

The service assurance component may include service management systems to link customers with their individual services and enable CSPs to generate granular reports on each customer and service to validate service level commitments. The service assurance component may further include performance monitoring systems to collect circuit switched and packet data from the network elements and element management systems supplied by equipment manufacturers and provide reports for operations staff. The service assurance component may further include workforce automation software used to track incidents resulting from service disruption and effectively dispatch field resources and probe systems rely on dedicated hardware and software agents to collect signaling and media data from the network. In at least one embodiment the various components of communication system may interoperate to provide professional services including business consulting design consulting product related services system integration outsourced operations and hosted management services.

In various embodiments network server and subscriber abstraction module is configured to provide the abstracted information obtained from data sources within communication system such as client device to an information consumer such as one or more of enterprise applications and operator OSS infrastructure which uses the information to provide some value added service to subscribers in the network as will be further described herein. In one or more embodiments the structured correlated database is what allows northbound systems such as enterprise applications and operator OSS infrastructure to function more effectively.

In the particular embodiment illustrated in network services layer NMS client device RAN infrastructure integrated applications the application server of enterprise applications have push pull data connections with network service and subscriber abstraction module . Further in the particular embodiment illustrated in analytics module network infrastructure the OSS functions of enterprise applications and the component of operator OSS infrastructure have a pull connection with network service and subscriber abstraction module . In still other embodiments the one or more components may have push connections pull connections or both push and pull connections with any other component.

The phenomenal growth of mobile networking is presenting mobile operators with tremendous opportunities along with corresponding challenges as they race to add capacity and services to meet accelerating demands. Mobile operators worldwide are seeing tremendous growth in mobile data subscriptions and bandwidth usage. The emergence of over the top and offnet applications and services such as those from salesforce.com Skype gaming vendors and applications stores is impacting the return on investment ROI of mobile operators. Consumers can utilize these applications and services which use the operator s network without providing even an incremental usage fee to the mobile operator. While operators benefit in the near term with new subscriptions long term there are profitability challenges from the explosion of data traffic. To take advantage of the mobile Internet explosion mobile operators must add value to third party service transactions. This value can be extracted in terms of new revenue and profit. Without this value add mobile operators risk becoming simply a bandwidth bit pipe provider. As a result it is critical for mobile operators to invest strategically in their network assets allowing them to launch new services and go beyond flat rate data plans. In current networks various pieces of information like location of a subscriber and the reachability of a subscriber etc distributed in various network elements throughout the network and there is no single entity in the network which can aggregate the information present in the different network elements correlate the information and feed that information to various external entities.

The current challenges for creating new services may include Long time to availability typically twelve to eighteen months to enable services service silos building one service doesn t always help build the second service personalization each service has unique requirements no killer application market conditions vary between operators and regions and lag in response times it is difficult to quickly create or modify services in response to market trends. While operators have significant challenges they also have significant market advantages and unique value. For example application developers are often clamoring to leverage information only available in the network. Application provider challenges include restricted or no access to the network no real time access lack of desire to understand the operator topology difficulty in correlating multiple sources vendors and lack of standard interfaces to carrier applications services.

Mobile operators have the opportunity to leverage the key asset in their networks real time subscriber application and network intelligence and build an architecture that harvests this intelligence to monetize the network. Various embodiments described herein provide a monetization architecture that increases service velocity quickly enabling multiple use cases while providing a platform for application developers to leverage the network. This may provide increased revenue for both the operator and application developers while enhancing the subscriber experience.

At least one embodiment solves the problem of abstracting out data from different sources and organizing the data into a coherent format that can be translated into one or more external protocols such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP and Diameter Protocol. Diameter is an authentication authorization and accounting protocol for computer networks and is described in Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comments RFC 6733. Existing systems are not capable of correlating data from multiple sources perform analytics and present the information in a coherent format in a network wide scalable way. In addition existing systems require more than one entity to perform similar functions but still lack scalability to provide network scale solutions.

In various embodiments network service and subscriber abstraction module may further function as a data flow engine which incrementally correlates the data from various sources to extract useful network wide information. This along with high horizontal scalability allows network service and subscriber abstraction module to provide network level abstraction to applications and OSS systems in Enterprise Applications . In various embodiments network service and subscriber abstraction module collects network wide data performs a set of transformations on the data and correlates the data to make it presentable in a coherent format which can be used by entities outside network service and subscriber abstraction module .

In particular embodiments communication system provides for a flexible mobile architecture framework that enables operators to quickly create and modify use cases for monetization by harvesting abstracting and monetizing intelligence from the network. Monetization uses which may include such services as general consumer control points targeted ad insertion video Femto Wi Fi location presence information collaboration Telepresence congestion control telematics remote video surveillance automatic metering infrastructure ATM POS remote monitoring automation information display IMS cloud voice and video over LTE and messaging.

Referring now to is a simplified block diagram showing an embodiment of a hierarchical architectural framework of a communication system for orchestrating mobile networks in accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure. In the embodiment of communication system includes four hierarchical layers. A first layer a network layer includes client device radio access network RAN infrastructure network infrastructure and integrated applications . The network layer may include fundamental network elements of one or more mobile packet core platforms and the services contained within these platforms. A second layer may include a network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module analytics module and network management services component . A third layer may include a network services and a fourth layer may include higher level services and applications provided by a service provider including third party applications mobile applications enterprise applications OSS BSS elements and other billing network management and third party and or operator applications. In a particular embodiment network services NMS analytics and network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module may be embodied within a server . Network infrastructure includes an Internet Protocol network enabler IPNE client that performs an interworking function to interface the network layer elements of the mobile packet core with network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module . In a particular embodiment network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module interfaces with capabilities of the mobile platform via Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Extensible Markup Language XML and RESTFul interfaces as transport mechanism to expose these capabilities using an XML schema. XMPP is a communications protocol for message oriented middleware based on XML. XML is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents. Representational State Transfer REST is a style of software architecture for distributed systems and includes requests and responses built around the transfer of representations of resources. A resource can be essentially any coherent and meaningful concept that may be addressed and a representation of a resource is typically a document that captures the current or intended state of a resource. Typically a client begins sending requests when it is ready to make a transition to a new state. The representation of each application state may contain links that may be used the next time the client chooses to initiate a new state transition. Conforming to REST constraints is generally referred to as being RESTful. Capabilities and data that are exposed are stored in network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module as will be further described herein. The network layer may further include other components which make up the network platform including client side capabilities providing linkages to other domains.

In various embodiments network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module contains sub elements including a API gateway service delivery platform mobile IP network enabler MINE component a service directory component a resource manager component and an orchestration work flow engine . MINE component functions as an interface layer to IPNE client and contains a central storage to store network information such as call records and network structures that may be later accessed. In a particular embodiment central storage may be based upon a distributed file system structure and may be accessed by an XMPP interface. Access to the lower layer and requesting information from the network layer is performed through MINE component . MINE component provides a single entry point to the network and also orchestrates network requirements.

Services directory component is configured to publish network capabilities and resource availability for higher layer services. Resource manager component is configured to publish network capabilities and resource availability for applications such as third party and operator applications. In various embodiments service directory component and resource manager component perform publishing of these capabilities directly through MINE component. In particular embodiments service directory component and resource manager component publish capabilities through MINE component using an interface such as an XMPP interface. In still other embodiments service directory component and resource manager component publish capabilities through MINE component using application 3rd party API gateway .

API gateway service delivery platform exposes capabilities to the higher level services and applications of the fourth layer such as third party applications mobile applications OSS BSS elements and other billing network network management and third party and or operator applications. In a particular embodiment API gateway service delivery platform exposures capabilities to the higher level services and applications of the fourth layer via a standards based GSMA OneAPI interface by the Groupe Speciale Mobile Association GSMA . API gateway service delivery platform is further configured to provide adapters to standard service provider billing and backend systems. In at least one embodiment the combination of these layers allows a service provider to rapidly implement new service and features. Orchestration work flow engine is configured to orchestrate various network elements and coordinate workflows between network elements using MINE component as will be further described herein.

Analytics module provides functions including leveraging data store provided by MINE component and analyzing network status based upon request from orchestration work flow engine and responding via a specific trigger that may be applied to the network via a policy function. In a particular embodiment MINE component is configured to interface with analytics module via an XMPP interface and or standard mobile interfaces. In one or more embodiments analytics module may contain an analytics engine component a modeling component a profiling component and a visualization component. In various embodiments analytics module subscribes to information that is contained in data store of MINE component that analytics module and analytics module may uses this information to perform historical trend analysis. In some embodiments MINE component may be further configured to send real time feeds of data to analytics module so that analytics module may perform immediate processing of the data and or respond to one or more triggers. In another embodiment MINE component may request a query be performed on data making analytics module subservient to MINE component or more specifically making MINE component a controller of analytics module . MINE component may then trigger particular actions based on a query response received from analytics module .

Network services may provide one or more of identity management policy management service management device management and subscriber data management functions which may exist within a service provider network. MINE component is configured to provide a link between the functions provided by network services and other network elements.

In accordance with various embodiments one or more of the network elements of communication system such as the mobile packet core of network infrastructure and the TDF PEP optimization and IMS elements of integrated applications may be subscriber aware network elements that are aware of the identity of a subscriber utilizing the network elements or services. Further in various embodiments network services include subscriber databases such as the HSS HLR PCRF OCS and SPR. In accordance with various embodiments network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module provides interconnection between the subscriber aware network elements and the subscriber databases. In various embodiments network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module orchestrates and coordinates workflow between the subscriber aware network elements and subscriber databases and provides protocol translation between the various network elements and databases.

In accordance with various embodiments the above described framework allows service providers to easily offer services related to their network capabilities dynamically optimize those capabilities and create an environment which enables rapid service enablement. Various embodiments of the described architecture allow a mobile service provider a fixed line provider and or large enterprises to create a platform which exposes network capabilities and allows application developers and walled gardened application developers to leverage the power of the network. Various embodiments may allow service providers to monetize the capabilities of the network by optimizing the infrastructure and then creating a service framework that allows service providers to quickly and efficiently create new service offers. In at least one embodiment the above described architecture integrates with the existing capabilities of the service provide to avoid rip and replace scenarios and ensures faster time to market.

One or more embodiments may provide one or more advantages including leveraging the existing service provider environment to eliminate a rip and replace scenarios and allowing easy access to network capabilities which have historically been very difficult for application developers and service providers to access.

In one or more embodiments create a policy framework having three fundamental elements including policy network abstraction and orchestration and analytics tied together in conjunction with network access. Various embodiments provide a service creation environment that ties these elements together into existing service provider OSS BSS systems. Various embodiments of this framework may be used to create run multiple different services such as business to consumer B2C business to business B2B machine to machine M2M and security services. Further one or more embodiments one or more embodiments may provide a massively scalable framework that may be deployed in a cloud based architecture.

In an example workflow network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module receives a service request from enterprise applications such as an enterprise IT Telepresence server to a client device associated with a subscriber. In various embodiments network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module provides protocol translation between network elements. In a particular example the request from the third party provider is formatted as an HTTP WebRTC request. The request includes a request for a guarantee of a particular quality of services for a predetermined time period. In response orchestration work flow engine generates a DIAMETER request from the HTTP request and sends the DIAMETER request to the policy management such as the PCRF of network services to determine if the service request meets one or more policies associated with the subscriber. Orchestration work flow engine may also generated a DIAMETER request to the identify management service such as the HSS of network services to determine the identity of the subscriber associated with the service request generate a DIAMETER request to OSS BSS to determine if the billing system will allow the service request. Orchestration work flow engine may further send a request to the mobile packet core of network infrastructure to determine if there is any congestion in the network. Orchestration work flow engine may further send a request to the RAN Optimization of RAN infrastructure to determine if there is congestion on the radio interface. In still other examples orchestration work flow engine may request information from analytics module to determine based on historical information stored by analytics module whether the network will be congested in the predetermined time period. Based on responses to these various requests orchestration work flow engine may determine whether the initial request from the enterprise provider will be allowed.

In orchestration work flow engine sends a request to a billing service to perform a prepaid check to determine whether the subscriber has prepaid for the requested service. In a particular embodiment the billing system is an OCS. In the billing service performs the prepaid check to determine whether the subscriber has prepaid for the requested service. In orchestration work flow engine receives a response from the billing service indicating whether the subscriber has prepaid for the requested service. In orchestration work flow engine sends a request to the policy management service regarding whether the service request complies with one or more programmable policies. In various embodiments the programmable policies are access control policies that are programmable such as by an application or administrator. In the policy management service performs a check to determine whether the service request complies with the one or more programmable policies. In orchestration work flow engine receives a response from the policy management service indicating whether the initial request complies with the one or more programmable policies.

In orchestration work flow engine may call an external application programming interface API in instances in which a third party services needs to be invoked to satisfy the initial service request. In a particular embodiment the call to the external API is a call to an external HTTP endpoint associated with the external API. In orchestration work flow engine creates a settlement for the service request. In orchestration work flow engine sends a prepaid charge request to the billing service in order to request a charge for the service. In the billing system performs a prepaid charging change in order to charge the subscriber for the created settlement. In orchestration work flow engine receives a prepaid charging response indicating that the prepaid charging change has been performed.

In orchestration work flow engine determines whether to grant access to the requested service to client device . In at least one embodiment orchestration work flow engine determine whether to grant access to the requested service by correlating the responses received from the network elements and services and making a decision based on the responses regarding whether the service request will be granted. For example in a particular embodiment if any of the responses in the chain or responses indicate that the service request should not or cannot be granted orchestration work flow engine will not grant the service request to client device . For example if the PCRF indicates that the service request will not satisfy a particular policy if analytics module indicates that there will not be available QOS for the predetermined time period necessarily to provide the requested service or if the OCS indicates that the subscriber will not have enough balance remaining to pay for the requested service orchestration work flow engine may indicate that the requested service will not be granted to client device . In orchestration work flow engine sends an outbound response message to client device indicating whether the client device is granted access to the requested service. In a particular embodiment the outbound response is an HTTP outbound response.

Network service subscriber abstraction orchestration module is in further communication with one or more network elements . In the illustrated embodiment the one or more network elements include short message service center SMSC multimedia messaging service center MMSC mobile platform controller MPC Session Initiation Protocol SIP Proxy server billing service multimedia platform and PCRF SPR . In the particular embodiment illustrated in SMS translation module MMS translation module location translation module and voice call control translation module are in communication with network gateway translation module and payment translation module is in communication with billing service . Data connection translation module QOS profile translation module and zonal presence translation module are in communication with MINE . NGW is in further communication with SMSC MMSC MPC and SIP proxy server . MINE is in further communication with multimedia platform and PCRF SPR

Each of protocol translation modules and network gateway translation module are configured to receive a message such as a request formatted in a first protocol format and translate the message to be formatted in a second protocol format. In the illustrated embodiment of each protocol translation modules is configured to receive a message formatted in a first format . In a particular example first protocol format is an HTTP format. Protocol translation modules may be configured to translate the message received in the first protocol format to a second protocol format and communicate the translated message to NGW . Payment translation module may be configured to translate the message in first protocol format to a third format and communicate the translated message to billing service . Protocol translation modules may be configured to translate the message in the first protocol format to a fourth format and communicate the translated message to MINE . In a particular embodiment fourth protocol format is an XMPP protocol format. Network gateway translation module may be further configured to translate the message received from each of protocol translation modules in second protocol format translate the message into a fifth protocol format and communicate the translated message to network elements . MINE may be configured to translate message received from protocol translation modules in fourth format to a sixth protocol format and communicate the translated message to network elements 

In orchestration work flow engine queries the mobile packet core of network infrastructure for an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI corresponding to the network address. In orchestration work flow engine receives the IMSI corresponding to the network address from the mobile packet core. In orchestration work flow engine queries an identity management database for a subscriber identifier ID associated with the IMSI. In a particular embodiment the subscriber ID is a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number MSIDN or a mobile phone number associated with the client device of the subscriber. Although particular embodiments have been described using IMSI and MSIDN identifiers it should be understood that in other embodiments any type of subscriber identifier may be used. In at least one embodiment the identity management database is an HSS HLR. In orchestration work flow engine receives the subscriber ID associated with the IMSI from the identity management database. In the username is mapped to the subscriber ID and the IMSI. In orchestration work flow engine stores the mapping of the username subscriber ID and IMSI in the cache associated with orchestration work flow engine .

In orchestration work flow engine provides the subscriber ID and or IMSI to one or more network elements that will use the IMSI and or subscriber ID to fulfill the request for service. If it is determined in that the username and subscriber ID mapping are found in the cache associated with orchestration work flow engine the operations continue to in which orchestration work flow engine retrieves the subscriber ID and IMSI mapping to the username from the cache and proceeds to . After the operations end at . By caching of the mapping of the username and externally understood IP address to the subscriber ID IMSI and mobile network understood IP address subsequently requests including the username do not require another query of the network elements such as the identity management database or mobile packet core to determine the subscriber identity and IMSI and IP address mapping.

In orchestration work flow engine receives a first communication message from a first network element having a first protocol format. In orchestration work flow engine translates the first communication message to a second communication message having a second communication protocol format. In orchestration work flow engine sends the second communication message to a second network element.

In orchestration work flow engine determines whether a response to the requester is required. If a response to the requester is required orchestration work flow engine sends a response to the requester in and the operations continue to . If it is determined in that a response to the requestor is not required the operations continue to . In orchestration work flow engine determines whether modification of one or more network elements and or subscriber databases is required by the workflow. If modification of one or more network elements and or subscriber databases within communication system is required the operations continue to . In orchestration work flow engine modifies the one or more network elements and or subscriber databases. In particular embodiments the modification of configuration information or other data within the one or more network elements and or subscriber databases.

In a particular example RAN optimization system of RAN infrastructure detects congestion and notifies PCRF of network services that there is congestion through orchestration work flow engine . The PCRF may instantiate a workflow that requests that video optimization be instantiated for all heavy network users that are nearing their limit on the amount of data that they can consume for the month. Accordingly the PCRF may initiate a workflow in which the orchestration work flow engine determines me the heavy users who are nearing their quota limitation by querying the analytics module to determine who are the heavy users query the online charging system to determine the users who are nearing their quota return a response to the PCRF. The PCRF may instantiate a rule which enforces video optimization for these users and triggers a service path where traffic associated with those users goes to the video optimization.

The operations then continue to in which the operations end. If it is determined that modification of one or more network elements and or subscriber databases is not required the operations continue to in which the operations end.

In enterprise application sends an Upgrade Notification message UpgradeNotify to UE indicating that there will be an additional charge to utilize the requested service. In the user accepts the charge. In UE sends an Upgrade Confirmation message UpgradeConfirm to enterprise application . In enterprise application sends a Boost Request BoostRequest to NAL . In NAL sends a Service Profile Request SvcProfileRequest to PCRF requesting user profile information associated with the user of UE . In PCRF sends a Service Profile Response SvcProfileResponse to NAL including the user profile information. In NAL sends one or more Policy Charging Control PCC Requests PCCRequest1 . . . x to one or more of network elements NE1 . . . x . In one or more of network elements NE1 . . . x sends one or more PCC Responses PCCResponse1 . . . x to NAL .

In NAL performs orchestration of a BSS OSS and external network elements necessary to provide the requested service. In NAL sends a Boost Response BoostResponse to enterprise application . In network elements NE1 . . . x send one or more Resource Update messages ResourceUpdate1 . . . x to NAL . In NAL sends one or more acknowledgement messages Ack1 . . . x to one or more of network elements NE1 . . . x . It should be understood that each of the messages exchanged between the network elements and subscriber databases may be received in a particular protocol format utilized by the sending network element and translated to a particular protocol format utilized by the receiving network element.

Although the particular embodiment illustrated in shows server as including a single node it should be understood that in other embodiments server may include any number of nodes. In still other embodiments a cluster may be formed of any number of processing nodes distributed throughout a number of servers or other network elements within a communication network.

In still other embodiments mobile IP enabler MINE component is configured to provide for integrated signaling between one or more network elements associated with a mobile data network and one or more network elements associated with enterprise networks. In particular embodiments MINE component provides a network address translation function in which an identifier such as an Internet Protocol IP address associated with a particular user equipment device is mapped to an identifier such as a username used by an enterprise network to identify a particular user. Examples of enterprise services offerings that may be provided to the user equipment device by one or more enterprise networks include hosted communications telepresence or enterprise voice over LTE services.

User equipment device may include any mobile client device such as a mobile telephone a smartphone or a tablet. In a particular embodiment user equipment device may include client device as previously discussed herein. In one or more embodiments base station includes a base station of a mobile network configured to communicate with user equipment device via a wireless signal. Gateway node is configured to function as a gateway between the mobile network and server within a core network. PCRF is configured to manage policies associated with one or more subscribers associated with user equipment such as user equipment device . Utilization database is configured to maintain network load and capacity information regarding various locations within the mobile network. Enterprise application server is an application server located within an enterprise network configured to provide one or more enterprise applications to user equipment device .

In various embodiments MINE component is configured to enable signaling between components network elements and or devices of one or more enterprise networks and components network elements and or devices of one or mobile networks. A challenge when enabling over the top application provided by an enterprise network is that a user identifier used by the enterprise network often differs from a user identifier used by the mobile network. For example an enterprise network may use its own internal IP address to identify a particular user while the user is identified by a public IP address within the packet core network. In one or more embodiments MINE component receives a request from an enterprise network which includes a internal user identifier such as an internal IP address used by the enterprise network to identify a particular user and or user equipment. MINE component then performs a rewrite within the network service and subscriber abstraction layer to associate the internal user identifier with a public identifier such as a public IP address used to identify the user and or user equipment within the mobile network. Accordingly when a request is made by an application or service provided by the enterprise network to a network element or component outside of the enterprise network such as to a policy server a home subscriber server HSS or the network infrastructure that request may be made using the public identifier rather than the internal identifier.

In MINE component accesses a rules engine to correlate information regarding radio conditions the user service plan and or application requirements of the client application to determine the QoS parameters to be granted to user equipment device in response to the request for additional QoS and or bandwidth. In MINE component sends a grant and user profile to user equipment device for the session. The grant indicates QoS parameters for the session. In one or more embodiments the QoS parameters indicated by the grant may include a QCI value bandwidth parameters and or a radio priority to be used during the session.

In MINE component translates the enterprise network user identifier into a mobile network user identifier used by the mobile network to identify the user. In MINE component sends a user equipment UE plan query to PCRF to determine whether a user service plan and or policy associated with the user of user equipment device allows for higher QoS and or bandwidth to be allocated to user equipment device . The UE plan query includes the mobile network user identifier which is used by the PCRF to match a user profile or plan associated with the user. In MINE component receives a UE plan response message including quality of service information indicated by a plan and or policy associated with the user. In a particular embodiment the UE plan response message includes quality of service information having an indication regarding whether a plan and or policy associated with the user allows for higher QoS and or bandwidth to be allocated to user equipment device . In MINE component sends a utilization database query to utilization database to inquire whether the current location of user equipment device and or a location to which user equipment device is moving can handle additional load in the mobile network and or what radio types should be used. In MINE component receives a utilization database response message from utilization database indicating whether a current location and or an anticipated location of user equipment device can handle additional load in the mobile network and or radio types should be used.

In MINE component accesses a rules engine to correlate information regarding radio conditions the user service plan and or application requirements of the client application to determine the QoS parameters to be granted to user equipment device in response to the request for additional QoS and or bandwidth. In MINE component sends a grant and user profile to application server for the session. The grant indicates QoS parameters for the session. In one or more embodiments the QoS parameters indicated by the grant may include a QCI value bandwidth parameters and or a radio priority to be used during the session. In application server sends a session parameters response message to user equipment device indicating QoS parameters to be used for the session.

Aggregation services router is further in communication with a content provider cloud . Content provider cloud is in further communication with provider systems which may include a subscriber management module and a billing module . Content provider cloud may be in further communication with content provider s . In one embodiment the content provider cloud may be a hosted enterprise service such as hosted collaboration and the content provider may be an enterprise telephony system.

Media applications such as video applications typically not only need a high bandwidth connection but also a stable connection so that they can perform bit rate adaptation to match the available capacity to deliver the best possible experience to the user. Mobile environments are incredibly fickle when it comes to network performance. As the mobile user moves in the spatial environment the effective network capacity available to the user can change rapidly. Additionally even if the user stays still the environment may change do still provide a non stable network capacity connection.

Various embodiments described herein provide for the capability for the mobile network to interact with a mobile client to enable the mobile network to receive continuous feedback on the state of traffic flows that are sent to the client on a per application and or per flow basis to enable the mobile network to map users devices and location to one or more quality of delivery metrics. Using this ability of the mobile network to interact with an end client and to determine the prevailing network service conditions the mobile network may exploit this information to dynamically adapt the service delivered to maximize the experience of all users and devices in accordance with the network policy and the prevailing mobile network conditions.

In some embodiments the mobile network system may provide feedback to the mobile client to provide predictive suggestions to specific users of video or other applications both wired and wireless such that the applications themselves may adapt to better match the changing network conditions. These predictions may include an impending decrease in capacity in which MINE component may advertise the impending describes to the endpoints so that the application can tune preemptively to the correct bitrate based on available mechanisms without actually incurring loss an increase in capacity in which MINE component may realize that the bit rate used by the application is below the available capacity perhaps due to movement of the environment change in service plan etc. and MINE component may inform the application of the increased available capacity so that the application may increase its encoding bitrate to deliver higher quality video change in loss properties in which MINE component is aware of the lossiness of particular regions and environments and by conveying this information to a video application the video application is able to make better decisions on how much forward error correction FEC should be applied to the media stream and for an adaptation in process MINE component may inform the client that the network is attempting to restore an acceptable level of service and that the client should refrain from enacting any client adaptation until requested to do so by the mobile network client.

In one or more embodiments MSI SDK is a software development kit SDK that exposes a series of API s to enable co resident applications to better leverage network services to improve performance and increase serviceability. The MSI is associated with first UE device that is configured to integrate enterprise applications and or services such as applications and or services provided by one or more content providers with network service subscriber abstraction layer . MSI application enables network service subscriber abstraction layer to become aware of and monitor the service or application. In one or more embodiments network service subscriber abstraction layer monitors the performance of a particular application and may make determinations using monitored data received from MSI application and other information received from other network elements and components regarding whether adjustments should be made to change the quality of the experience provided by the application and or service based on either default or configured performance thresholds. In a particular embodiment network service subscriber abstraction layer may change a bandwidth and or QCI value allocated to the application or service and or redirect the UE to move to a different radio or WiFi network to enable a user or subscriber to obtain a better experience from the application and or service.

In various embodiments MSI SDK is configured to make it easier for applications to integrate with MINE component . This integration allows applications to become network aware such that applications are aware of what happens in the network and that the network itself is aware of how the application is performing. Accordingly MINE component allows more intelligent decisions to be made within the network to better allocate resources to meet user expectations. In one or more embodiments MSI SDK includes a service discovery mechanism to allow client devices such as first UE device to discover MINE component and a registration mechanism to register first UE device with MINE component . During registration MSI application may pass metadata that describes the UE the application and its associated flows including a mobile network identifier associated with first UE device to MINE component . MINE component may then map the mobile network identifier to a user identifier such as a username used by provider systems and register first UE device with MINE component . Upon registration MINE component becomes aware of applications running on first UE device . In one or more embodiments MSI SDK may pass supplemental metadata to MINE component such as identifying a particular data flow as either teleconferencing video teleconferencing audio or teleconferencing data.

Upon knowing the identity of the user MINE component may access provider systems to determine whether the user has a contract and or policy that guarantees a particular quality experience for the user as opposed to a user who does not have such a contract and or policy. In one or more embodiments MSI SDK is configured to calculate performance metrics or statistics on behalf of an application or service. In other embodiments if an application or service calculates its own performance metrics or statistics the application or service may pass the performance metrics or statics to MINE component via the MSI SDK s common management interface.

Upon registration by MSI application with MINE component MINE component may connect to MSI application and indicate to MSI SDK that it is interested in receiving particular notifications including performance measurements obtained by MSI SDK for an application or service such as packet loss jitter or delay from MSI SDK . MINE component may be further configured to set one or more thresholds related to the performance monitoring data and if one or more of those thresholds are exceeded MINE component may take that information as well as other information from the network to make intelligent decisions to determine whether the user is receiving an acceptable experience in a current class of which the user is a member. In a particular embodiment exceeding a threshold is indicative of the user experiencing a decreased quality of experience. For example if the user has been guaranteed a particular quality of service and MINE component determine that the user is not currently experiencing the particular quality of service MINE component may be configured to change the QCI value for the user s bearer channel and place the user in a higher priority queue to rectify the problems the user is currently experiencing. Alternatively the MINE component may also decide to direct the UE device to move to a different radio or WiFi network based upon the current performance feedback and notifications. In various embodiments MSI SDK may send performance statistics to MINE component periodically or upon request from MINE component .

Accordingly various embodiments provide for a dynamic performance feedback for user equipment applications and services so that MINE component may make intelligent performance management decisions as well as intelligent cost management decisions within the network.

In MINE component sends a notification subscription to MSI SDK . The notification subscription indicates to MSI SDK one or more performance monitoring notifications that MINE component wishes to subscribe in order to receive the performance monitoring notifications from MSI SDK . The performance monitoring notifications include one or more performance metrics or thresholds related to an application or service that is to be provided from the enterprise network such as content provider s to first UE device . In a media content session is established between content provider s and first UE device in which media content such as audio and or video content is provided by content provider s to first UE device

In MSI SDK sends a performance monitoring notification to MINE component . The performance monitoring notification includes performance data obtained or calculated by MSI SDK indicating a quality of delivery of the media content to first UE device by the media content session. In a particular embodiment MSI application may calculate Transmission Control Protocol TCP performance metrics Real time Transport Protocol RTP performance metrics and or wireless transmission performance metrics associated with the media content session such as packet loss or packet delay. MSI SDK may further send a summary of the calculated performance metrics summary to MINE component in the performance monitoring notification. In various embodiments MSI application may send a performance monitoring notification to MINE component on a periodic basis such as every fifteen seconds during the duration of the media content session or based upon a monitoring threshold being crossed.

In MINE component determines if the performance monitoring data for the session has exceeded a performance quality threshold for the particular user. In in response to determining that the performance quality threshold has been exceeded for the session MINE component determines if quality is to be improved for the user based upon the user profile and available resources within the network. In various embodiments MINE component may evaluate information obtained from other network elements and or components such as signaling diagnostics in addition to the received performance monitoring data in order to determine whether the quality is to be improved for the user. For example MINE component may obtain information from analytics module to determine current and or historical information regarding network traffic in order to determine whether quality is to be increased for first UE device . In other embodiments MINE component may poll other user equipment from the same cell zone to evaluate the type of device application user plan and usage to determine whether quality is to be increased for first UE device . In still other embodiments MINE component may receive cell site congestion notifications including cell site congestion information from one or more network elements and correlate the cell congestion information with the performance monitoring data received from MSI SDK to determine whether quality is to be increased for first UE device

In MINE component applies a policy to the media content session for an improved user experience by increasing one or more quality parameters associated with the media content session. In a particular embodiment MINE component may reallocate one or more network resources in the network in order to increase the user experience provided to first UE device . In one or more embodiments MINE component may decrease the quality of experience provided to second UE device in order to increase the user experience provided to first UE device . For example a policy associated with a user of second UE device may not guarantee a high quality of experience to the user of second UE device as compared to the policy associated with the user of first UE device . In MINE component sends a message to GW to reduce a QoS value associated with second UE device . In a particular embodiment MINE component changes a QCI value associated with a bearer channel of second UE device in order to reduce a QoS for second UE device . In MINE component sends a message to GW to increase a QoS value associated with first UE device . In a particular embodiment MINE component changes a QCI value associated with a bearer channel of first UE device associated with the media content session in order to reduce a QoS for first UE device

In still another embodiment first UE device second UE device and third UE device each include MSI SDK and are configured to include adaptive bit rate ABR clients having the capability of varying the bit rate of transmitted and received data. In such embodiments first UE device second UE device and third UE device may each send a registration request including metadata indicating that first UE device second UE device and third UE device support ABR capability. First UE device second UE device and third UE device may then periodically send performance monitoring data to MINE component including measured performance monitoring data associated with one or more applications or services provided to first UE device second UE device and third UE device respectively. First UE device second UE device and third UE device may each further send adaption data to MINE component indicating one or more ABR adaption capabilities of first UE device second UE device and third UE device such as the ability to change between using different codecs adaptation techniques or error correction concealment procedures during ABR adaptation.

If MINE component determines that one or more performance quality thresholds has been exceed based upon the received performance monitoring data and or information received from other network elements MINE component may send a metadata adaptation message to a respective MSI application of first UE device second UE device or third UE device indicating that the bit rate associated with a particular session should be adjusted. For example MINE component may instruct a first UE device to drop its ABR rate from 500 kbps to 350 kps in response to receiving monitoring data indicating that a particular performance threshold has been exceeded. In one or more embodiments if the particular user is a high value user as determined by policy information MINE component may instruct the ABR client to not perform adaptation of the bitrate unless performance does not improve after a predetermined period of time. Conversely in at least one embodiment if the particular user is a low value user as determined by policy information MINE component may instruct the ABR client to start adaptation of the bitrate. In still other embodiments MSI SDK may send periodic status notifications to MINE component including adaption attributes indicating the current adaptation state adaption on off and or an adaption type codec change error correction concealment . In still other embodiments MINE component may encode on or more packets frames to indicate to GW which packets frames may or may not be discarded. For example in a particular embodiment MINE component may indicate that a packet containing a reference frame should not be dropped while allowing other packets not containing a reference frame to be dropped by GW .

In some embodiments MINE component may utilize other network information such as RAN analytics in addition to performance metrics generated by MSI SDK to determine with an adaption event should be triggered.

In MINE component translates the first user identifier to a second user identifier in which the second user identifier is used to identify the user within the second network. In MINE component sends a first query including the second user identifier to a second network element. In a particular embodiment the second network element is a billing system storing one or more user profiles and or user plans associated with users of one or more user devices within the mobile network. In a particular embodiment the billing system includes a policy and charging rules function PCRF . In MINE component receives a first response message including quality of service information indicated by a user policy associated with the second user identifier. In a particular embodiment MINE component may further translate the first response message with the second user identifier to a policy query with the first user identifier.

In MINE component determines one or more performance quality thresholds for the first communication session based upon the quality of service information. In the first communication session is established between the first network element and the first user device. In MINE component receives performance data from the first user device including at least one performance metric indicating a quality of delivery of content to the first user device by the first communication session. In a particular embodiment MINE component has previously subscribed to receive the performance data from the first user device. In one or more embodiments MINE component may be configured to receive performance data from the first user device on a periodic basis during the communication session.

In MINE component determines whether the at least one performance metric exceeds the performance quality threshold. If it is determined that the at least one metric has exceeded the performance quality threshold in MINE component determines whether the quality of delivery is to be improved for the user. If it is determined that the quality of delivery is to be improved for the user in MINE component adjusts a quality of service QoS value for the communication session. In a particular embodiment MINE component increases a first quality of service value for the first communication session if it is determined that the quality of delivery is to be improved for the user. In still another particular embodiment MINE component decreases a second quality of service value for a second session associated with a second user device if it is determined that the quality of delivery is to be improved for the user and the procedure ends. If it is determined in that the at least one performance quality threshold has not been exceed or if it is determined in that the quality of delivery is not to be improved for the user the procedure ends.

In one implementation server includes software to achieve or to foster the operations as outlined herein in this Specification. Note that in one example each of these elements can have an internal structure e.g. a processor a memory element etc. to facilitate some of the operations described herein. In other embodiments the operations may be executed externally to these elements or included in some other network element to achieve this intended functionality. Alternatively server may include this software or reciprocating software that can coordinate with other network elements in order to achieve the operations as outlined herein. In still other embodiments one or several devices may include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof.

Note that in certain example implementations the orchestration work flow coordination and translation functions outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances a memory element as shown in can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processor as shown in could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

In one example implementation server may include software in order to achieve the functions outlined herein. These activities can be facilitated by sub modules of network service subscriber abstraction and orchestration module where sub modules can be suitably combined in any appropriate manner which may be based on particular configuration and or provisioning needs . Server can include memory elements for storing information to be used in achieving the data abstraction activities as discussed herein. Additionally server may include a processor that can execute software or an algorithm to perform the operations as disclosed in this Specification. These devices may further keep information in any suitable memory element random access memory RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein e.g. database tables trees cache etc. should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the network elements can also include suitable interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that with the example provided above as well as numerous other examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two three or four network elements. However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of network elements. It should be appreciated that communication systems and and their teachings are readily scalable and can accommodate a large number of components as well as more complicated sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of communication systems and as potentially applied to a myriad of other architectures.

It is also important to note that the steps in the preceding flow diagrams illustrate only some of the possible signaling scenarios and patterns that may be executed by or within communication systems and . Some of these steps may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these steps may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition a number of these operations have been described as being executed concurrently with or in parallel to one or more additional operations. However the timing of these operations may be altered considerably. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is provided by communication systems and in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail with reference to particular arrangements and configurations these example configurations and arrangements may be changed significantly without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example although the present disclosure has been described with reference to particular communication exchanges involving certain endpoint components and certain protocols communication systems and may be applicable to other protocols and arrangements. Moreover the present disclosure is equally applicable to various technologies aside from mobile architectures as these have only been offered for purposes of discussion.

Additionally although communication systems and have been illustrated with reference to particular elements and operations that facilitate the communication process these elements and operations may be replaced by any suitable architecture or process that achieves the intended functionality of communication systems and .

