---

title: System and method for diversity coded orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM)
abstract: The present invention provides a Diversity Coding—Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (DC-OFDM) system and method that applies diversity coding to OFDM-based systems and provides improved probability of successful reception at the receiver and transparent self-healing and fault-tolerance. Diversity coding is well suited for OFDM-based systems because of its spatial diversity nature (parallel links). DC-OFDM provides the best performance when the probability of link error is high or when a link (sub-channel) fails. Also, by implementing diversity coding in OFDM-based systems, a reliable communication can be provided that is quite tolerant of link failures, since data and protection lines are transmitted via multiple sub-channels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020059&OS=09020059&RS=09020059
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09020059
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131205
---
This application claims prior to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 733 662 filed on Dec. 5 2012 entitled System And Method For Diversity Coded Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM which in herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under IIP 1217306 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM is a widely used technology in fourth generation wireless networks 4G 802.11a g n WLANs and other communication systems that achieve high transmission rates over dispersive channels by transmitting serial information through multiple parallel carriers. In OFDM the transmission bandwidth is divided into many narrow sub channels which are transmitted in parallel such that the fading experienced by each channel is flat.

Many applications require that information be communicated in a timely manner so reliability of these networks is of concern. Various techniques are known in the art for improving transmission reliability and speed. Network coding techniques for OFDM are known in the art wherein packets are combined and transmitted through different nodes or locations to improve the reliability of the channel. These network coding techniques may be employed at the symbol level or the packet level and may include network coding in the MAC media access control layer and network coding in the PHY physical layer. Additional techniques may include rate diverse network coding zero cost retransmission and CodePlay.

The prior art methods utilizing network coding are typically applied to two hop communication systems through a relay and to multicast systems where it has been proven that network coding provides throughput gain. However these network coding techniques for OFDM require rerouting of lost data or require a feedback channel from the transmitter to recover lost information.

Accordingly what is needed in the art is an OFDM based system having improved spectral efficiency excellent transmission rates improved throughput improved performance during multipath fading and the ability to easily retrieve lost information without the need for retransmission or feedback from the transmitter.

In view of the limitations of the prior art a novel idea employing diversity coding across OFDM subchannels is proposed to improve spectral efficiency transmission rate throughput and performance during multipath fading without requiring rerouting or retransmission of lost information.

In accordance with the present invention diversity coding is a feed forward spatial diversity technology that enables near instant self healing and fault tolerance in the presence of wireless link failures. In diversity coding the protection paths c carry information that is the combination of the uncoded data lines d .

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method for recovering lost data symbols in an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM system. The method includes generating one or more uncoded data symbols and generating one or more diversity coded data symbols the one or more diversity coded data symbols comprising a combination of the one or more uncoded data symbols. The method further includes transmitting by a transmitter each of the one or more uncoded data symbols on one of a plurality of data subcarriers of the OFDM system and transmitting by the transmitter each of the one or more diversity coded data symbols on one of a plurality of protection subcarriers of the OFDM system. The method further includes receiving by the receiver the one or more diversity coded data symbols and when one or more of the uncoded data symbols is lost during transmission recovering the one or more lost uncoded data symbols using the one or more diversity coded data symbols.

In an additional embodiment the present invention provides a system for recovering data in an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM system. The system include a transmitter configured for generating one or more uncoded data symbols for generating one or more diversity coded data symbols the one or more diversity coded data symbols comprising a combination of the one or more uncoded data symbols for transmitting each of the one or more uncoded data symbols on one of a plurality of data subcarriers of the OFDM system and for transmitting each of the one or more diversity coded data symbols on one of a plurality of protection subcarriers of the OFDM system. The system further includes a receiver configured for receiving the one or more diversity coded data symbols and for recovering the lost uncoded data symbols using the one or more diversity coded data symbols when one or more of the uncoded data symbols is lost during transmission.

The diversity coded OFDM system and method of the present invention increases the reliability of point to point OFDM wireless connections by transmitting data in a set of subcarriers and transmitting protection data redundant or coded information in a another subset of subcarriers. Diversity coded OFDM is based on the observation that in OFDM communications the information is transmitted through orthogonal frequencies parallel channels links and each subchannel can experience different channel effects. The diversity coded OFDM technique of the present invention for applying coding across OFDM carriers differs from the traditional coded OFDM where channel coding techniques such as convolutional codes Reed Solomon codes in combination with interleaving are applied to the serial data stream in the time domain prior to mapping into subcarrier channels.

With reference to and the present invention includes a system for recovering data in an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM system that comprises a transmitter configured for generating one or more uncoded data symbols for generating one or more diversity coded data symbols the one or more diversity coded data symbols comprising a combination of the one or more uncoded data symbols. The transmitter is further configured for transmitting each of the one or more uncoded data symbols on one of a plurality of data subcarriers of the OFDM system and for transmitting each of the one or more diversity coded data symbols on one of a plurality of protection subcarriers of the OFDM system. The system further includes a receiver configured for receiving the one or more diversity coded data symbols and for recovering the lost uncoded data symbols using the one or more diversity coded data symbols when one or more of the uncoded data symbols is lost during transmission.

In an additional embodiment the transmitter and the receiver may be integrated into a single transceiver that provides both transmission and reception of wireless signals.

The receiver includes a failure detector to detect one or more encoded data symbols lost during transmission.

The diversity coding system in accordance with the present invention uses a spatial parity check code for a point to point system with N data lines and 1 protection line . If any of the data lines fail e.g. d utilizing the protection line c the destination receiver can recover the information of the data line that was lost d by taking the mod 2 sum of all of the received signals. As such by using just one extra line the lost information in the failed link can be recovered instantaneously without rerouting or providing a feedback channel to the transmitter.

The diversity coding of the present invention can be extended to multiple line failures M for N Diversity Coding systems . A network is transparently self healed when any combination of N coded links survive among M diverse links. In the present invention an OFDM based system is enhanced with diversity coding by allowing some subcarriers to transport the data and other subcarriers a few to transport the protection information to be used to recover the data in the case of a link subcarrier failures.

An exemplary vehicular diversity coded OFDM communication system in accordance with the present invention is shown with reference to . Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments WAVE is a wireless scheme that provides vehicle to vehicle communication and vehicle to infrastructure communication and is primarily used in providing emergency safety measures for vehicles . In a particular embodiment diversity coded OFDM may be employed in a Vehicular Ad Hoc Network VANET to improve the throughput and the expected number of correctly received symbols. Applying diversity coding to OFDM based communications promises high reliability in vehicular and other communications while preserving high transmission rates. This is achieved by transmitting coded information across the OFDM carriers . That is most of the data carriers transport original uncoded information while the remaining few carriers transport coded protection information. The coded information is the result of the combination of the original information.

An exemplary medical device diversity coded OFDM communication system in accordance with the present invention is shown with reference to . In a Wireless Body Area Network WBAN channel model involves communicating information across the boundary of the body i.e. between in vivo and on body or other external devices . Naturally such communication poses significant difficulties. First for radio frequency RF communication the body is relatively lossy making the establishment of links with high signal to noise ratio SNR and therefore high data rates challenging. Second because the dielectric parameters of internal tissues depend on the operating frequency and a typical end to end propagation path consists of multiple components associated with many types of tissues it can be difficult to couple electromagnetic fields efficiently into or out of the body. There are key technical challenges to the efficient use of the in vivo RF spectrum for access to embedded medical devices especially for real time traffic such as video streaming applications which require high transmission data rates. In the embodiment shown in a camera module which may be embedded in an abdominal cavity provides real time video to a monitor utilizing an OFDM system employing diversity coding across a plurality of subcarriers as taught by the present invention. To provide a high data transmission rate while maintaining adequate reliability levels most of the data carriers transport original uncoded information while the remaining few carriers transport coded protection information. The coded information is the result of the combination of the original information.

With reference to a transmitter is accordance with present invention receives data from a data source . The serial to parallel processor of the transmitter provides the received serial data to a plurality of parallel data carriers. The data carriers d d up to d provide the uncoded data and the protection carrier c1 provides the diversity coded data. The diversity coded data is generated by a mod 2 sum module . The uncoded data and the diversity coded data are then processed through an Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform module IDFT to generate the time domain symbols . The time domain symbols are then processed by a parallel to serial processor to generate the wireless signal to be transmitted s t . If any of the carriers that transport data d d up to d is lost because of a fade or the performance of any carrier is poor the information from the lost carrier can be recovered from the received protection carriers cfor this simple example .

If there is no failure in the data lines data subcarriers the information transmitted through the protection subcarrier is discarded. However if there is a link failure in any of the data subcarriers a failure detection algorithm detects the failure and informs the receiver which data subcarrier should be omitted and the information of the data subcarrier with failure is recovered with the information provided by the protection subcarrier. That is if the information of the data subcarrier dis lost or corrupted it can be recovered using c.

As shown in a receiver receives the signal transmitted from the transmitter . During the transmission process some of the subchannels carrying the signals may have been negatively affected by noise in the channel. The transmitted data is received at the serial to parallel processor of the receiver serial data is converted to multiple parallel symbols. The parallel symbols are then processed by an Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform IDFT module to generate the frequency domain symbols. A failure detector is then used to detect if one or more of the carriers have been lost during the transmission. To detect which subchannels carriers are in error the failure detector can check the eye diagram of each subcarrier and discard the carriers that shows more dispersion in the eye diagram. Another technique that the receiver can employ to verify which carriers are in error is by using a line code by checking violations in the line code. If a failure is detected in one of the subcarriers the diversity coded symbol of the protection carrier can be used to perform a logical XOR operation to recover the lost symbols. The recovered data is then processed by a parallel to serial processor and subsequently transmitted to the data sink coupled to the receiver .

As shown in and Eq. 1 each link can carry as few as one bit to implement a 1 for N diversity coding system because with one bit a Galois Field can be calculated of up to two elements 0 1 GF 2 . In other words the number of protection links is limited by the number of bits per link. That is the larger the number of bits to be transmitted by each link the larger the number of protection links that can be implemented. This is because the number of protection links subcarriers is limited to the Galois Field GF 2 size q to calculate the information that is transmitted through the protection links.

Diversity coding which is a spatial feed forward error correction technique is well suited to work on OFDM based systems because the protection lines can be transmitted through some of the subcarriers. Since the number of protection subcarriers depends on the Galois Field size q q bits per subcarrier are first assigned in the serial to parallel conversion as shown in .

The number of bits to be transmitted per subcarrier is calculated based on the number of data and protection subcarriers N and M respectively and is given by 2 log 1 5 

The total number of data plus protection lines subcarriers should be at most equal to the FFT size because the number of subcarriers is limited to the FFT size 6 

The protection information that is transmitted through some of the OFDM subcarriers is calculated as 

In formulating diversity coding OFDM the Vandermonde matrix approach may be followed to create the coded symbols i.e. the protection information which are linearly independent of each other and each coded symbol c has the information of all the data symbols d . In an additional embodiment Hamming codes could also have been followed or other codes where each coded symbol parity bits has the information of only some data bits in different combinations. However in this case the receiver would need additional processing.

Since the information transmitted through the data lines subcarriers is uncoded the coding coefficients of the data lines form an identity matrix of size n I as shown below 

where j 1 2 . . . N. The coefficients of the protection lines are formed by the coefficients matrix as shown below 

The assignment of the data and protection lines to each subcarrier is predefined to minimize the computational complexity in both transmitter and receiver. The assignment can be sequential where the data lines 1 2 . . . Ncan be assigned to the N first subcarriers and the protection lines 1 2 . . . Mcan be assigned to the next M subcarriers N 1 N 2 . . . N M or it can be interleaved where for example the first data line is assigned to the first subcarrier the first protection line is assigned to the second subcarrier the second data line is assigned to the third subcarrier and so on. This will depend on the diversity code DC rate. We define the DC code rate as the ratio of the number of data lines subcarriers to the number of data plus protection lines subcarriers ratio code rate 10 

At the receiver the coefficients of the data and protection lines form the following matrix which depends on the information that was correctly received at the destination 

The receiver by using the matrix coefficients a N M by N matrix can find the transmitted data by recovering the lost information in the data lines through the protection lines. That is the receiver uses only N rows out of the N M rows from the matrix coefficients to recover the information of the data lines 12 

The receiver preferably uses as many indexes of the data lines as possible to faster decode the information that is lost during transmission. In other words the receiver uses as many elements of the identity matrix Eq. 8 as the implementation will allow. If no data line is lost during transmission no decoding process is needed at the receiver and the information transmitted through the protection lines is discarded. The vector formed by the data lines x is 

and bis the vector formed by the correctly received information at the destination with the same indexes as the matrix.

The receiver can recover the lost information transmitted through the data lines by performing Gaussian elimination of the coefficients protection lines . This is a fast process because some of the row elements of the coefficients matrix are already in the row canonical form.

The performance of the diversity coded OFDM of the present invention is measured by the probability of successful reception at the destination. The effect of different parameters such as number of data links number of coded protection links modulation technique and DC code rate to optimize the communication s probability of successful reception of an OFDM at the receiver have been analyzed. Moreover the diversity coded OFDM as compared to existing OFDM based systems such as IEEE 802.11p that do not use coding in the spatial domain across sub channels has been analyzed. The results of these analyses are illustrated in . .

With reference to the performance of a 1 for N diversity coded OFDM system is compared to extant OFDM systems that do not use diversity coding. shows the probability of successfully receiving at the destination the information as a function of the number of data links subcarriers for different symbol error rates per subcarrier. As shown in by only adding one subcarrier to transmit coded information that is the combination of the information transmitted through the data links a significant performance improvement probability of correctly receiving the information can be achieved as the number of data links increases. The performance improvement is more pronounced for high symbol error rates. As noted above diversity coding provides excellent performance when a subchannel is not capable of reliable communications.

The performance of a 1 for N diversity coded OFDM system for OFDM QPSK modulated in a multi path channel for various relative speeds between transmitter and receiver vehicles expressed as the maximum Doppler shift f and the subcarrier spacing f ratio is shown in . As can be seen diversity coded OFDM provides performance improvement for communications between stationary vehicles f 0 . By implementing 1 for N diversity coded OFDM it is possible to reduce the energy per bit by about 10 dB and achieve similar performance than with a system that does not use diversity coded OFDM. Moreover when the relative speed between transmitter and receiver vehicles is high the symbol error rate per subcarrier is also high. Therefore by adding an extra subcarrier to transmit protection data the performance of the communication can be significantly increased. Note that when the relative speed is high it is not possible to significantly reduce the symbol error rate by increasing the energy per bit E N .

The present invention provides a Diversity Coding Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing DC OFDM scheme that applies diversity coding to OFDM based systems and provides improved probability of successful reception at the receiver and transparent self healing and fault tolerance. Diversity coding is well suited for OFDM based systems because of its spatial diversity nature parallel links . DC OFDM provides the best performance when the probability of link error is high or when a link sub channel fails. Also by implementing diversity coding in OFDM based systems a reliable communication can be provided that is quite tolerant of link failures since data and protection lines are transmitted via multiple sub channels. Moreover only adding one protection line subcarrier DC OFDM provides significant performance improvement. Note that DC OFDM is also well suited for mobile communications because this type of communications has high symbol error probability. Diversity coded OFDM enables increased probability of successful reception at the receiver thus increasing the reliability of the communication.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween.

