---

title: Method and apparatus for processing digital service signal
abstract: A digital service signal apparatus is disclosed. The digital service signal apparatus includes a receiving module receiving signaling information having channel information for an application from the digital service signal, a generating module generating a request using the channel information, a sending module sending the generated request, a downloading module downloading the application, an executing module configured to execute the API related to the application and a registering module configured to register the specific key set according to the mode number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319743&OS=09319743&RS=09319743
owner: LG ELECTRONICS INC.
number: 09319743
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20131127
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 730 062 filed on Nov. 27 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for processing a digital service signal and more particularly to a method and apparatus for processing a digital service signal for controlling an application associated with a current broadcast program in a hybrid digital television TV system that transmits receives terrestrial broadcast data via a broadcast network and the Internet.

A hybrid digital television TV system is a TV system that transmits receives enhancement data via an Internet protocol IP network based on metadata associated with a terrestrial broadcast program so as to provide an improved TV viewing experience to a user.

A transmitter of the hybrid digital TV system may transmit broadcast data and signaling information thereof in real time via a broadcast network. A receiver of the hybrid digital TV system may receive broadcast data and signaling information thereof in real time via a broadcast network. In addition the receiver of the hybrid digital TV system may receive enhancement data associated with broadcast data via an IP network using the received signaling information.

Thus in order to acquire an application associated with broadcast data the receiver of the hybrid TV system needs to receive signaling information required to acquire the corresponding application.

As described above a hybrid digital television TV system may transmit receive signaling information required to acquire an application via a broadcast network. When the signaling information required to acquire the application is not transmitted received through the broadcast network a receiver of a hybrid TV system may acquire the signaling information required to acquire an associated application from a domain name system DNS server and receive the application using the acquired signaling information.

The DNS is a term that collectively indicates a system and a server thereof which convert a domain indicated by characters such that a user can easily memorize the domain on a TCP IP network that is an Internet communication standard into numbers to be processed by a computer. A domain name is an Internet address but requires an Internet address indicated by numbers in order to actually search for a specific computer on the Internet.

All host servers managed by websites have unique Internet protocol IP addresses and thus the domain name is converted into an Internet protocol IP address that can be recognized by a host server through the DNS server. Thus the DNS server stores domain information and IP information of each website in a database. In this case when the DNS server receives a signal for access to a corresponding website the DNS server interprets the signal and connects the signal to a host server of a website having the corresponding IP.

Also in a hybrid digital TV system a DNS server may store and manage signaling information required to acquire an application associated with a broadcast program per channel of a current broadcast program in a database and transmit the signaling information required to acquire the application to a receiver of the hybrid TV system according to a request signal of the receiver of the hybrid TV system.

In this case problems may arise in that input information received from an input device cannot be effectively processed by an application.

Additional advantages objects and features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned from practice of the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

To achieve these objects and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the invention as embodied and broadly described herein a method and apparatus for processing a digital service signal includes receiving signaling information for an application from the digital service signal wherein the signaling information includes a service signaling table having channel information generating a request using the channel information sending the generated request receiving location information of the application related to the digital service signal according to the sent request downloading the application using the received location information wherein the application is associated with an API Application Programming Interface to set the mode information of the application wherein the mode information includes a mode number indicating a status of the application and specific key set to control the application wherein the specific key set correspond to the mode number executing the API to set the mode information and registering the specific key set according to the mode number.

The digital service signal processing method according to an embodiment of the present invention further includes receiving signaling information for an application from the digital service signal wherein the signaling information includes a service signaling table having channel information generating a request using the channel information sending the generated request receiving location information of the application related to the digital service signal according to the sent request downloading the application using the received location information wherein the application is associated with an API Application Programming Interface to set an active area information for indicating an active area of the application wherein the active area of the application is set to receive pointer information wherein the active area information includes coordinate information of the active area width information of the active area and height information of the active area executing the API and registering the active area by the executed API.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In this case the configuration and operation of the present invention will be understood by the embodiments of the present invention described with reference to the accompanying drawings and the main configuration and operation of the present invention are not limited by the embodiments of the present invention.

Most of the terms used herein are general terms that widely used in the technical art to which the present invention pertains. However some of the terms used herein may be created reflecting intentions of technicians in the art precedents or new technologies. Also some of the terms used herein may be arbitrarily chosen by the present applicant. In this case these terms are defined in detail below. Accordingly the specific terms used herein should be understood based on the unique meanings thereof and the whole context of the present invention.

The hybrid TV system illustrated in transmits receives broadcast data and enhancement data via a terrestrial broadcast network and the Internet. As illustrated in the hybrid TV system may include a broadcaster a content server and a DTV receiver . The content server according to the present embodiment may also be called an application server according to designer s intention. Hereinafter the hybrid TV system will be described in terms of an operation of each block.

The broadcaster refers to a broadcast station for transmitting a broadcast program and may transmit A V data and signaling information of a real time broadcast service to the DTV receiver via a broadcast network. The signaling information may include a service signaling table including channel information associated with the A V data of the real time broadcast service signaling information for acquiring an application etc. The service signaling table according to the present embodiment may include a virtual channel table VCT an event information table EIT etc. In addition according to the present invention the signaling information for acquiring an application is referred to as application signaling information and may be changed according to designer s intention.

The DTV receiver may request the content server to transmit an application via the Internet using the application signaling information received via the broadcast network.

In addition the content server may transmit enhancement data of a current broadcast service such as an application to the DTV receiver via the Internet.

Although the hybrid TV system illustrated in is the same as the hybrid TV system described with reference to illustrates a case in which the signaling information for acquiring an application is not transmitted received via a broadcast network.

The hybrid TV system illustrated in is the same as the hybrid TV system described with reference to except that the hybrid TV system illustrated in includes a DNS server . Hereinafter the hybrid TV system will be described in terms of an operation of each block.

A broadcaster may transmit A V data and signaling information of a real time broadcast service to a DTV receiver via a broadcast network. In this case the signaling information may include a service signaling table including channel information associated with the A V data of the real time broadcast service but does not include application signaling information.

Thus the DTV receiver may not receive the application signaling information via the broadcast network. In this case the DTV receiver may generate a request sentence or a request signal using the signaling information for example channel information received via the broadcast network and may transmit a request signal to the DNS server to request the application signaling information. The application signaling information may include application URL information.

As described above the DNS server may store and manage application signaling information associated with a broadcast program per channel of a current broadcast program in a database. In addition the DNS server may transmit the application signaling information to the DTV receiver according to the request signal of the DTV receiver . The application signaling information stored and managed by the database of the DNS server will be described below in detail.

Then the DTV receiver may request a content server or application server to transmit an application via the Internet using the application signaling information received from the DNS server . In addition the content server may transmit enhancement data of a current broadcast service such as application to the DTV receiver via the Internet.

However the hybrid TV system described with reference to may receive the application signaling information via the broadcast network or the Internet and acquire an application using the application signaling information but may not control a life cycle of the corresponding application.

For example a user who watches and listens to a specific program on one channel terminates an application associated with the specific program using a remote controller and so on which will now be described.

The application associated with the specific program is provided in the form of hypertext markup language HTML executed on a web browser and thus the web browser may also be terminated when the user terminates the application. However when a broadcast program is changed in the same channel if a DTV receiver does not acquire application information associated with the changed broadcast program an application associated with the changed broadcast program cannot be provided to the user.

Thus the present invention proposes a method and apparatus for controlling a lifecycle of an application associated with the changed broadcast program when the hybrid TV system changes the broadcast program.

In detail the present invention proposes operations for executing an application according to a case in which a DTV receiver receives change information of a broadcast program from a DNS server and a case in which the DTV receiver receives the change information from a broadcaster in order to control a lifecycle of an application associated with the broadcast program.

Hereinafter the application execution operation will be described in terms of the case in which the DTV receiver receives the change information of the broadcast program from the DNS server.

As described above the DNS server and DTV receiver of the hybrid TV system according to the present embodiment may control a lifecycle of a corresponding application according to change information of a broadcast program. In detail the DNS server according to the present embodiment may manage application signaling information associated with a broadcast program and a current channel and may transmit associated information to the DTV receiver when the broadcast program is changed. In addition the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may acquire the change information of channel or broadcast program from the DNS server receive associated application signaling information and acquire and execute an application associated with the changed broadcast program.

The DNS server according to the present embodiment may include an application database that maintains and manages the application signaling information associated with a broadcast program per broadcast channel based on broadcast program time as illustrated in .

The application database of the DNS server illustrated in may contain application signaling including a channel number of a broadcast program information of start time and end time of the corresponding broadcast program title information of the broadcast program associated application URL information etc. The application signaling information may be changed in various ways according to designer s intention.

Thus the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may periodically request the application signaling information based on broadcast channel information current time information etc. The DNS server according to the present embodiment may extract the application signaling information including the broadcast program information and application URL information from the application database of and transmit the application signaling information to the DTV receiver according to the request of the DTV receiver. In addition the DNS server according to the present embodiment may transmit changed application signaling information to the DTV receiver over time when the broadcast program is changed or the application signaling information is changed. The changed application signaling information may include the changed broadcast program information. Thus the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may check whether the broadcast program is changed using the application signaling information acquired from the DNS serer and may control the lifecycle of an application by terminating execution of currently executed application or executing a new application according to change in the broadcast program.

In detail is a flowchart illustrating an operation for execution of an application using application signaling information that is received after the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment receives application signaling information from the DNS server.

As described above the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive application signaling information S . As described with reference to the DNS server according to the present embodiment may include an application database that maintains and manages application signaling information associated with a broadcast program per broadcast channel based on time and so on. In addition the DTV receiver may periodically request application signaling information to the DNS server and receive the application signaling information from the DNS server based on broadcast channel information current time information etc. In addition the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may download the corresponding application using the received application signaling information.

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether an application associated with the received application signaling information is equal to a pre stored or currently executed application using the received application signaling information S . Thus the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may check whether the application associated with the received application signaling information is pre stored.

As the determination result when the application associated with the received application signaling information is equal to the pre stored or currently executed application the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate an operation for execution of the application using the received application signaling information. In this case the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may or may not execute the stored application and maintain an execution state of the application that is being executed.

As the determination result when the application associated with the received application signaling information is not equal to the pre stored or currently executed application the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may check whether an application associated with the received application signaling information is valid for a current channel using the received application signaling information S . That is the DTV receiver may check whether the application associated with the received application signaling information is an application associated with a broadcast program of the current channel.

As the determination result when the application associated with the received application signaling information is not valid for the current channel the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate an operation for execution of the application using the received application signaling information. In this case the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may or may not execute the stored application and maintain an execution state of the application that is being executed.

As the determination result when the application associated with the received application signaling information is valid for the current channel the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether an application is currently being executed S .

As the determination result when an application is currently being executed the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may stop executing the corresponding application S .

As the determination result when there is no currently executed application the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may display an application indicator for execution of an application on a display unit S .

In addition the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may also display the application indicator when execution of the currently executed application is stopped S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether a user input signal for execution of the aforementioned application indicator is input by the user S . The application indicator according to the present embodiment may indicate that an associated application is ready to be executed to allow entry using a red button of a remote controller to the user. The application indicator according to the present embodiment may be displayed together with content of a currently displayed broadcast program and the shape display position area and so on of the application indicator may be changed in various ways according to designer s intention. The user input signal according to the present embodiment may be input to the DTV receiver using the red button of the remote controller by the user.

As the determination result when the user input signal is not input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate display of the application indicator S .

As the determination result when the user input signal is input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may download an application from an application server and execute the downloaded application S . The application may be downloaded immediately after the application signaling information is received as described above or after the user input signal is input which is performed according to designer s intention.

In detail illustrates the operation of the hybrid TV system according to the present embodiment in terms of operations of a DTV receiver a DNS server and an application server included in the hybrid TV system described with reference to .

Hereinafter the operation of the hybrid TV system will be described in terms of each component block.

As illustrated in the DTV receiver may acquire channel information time information of a current broadcast program and so on from signaling information received from a broadcaster. The signaling information received from the broadcaster may include a service signaling table including a VCT and an EIT. The DTV receiver may acquire channel information time information of a current broadcast program and so on from the service signaling table.

Then the DTV receiver may generate an HTTP request sentence using the channel information the current broadcast program and so on. The HTTP request sentence may be formed by combining a parent domain name specific media major channel number minor channel number and so on such as http www.ohtv.org ch 9 1 time 2012 11 10 13 10 . . . which may be changed according to designer s intention.

Then the DTV receiver may transmit a request signal for transmitting the HTTP request to the DNS server . As described above the DNS server may transmit application signaling information according to the request signal received from the DTV receiver . As illustrated in the application signaling information may include application URL information and so on.

Then the DTV receiver may request an application to the application server using the application URL information and so on included in the received application signaling information. Then the application server may transmit the corresponding application to the DTV receiver . The DTV receiver may execute the received application.

The DNS server may manage and maintain the application signaling information as described with reference to . In addition the DNS server may transmit changed application signaling information to the DTV receiver over time when the broadcast program is changed or the application signaling information is changed. The changed application signaling information may include changed broadcast program information or application URL information according thereto.

Thus the DTV receiver may terminate execution of an application being executed using the application signaling information received from the DNS server and execute a new application.

As illustrated in when the application being executed is simultaneously terminated with a program the DTV receiver may re acquire channel information current time information and so on from the signaling information received from the broadcaster generate a request sentence using the acquired channel information the current time information and so on transmit the request sentence to the DNS server receive application signaling information request an application to the application server using the received signaling information receive the application from the application server and execute the received application.

That is as illustrated in the DTV receiver may repeatedly perform the aforementioned operations according to whether execution of an application is terminated or application signaling information is changed.

As described above the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may periodically request a current channel and application signaling information associated with a broadcast program to a DNS server. illustrates the operation of the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment which is repeated every period. The operation of the DTV receiver of is similar to the operation of the DTV receiver described with reference to and thus operations that are identical in will be described briefly.

As described with reference to the DTV receiver may acquire channel information current time information and so on from signaling information received from a broadcaster S . The signaling information received from the broadcaster may include a service signaling table such as a VCT.

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive application signaling information from the DNS server S . As described above the DTV receiver may generate a request sentence using the signaling information received from the broadcaster and transmit a request signal to the DNS server. The DNS server may transmit application signaling information to the DTV receiver according to the received request signal.

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether application associated with the received application signaling information is equal to pre stored or currently executed application using the received application signaling information S . Thus the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may check whether the application associated with the received application signaling information is pre stored.

As the determination result when the application associated with the received application signaling information is equal to the pre stored or currently executed application the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate an operation for execution of the application using the received application signaling information. In this case the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may or may not execute the stored application and maintain an execution state of the application that is being executed.

As the determination result when the application associated with the received application signaling information is not equal to the pre stored or currently executed application the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may check whether application associated with the received application signaling information is valid for a current channel using the received application signaling information S . That is the DTV receiver may check whether the application associated with the received application signaling information is an application associated with a broadcast program of the current channel.

As the determination result when the application associated with the received application signaling information is not valid for the current channel the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate an operation for execution of an application using the received application signaling information. In this case the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may or may not execute the stored application and maintain an execution state of the application that is being executed.

As the determination result when the application associated with the received application signaling information is valid for the current channel the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether an application is executed application S .

As the determination result when an application is currently being executed the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may stop executing the corresponding application S .

As the determination result when there is no currently executed application the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may display an application indicator for execution of an application on a display unit S .

In addition the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may also display the application indicator when execution of the currently executed application is stopped S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether a user input signal for execution of the aforementioned application indicator is input by the user S .

As the determination result when the user input signal is not input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate display of the application indicator S .

As the determination result when the user input signal is input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may download an application from an application server and execute the downloaded application S . The application may be downloaded immediately after the application signaling information is received as described above or after the user input signal is input which is performed according to designer s intention.

Hereinafter the operation of the DTV receiver will be described in terms of an operation of acquiring change information of a broadcast program from PSIP information received from a broadcaster to control an application.

The DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may extract program information about a broadcast program of a current channel using information of the PSIP table and control a lifecycle of an application associated with the corresponding broadcast program using the extracted program information.

As illustrated in a master guide table MGT includes information about a PSIP stable. Thus the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive an MGT and acquire PSIP table information in the MGT. Then the DTV receiver may acquire a virtual channel table VCT including information about a channel transmitted through a transport stream and an event information table EIT including detailed information of an event over time of a specific channel.

The DTV receiver may acquire and infer event information of currently and later broadcasted program of a currently watched broadcasted channel using the acquired table information. In detail as illustrated in the DTV receiver may acquire a channel number and source id information indicating a channel provider corresponding to each channel from the VCT . Then the DTV receiver may acquire corresponding EIT using the source id information. In addition the DTV receiver may generate an electronic program guide EPG using the acquired information the program information and so on and provide the EPG to a user.

As described above when the DTV receiver enters a specific channel the DTV receiver may acquire information about a current channel from the VCT and so on and request application signaling information about the corresponding channel to the DNS server using the acquired information. In addition the DTV receiver may extract information about start and end time of an event of a specific channel that is a specific broadcast program using information included in the EIT and thus may determine whether a broadcast program is changed over time in the corresponding channel. For example when a user continuously watches the same channel the DTV receiver may terminate execution of an application associated with a specific broadcast program at a point of time when the specific broadcast program is terminated.

In addition when a user randomly terminates execution of an application being executed using a remote controller and so on the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may not execute the corresponding application even if the DTV receiver acquires signaling information about the application execution of which is terminated by the user while a broadcast program associated with the terminated application is executed. However when the corresponding program is terminated and a new broadcast program is started the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may request application signaling information associated with the new broadcast program to a DNS server receive application signaling information associated with the new broadcast program and execute the corresponding application.

In detail is a flowchart illustrating the operation of the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment for acquiring application signaling information associated with a new broadcast program and executing application when a new broadcast program is started in one channel. The operation of the DTV receiver of is similar to the operation of the DTV receiver described with reference to and thus will be described briefly.

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether an application is currently being executed S .

As the determination result when an application is currently being executed the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may stop executing the corresponding application S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may acquire channel information current time information and so on from signaling information received from a broadcaster S . The signaling information received from the broadcaster may include a service signaling table such as a VCT.

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive application signaling information from the DNS server S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether there is an application associated with a current broadcast program using the application signaling information S .

As the determination result when there is no application associated with the current broadcast program the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate an operation for execution of an application.

As the determination result when there is an application associated with the current broadcast program the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may display an application indicator for execution of the application on a display unit S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether a user input signal for execution of the aforementioned application indicator is input by the user S .

As the determination result when the user input signal is not input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate display of the application indicator S .

As the determination result when the user input signal is input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may download an application from an application server and execute the downloaded application S .

In detail is a flowchart illustrating the operation of the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment for acquiring application signaling information associated with a new channel when the DTV receiver enters a new channel. The operation of the DTV receiver of is similar to the operation of the DTV receiver described with reference to and thus will be described briefly S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether an application is currently being executed S .

As the determination result when an application is currently being executed the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may stop executing the corresponding application S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may acquire channel information current time information and so on from signaling information received from a broadcaster S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive application signaling information from the DNS server S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether there is an application associated with a current broadcast program using the application signaling information S .

As the determination result when there is no currently executed application the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may change whether a program of a current channel is changed using EIT received from the broadcaster S .

As the determination result when there is an application associated with a current program the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may display an application indicator for execution of the application on a display unit S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether a user input signal for execution of the aforementioned application indicator is input by the user S .

As the determination result when the user input signal is not input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate display of the application indicator S . Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may check whether the program of the current channel is changed using the EIT received from the broadcaster S .

As the determination result when the user input signal is input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may download an application from an application server and execute the downloaded application S .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may check whether the broadcast program of the current channel is changed using the EIT received from the broadcaster S .

As the check result when the broadcast program is changed the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may re determine whether an application is currently being executed S . Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may re perform the operations from S.

As the determination result when the broadcast program is not changed the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether the current channel is changed S .

As the determination result when the channel is changed the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may check whether the program of the current channel is changed using the EIT received from the broadcaster S . Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may re perform the operations from S.

As the determination result when the channel is not changed the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate an operation for execution of an application.

As described with reference to the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may display the news weather broadcast program during broadcast time timeline . Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive application signaling information from a broadcaster or a DNS server and determine whether there is an application associated with the currently displayed news weather broadcast program using the application signaling information.

As described above when the application signaling information is received from the DNS server the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may generate a request sentence using current time information channel information and so on acquired from the signaling information received from the broadcaster transmit a request signal to a DNS server and receive application signaling information from the DNS server. A detailed description thereof is the same as in and thus is not given here.

In addition the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may display an application indicator for execution of an application on a display unit . As described above the application indicator according to the present embodiment may indicate that associated application is ready to be executed to allow entry using a red button of a remote controller to the user. In addition as illustrated in the application indicator according to the present embodiment may be displayed together with content of a currently displayed broadcast program and the shape display position and so on of the application indicator may be changed in various ways according to designer s intention. The user input signal according to the present embodiment may be transmitted to the DTV receiver using the red button of the remote controller of the user. Thus the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether the user input signal for execution of the aforementioned application indicator is input by the user.

Upon determining that the user input signal is input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may download an application from an application server and execute the downloaded application . In this case as illustrated in the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate display of the application indicator and simultaneously display application and content of the current news weather broadcast program on a display unit of the DTV receiver.

Upon determining that the user input signal is not input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment terminates display of the application indicator and does not execute the application until the current news weather program is terminated .

As described with reference to the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may display an application indicator for execution of an application during broadcast time timeline of the news weather broadcasts program .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may determine whether a user input signal for execution the aforementioned application indictor is input by a user as described with reference to .

Upon determining that the user input signal is input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may download application from an application server and execute the downloaded application . In this case as illustrated in the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate display of the application indicator and may simultaneously display application and content of the current news weather broadcast program on a display unit of the DTV receiver.

Upon determining that the user input signal is not input the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate display of the application indicator and may not execute the application until the current news weather broadcast program is terminated .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive changed application signaling information from the DNS server or detect whether the current program is changed using information included in VIT and EIT received from a broadcaster.

When the changed application signaling information from the DNS server or the information included in the VIT and the EIT indicates that the current news weather broadcast program is terminated and the sports broadcast program is started the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may terminate the displayed news weather broadcast program and application according to the changed application information from the DNS server or the information included in the VIT and the EIT and may display a new sport broadcast program . A detailed description thereof is the same as in .

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive application signaling information from the broadcaster or the DNS server and determine whether there is an application associated with the currently displayed news weather program using the application signaling information as described above. A detailed description thereof is the same as in and thus is not given here.

Then the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may display an application indicator for execution of an application on a display unit .

As described above the DTV receiver according to the present embodiment may receive input information through an input device. The input information according to the present embodiment may include a user input signal and so on that are input by pressing a specific key of a remote controller. An application being executed by the DTV receiver may receive the input information to perform an operation according to the input information and return control regarding a key of the remote controller corresponding to the input information to the DTV receiver so as to allow the DTV receiver to perform an operation associated with the corresponding key. Throughout this specification key input or an operation associated therewith may be called a key event. However problems arise in that while the application processes an event corresponding to the corresponding key if execution of the application is stopped the DTV receiver cannot acquire control about the corresponding key and cannot perform an operation associated with the corresponding key.

Thus to overcome the aforementioned problem the present invention proposes a method of transmitting corresponding input information to an application only when input information of an input device to be processed in a corresponding application is pre configured for the DTV receiver per application and the corresponding input information is input to the DTV receiver. In detail the present invention proposes a method using an application programming interface API in order to configure information about a key required for an application of the input information input through the input device such as a remote controller and so on for the DTV receiver. Information of a plurality of keys may be input through the input device such as a remote controller and so on and mapped to a key code. The plural keys according to the present embodiment may be called a keyset. The key code may be a code for identifying or describing keys and may be represented in a numeric form i.e. integers and so on.

Table 1 below shows an embodiment of an API used to configure key information required for the aforementioned application for the DTV receiver. According to an embodiment of the present invention the API may be referred to as a SetKeyValues API and changed according to designer s intention. In addition according to an embodiment of the present invention the API may be represented by SetKeyValues Integer keys and a value of the integer key in the brackets corresponds to the keycode of keys to be input to each application. The description shown in Table 1 below is used to define a function of the SetKeyValues API. The device in the description may refer to a digital signal processing apparatus or a DTV receiver according to the present invention. The keyset in the description may refer to a set of keys to be transmitted to the application. The Argument refers to a parameter of the API. As shown in Table 1 below the argument of the SetKeyValues API is Keys and refers to an integer set of keys requested by an application.

As illustrated in a user may press the color or left button of the remote controller to input a key corresponding to each button to a DTV receiver . A keycode of each key may have the following integer value as illustrated in .

An application according to an embodiment of the present invention may configure a keyset value to be transmitted to the corresponding application for a DTV receiver using the aforementioned API of Table 1 above. In this case as illustrated in a keyset to be transmitted to a current application includes only a color button and thus the API of Table 1 above may be represented as a keycode value of the color button as illustrated in .

In detail the flowchart of illustrates a process of processing key input based on a keyset to be used in an application by a digital service signal processing apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention. The digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may be interpreted as including only a DTV receiver or the hybrid digital TV system described with reference to which may be changed according to designer s intention.

When the user inputs information corresponding to a specific key of a remote controller the digital service signal processing apparatus may determine whether a current application is running S .

As the determination result when the current application is running the digital service signal processing apparatus may determine whether the application has a keyset i.e. keys to be transmitted to the application S . As described with reference to the application according to the present embodiment may configure the keyset to be transmitted to the application using an API and thus the digital service signal processing apparatus may check the configured keyset through the API.

As the determination result when the current application is not running the digital service signal processing apparatus may process a key event S . Then the digital service signal processing apparatus may determine whether a currently input key is included in the keyset contained in the application S .

As the determination result when the keyset contained in the application contains the currently input key the digital service signal processing apparatus may transmit the key event to the application S .

As the determination result when the keyset contained in the application does not contain the currently input key the digital service signal processing apparatus may process the key event S .

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may terminate a series of operations.

As described above according to an embodiment of the present invention an API is used to transmit input information to an application only when the corresponding input information of an input device to be processed in the corresponding application is pre configured for the DTV receiver per application and the corresponding input information is input to the DTV receiver. Hereinafter an API for applying pointer information to a specific region of a displayed application when an input device is a pointing device will be described with regard to an embodiment of present invention.

When the input device is a pointing device it is relatively effective to apply the pointing information only to a specific region but not to an entire region of the displayed application. Thus an application according to an embodiment of the present invention may call an API of Table 2 below and configure or request a region of the application in which pointer information is to be input or to be activated to the DTV receiver. According to the present embodiment the region of the application in which the pointer information is to be input or to be activated may be referred to as an active area which may be changed according to designer s intention. In addition according to the present invention input of the pointer information or an operation associated therewith may be referred to as a pointer event.

Table 2 below shows an embodiment of an API used to configure an active area in a DTV receiver. According to an embodiment of the present invention the API may be referred to as a SetActiveArea API which may be changed according to designer s intention. In addition according to the present embodiment the API may be represented in SetActiveArea Integer x Integer y Integer width Integer height . The Integer x Integer y Integer width Integer height in the brackets is a coordinate value indicating the active area of the application and has an integer value. The description shown in Table 2 below is used to define a function of the SetActiveArea API. The device in the description may refer to a digital signal processing apparatus or a DTV receiver according to the present invention. The Argument refers to a parameter of the API. As shown in Table 2 below the parameter of the SetActiveArea API may include x y width and height. x and y refer to a coordinate of a left upper corner of the active area. In addition the width may refer to a width of the active area and the height may refer to a height of the active area.

When a user inputs pointer information using the input device an application according to an embodiment of the present invention may configure the active area in a DTV receiver using the API of Table 2 above.

As illustrated in as an indicator of an entire display region of the DTV receiver a left upper portion may be represented by 0 0 and a right lower portion may be represented by 1280 720 . In addition as illustrated in a coordinate of the left upper portion of the active area corresponds to 1000 400 a width corresponds to 200 and a height corresponds to 300. Thus the API of Table 2 above may be represented as follows.

In detail the flowchart of illustrates a process of processing pointer input based on an active area by a digital service signal processing apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention. The digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may be interpreted as including only a DTV receiver or the hybrid digital TV system described with reference to which may be changed according to designer s intention.

When the user moves a pointer of an input device the digital service signal processing apparatus may determine whether a current application is running S .

As the determination result when the current application is running the digital service signal processing apparatus may determine whether the application has an active area S . As described with reference to the application according to the present embodiment may configure the active area using an API and thus the digital service signal processing apparatus may check the configured active area through the API.

As the determination result when the current application is not running the digital service signal processing apparatus may process a pointer event S . Then the digital service signal processing apparatus may determine whether a position coordinate of a currently input pointer is within the active area of the application S .

As the determination result when the position coordinate of the currently input pointer is within the active area the digital service signal processing apparatus may transmit the pointer event to the application S .

As the determination result when the position coordinate of the currently input pointer is not within in the active area the digital service signal processing apparatus may process the pointer event S .

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may terminate a series of operations.

As described above according to an embodiment of the present invention an API is used to transmit input information to an application only when the corresponding input information of an input device to be processed in a corresponding application is pre configured for the DTV receiver per application and the corresponding input information is input to the DTV receiver.

Hereinafter an API for requesting only specific input information such as a keyset to a device according to distinguished application states will be described. According to an embodiment of the present invention an application may represent application states by respective modes using an API of Table 3 below pre define input information of the application according to each mode and then request or configure the input information defined per mode to the device as the application mode is changed. Thus the device may effectively process the input information according to each mode even if the application mode is changed.

Table 3 below shows an embodiment of an API used to configure an application mode and input information defined per mode for a DTV receiver. According to an embodiment of the present invention the API may be referred to as a SetAppMode API and changed according to designer s intention. In addition according to an embodiment of the present invention the API may be represented by SetAppMode Integer mode Integer keys . A value of the Integer mode Integer keys in the brackets indicates an application mode and input information per mode and may be an integer value. The description shown in Table 3 below is used to define a function of the SetAppMode API. The device in the description may refer to a digital signal processing apparatus or a DTV receiver according to the present invention. The Argument refers to a parameter of the API. As shown in Table 3 below the parameter of SetAppMode API may include a mode and a key. The Mode may refer to an application state and may have an integer value corresponding to each state. The key may be defined per mode and may include an integer set. As described above the key may be mapped to a keycode. According to the present invention an integer value indicating a mode is referred to as a mode number and mode numbers and a key set configured per mode number may be collectively referred to as mode information which may be changed according to designer s intention.

As shown in Table 3 below the mode may have a value such as 0 1 2 etc. and an application state indicated by each value will now be described below.

A mode value of 1 means that the application is an icon which may be referred to as ICON MODE or a trigger mode and may be changed according to designer s intention. When the mode value is 1 only an implicative indicator of the application e.g. an application indicator is displayed on a screen. When a mode value is 1 a key value may include a color key Red Green Yellow and Blue in a remote controller which may be changed according to designer s intention.

A mode value of 2 means that an entire application is executed which may be referred to as APP MODE. That is when a mode value is 2 actual content of the application may be displayed on the screen. APP MODE may be divided into a state in which actual content of the application is displayed on a partial region of the screen and a state in which actual content of the application is displayed on an entire region of the screen which may be changed according to designer s intention.

When a mode value is 2 a key value may include a color key a navigation key left right up and down an enter key a reproduction control key stop pause rewind play and fast FWD etc. of the remote controller. When the actual content of the application is displayed on the entire region of the screen the key value may further include a number key and so on which may be changed according to designer s intention.

A mode value of 3 to 7 may be a user defined value and in this case an additional mode may be configured according to designer s intention. In particular when a mode value is 3 to 7 additional modes may be extended compared with a case in which a mode is 1 or 2 and a key set to be used in each extended mode may be pre defined in a device or defined using an API. Thus a case in which actual content of an application corresponding to a mode value of 2 is displayed on an entire region of the screen may be configured as an additional mode.

As described above a SetAppMode API of Table 3 above may include modes indicating respective application states and keys corresponding to the respective modes. As illustrated in the input button of the remote controller may be divided into input buttons corresponding to a mode value of 1 and input buttons corresponding to a mode value of 2.

The input buttons corresponding to a mode value of 1 may include a color key red green yellow and blue which may be changed according to designer s intention.

The input buttons corresponding to a mode value of 2 may include a color key a navigation key left right up and down an enter key a reproduction key stop pause rewind play and fast FWD etc. The case corresponding to a mode value of 2 may be divided into a state in which actual content of the application is displayed on a partial region of the screen and a state in which actual content of the application is displayed on an entire region of the screen. Thus when actual content of the application is displayed on an entire region of the screen the key value may further include input buttons such as a number and so on which may be changed according to designer s intention.

As illustrated in when an application exists the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may display an application indicator together with current program content . In this case an application may have an application mode of 1 through the aforementioned API SetAppMode 1 of Table 3 above and may request or configure a key value corresponding to the mode value to the digital service signal processing apparatus. Then when the user inputs the input information using an input device such as a remote controller and so on the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may determine whether the input information of the user corresponds to the key value of the application. Upon determining that the input information corresponds to the key value of the application the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may process or execute the application according to the corresponding input information. In a user inputs a red button and thus the digital service signal processing apparatus may execute the application and display content of the application together with a current program . Then in this case the application may have an application mode of 2 through the aforementioned API SetAppMode 2 of Table 3 above and may request or configure a key value corresponding to the mode value to the digital service signal processing apparatus. Then when the user inputs the input information using an input device such as a remote controller and so on the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may determine whether the input information of the user corresponds to the key value of the application. Upon determining that the input information corresponds to the key value of the application the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may process or execute the application according to the corresponding input information.

The digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may include the aforementioned DTV receiver or the hybrid TV system described with reference to .

The digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may include a receiving module a generating module a sending module a downloading module an executing module and a registering module . Hereinafter the digital service signal processing apparatus will be described in terms of an operation of each module.

The receiving module according to the present embodiment may receive signaling information. As described with reference to when the signaling information is transmitted via a broadcast network the signaling information may include application signaling information for receiving an application. In addition in this case the signaling information may include a service signaling table including a VCT and an EIT. The service signaling table may include A V data of a real time broadcast service and channel information associated with an application. In addition as described with reference to the signaling information may not include application signaling information.

Then the generating module according to the present embodiment may generate a request using the channel information included in the service signaling table. In detail the generating module according to the present embodiment may acquire channel information time information of a current broadcast program and so on from the service signaling table. Then the generating module according to the present embodiment may generate an HTTP request sentence using the channel information the current broadcast program and so on. The HTTP request sentence may be formed by combining a parent domain name specific media major channel number minor channel number and so on such as http www.ohtv.org ch 9 1 time 2012 11 10 13 10 . . . which may be changed according to designer s intention.

Then the sending module according to the present embodiment may transmit the generated request. As described above the sending module according to the present embodiment may transmit a request signal for transmitting the HTTP request to a DNS server. In this case the receiving module according to the present embodiment may receive application signaling information corresponding to the request signal from the DNS server. As described with reference to the application signaling information may include location information and so on such as application URL information.

Then the downloading module according to the present embodiment may download an application corresponding to the received application signaling information using the received application signaling information. In this case the downloading module according to the present embodiment may determine whether the application corresponding to the received application signaling information is currently stored using the received application signaling information. As described with reference to the downloading module may determine whether an application associated with the received application signaling information is equal to a pre stored or currently executed application and determine whether an application associated with the received application signaling information is valid for a current channel using the received application signaling information. In addition upon determining that the application associated with the received application signaling information is not equal to the pre stored or currently executed application and the application associated with the received application signaling information is valid the downloading module may stop executing the currently executed application. As the determination result when the application is not stored the downloading module may download the application using the application URL information contained in the received application signaling information.

Then the executing module according to the present embodiment may execute an API associated with the downloaded application. As described above the application is associated with the API described with reference to . That is the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may receive input information through an input device. The input information according to the present embodiment may include a user input signal and so on that are input by pressing a specific key of a remote controller. An application being executed by the digital service signal processing apparatus may receive the input information to perform an operation according to the input information and return control regarding a key of the remote controller corresponding to the input information to the DTV receiver so as to allow the DTV receiver to perform an operation associated with the corresponding key. The application according to the present embodiment may use the API described with reference to and Tables 1 to 3 in order to transmit corresponding input information to an application only when input information of an input device to be processed in a corresponding application is pre configured for the DTV receiver per application and the corresponding input information is input to the DTV receiver. In particular the application according to the present embodiment may use the SetAppMode API in order to configure an application mode and input information defined per mode for a DTV receiver. As described above the SetAppMode API may represent application states by respective modes and may be used to pre define input information of the application according to each mode and then to request or configure the input information defined per mode to the device as the application mode is changed. As described above an integer value indicating a mode is referred to as a mode number and mode numbers and a key set configured per mode number may be collectively referred to as mode information which may be changed according to designer s intention.

Then the registering module according to the present embodiment may store the key set configure per mode number of the aforementioned SetAppMode API.

The digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may include a transmitting module and a receiving module . Hereinafter the digital service signal processing apparatus will be described in terms of an operation of each module.

The transmitting module according to the present embodiment may generate and transmit signaling information. As described with reference to the signaling information may include application signaling information for receiving an application. In addition in this case the signaling information may include a service signaling table including a VCT and an EIT. The service signaling table may include channel information associated with an application and A V data of a real time broadcast service. In addition as described with reference to the signaling information may not include application signaling information.

Then the receiving module according to the present embodiment may receive a request associated with channel information. In detail the request according to the present embodiment may be generated using channel information time information of a current broadcast program and so on from the service signaling table. In particular the request according to the present embodiment may include an HTTP request sentence. The HTTP request sentence may be formed by combining a parent domain name specific media major channel number minor channel number and so on such as http www.ohtv.org ch 9 1 time 2012 11 10 13 10 . . . which may be changed according to designer s intention.

Then the transmitting module may transmit application signaling information associated with a digital service signal according to the received request. As described with reference to the application signaling information may include location information and so on such as application URL information.

As described above the application according to the present embodiment is associated with the API described with reference to . That is the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may receive input information through an input device. The input information according to the present embodiment may include a user input signal and so on that are input by pressing a specific key of a remote controller. An application being executed by the digital service signal processing apparatus may receive the input information to perform an operation according to the input information and return control regarding a key of the remote controller corresponding to the input information to the DTV receiver so as to allow the DTV receiver to perform an operation associated with the corresponding key. The application according to the present embodiment may use the API described with reference to and Tables 1 to 3 in order to transmit corresponding input information to an application only when input information of an input device to be processed in a corresponding application is pre configured for the DTV receiver per application and the corresponding input information is input to the DTV receiver. In particular the application according to the present embodiment may use the SetAppMode API in order to configure an application mode and input information defined per mode for a DTV receiver. As described above the SetAppMode API may represent application states by respective modes and may be used to pre define input information of the application according to each mode and then to request or configure the input information defined per mode to the device as the application mode is changed. As described above an integer value indicating a mode is referred to as a mode number and mode numbers and a key set configured per mode number may be collectively referred to as mode information which may be changed according to designer s intention.

The digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may include the aforementioned DTV receiver or the hybrid TV system described with reference to .

The digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may receive signaling information from a digital service signal S . As described with reference to the receiving module included in the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may receive signaling information via a broadcast network. As described with reference to when the signaling information is transmitted through the broadcast network the signaling information may include application signaling information for receiving an application. In addition in this case the signaling information may include a service signaling table including a VCT and an EIT. The service signaling table may include channel information associated with an application and A V data of a real time broadcast service. In addition as described with reference to the signaling information may not include application signaling information.

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may generate a request using the channel information contained in the service signaling table S . In detail as described with reference to a generating module included in the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may acquire channel information time information of a current broadcast program and so on from the service signaling table. Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may generate an HTTP request sentence using the channel information the current broadcast program and so on. The HTTP request sentence may be formed by combining a parent domain name specific media major channel number minor channel number and so on such as http www.ohtv.org ch 9 1 time 2012 11 10 13 10 . . . which may be changed according to designer s intention.

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may transmit the generated request S . As described with reference to the sending module according to the present embodiment may transmit a request signal for transmitting the HTTP request to a DNS server.

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may receive application signaling information corresponding to the request signal from the DNS server S . As described with reference to the application signaling information may include location information and so on such as application URL information.

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may download an application corresponding to the received application signaling information using the received application signaling information S . In this case the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may determine whether the application corresponding to the received application signaling information is currently stored using the received application signaling information. As described with reference to the digital service signal processing apparatus may determine whether an application associated with the received application signaling information is equal to a pre stored or currently executed application and determine whether an application associated with the received application signaling information is valid for a current channel using the received application signaling information. In addition upon determining that the application associated with the received application signaling information is not equal to the pre stored or currently executed application and the application associated with the received application signaling information is valid the digital service signal processing apparatus may stop executing the currently executed application. As the determination result when the application is not stored the digital service signal processing apparatus may download the application using the application URL information contained in the received application signaling information.

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may execute an API associated with the downloaded application S . As described above the application is associated with the API described with reference to . That is the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may receive input information through an input device. The input information according to the present embodiment may include a user input signal and so on that are input by pressing a specific key of a remote controller. An application being executed by the digital service signal processing apparatus may receive the input information to perform an operation according to the input information and return control regarding a key of the remote controller corresponding to the input information to the DTV receiver so as to allow the DTV receiver to perform an operation associated with the corresponding key. The application according to the present embodiment may use the API described with reference to and Tables 1 to 3 in order to transmit corresponding input information to an application only when input information of an input device to be processed in a corresponding application is pre configured for the DTV receiver per application and the corresponding input information is input to the DTV receiver. In particular the application according to the present embodiment may use the SetAppMode API in order to configure an application mode and input information defined per mode for a DTV receiver. As described above SetAppMode API may represent application states by respective modes and may be used to pre define input information of the application according to each mode and then to request or configure the input information defined per mode to the device as the application mode is changed. As described above an integer value indicating a mode is referred to as a mode number and mode numbers and a key set configured per mode number may be collectively referred to as mode information which may be changed according to designer s intention.

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may store the key set configure per mode number of the aforementioned SetAppMode API S .

The digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may generate and transmit signaling information. As described with reference to the signaling information may include application signaling information for receiving an application. In addition in this case the signaling information may include a service signaling table including a VCT and an EIT. The service signaling table may include channel information associated with an application and A V data of a real time broadcast service. In addition as described with reference to the signaling information may not include application signaling information.

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may receive a request associated with channel information. In detail the request according to the present embodiment may be generated using channel information time information of a current broadcast program and so on from the service signaling table. In particular the request according to the present embodiment may include an HTTP request sentence. The HTTP request sentence may be formed by combining a parent domain name specific media major channel number minor channel number and so on such as http www.ohtv.org ch 9 1 time 2012 11 10 13 10 . . . which may be changed according to designer s intention.

Then the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may transmit application signaling information associated with a digital service signal according to the received request. As described with reference to the application signaling information may include location information and so on such as application URL information.

As described above the application according to the present embodiment is associated with the API described with reference to . That is the digital service signal processing apparatus according to the present embodiment may receive input information through an input device. The input information according to the present embodiment may include a user input signal and so on that are input by pressing a specific key of a remote controller. An application being executed by the digital service signal processing apparatus may receive the input information to perform an operation according to the input information and return control regarding a key of the remote controller corresponding to the input information to the DTV receiver so as to allow the DTV receiver to perform an operation associated with the corresponding key. The application according to the present embodiment may use the API described with reference to and Tables 1 to 3 in order to transmit corresponding input information to an application only when input information of an input device to be processed in a corresponding application is pre configured for the DTV receiver per application and the corresponding input information is input to the DTV receiver. In particular the application according to the present embodiment may use the SetAppMode API in order to configure an application mode and input information defined per mode for a DTV receiver. As described above the SetAppMode API may represent application states by respective modes and may be used to pre define input information of the application according to each mode and then to request or configure the input information defined per mode to the device as the application mode is changed. As described above an integer value indicating a mode is referred to as a mode number and mode numbers and a key set configured per mode number may be collectively referred to as mode information which may be changed according to designer s intention.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method and apparatus for processing a digital service signal may effectively manage a database associated with application signaling information

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method and apparatus for processing a digital service signal may control a lifecycle of an application associated with a corresponding broadcast program according to change in broadcast program and so on.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method and apparatus for processing a digital service signal may effectively process information input from an input device such as a remote controller etc. by an application.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a method and apparatus for processing a digital service signal may configure an application state and effectively process the input information so as to process the input information input from the input device such as the remote controller etc. according to the application state.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the inventions. Thus it is intended that the present invention covers the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

