---

title: Method and apparatus for providing an architecture for delivering mixed reality content
abstract: An approach is described for providing an architecture for delivering mixed reality content. A mixed reality platform determines one or more requests for one or more digital objects. The one or more digital objects aggregate location-based data, one or more computations, or a combination for supporting at least one mixed reality application. The mixed reality platform also determines one or more densities of the one or more requests with respect to one or more geographical boundaries defined by one or more clusters of the one or more digital objects. The mixed reality platform then processes and/or facilitates a processing of the one or more densities to cause, at least in part, a provisioning of one or more computational resources, one or more storage resources, one or more connectivity resources, or a combination thereof across one or more architectural layers of at least one cloud computing infrastructure for delivering the one or more digital objects, the at least one mixed reality application, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09059942&OS=09059942&RS=09059942
owner: Nokia Technologies Oy
number: 09059942
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20130103
---
This application claims the benefit of the earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 584 581 filed Jan. 9 2012 entitled Method and Apparatus for Providing an Architecture for Delivering Mixed Reality Content the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been the development of location based services e.g. navigation services mapping services augmented reality applications etc. that have greatly increased in popularity functionality and content. Augmented reality and mixed reality applications allow users to see a view of the physical world merged with virtual objects in real time. Mapping applications further allow such virtual objects to be annotated to location information. However with this increase in the available content and functions of these services service providers and device manufacturers face significant challenges to present the content which is relevant for users and in ways that can be easily and quickly understood by the users while providing for efficient use of available computational resources for servers clients and other components associated with providing mixed reality location based applications. For example presenting mixed reality content e.g. three dimensional data tiles map tiles etc. can be resource intensive particularly when mixed reality applications are hosted over a cloud computing infrastructure where content is streamed to the user device as needed.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for providing an efficient architecture for delivering mixed reality content.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining one or more requests for one or more digital objects. The one or more digital objects aggregate location based data one or more computations or a combination for supporting at least one mixed reality application. The method also comprises determining one or more densities of the one or more requests with respect to one or more geographical boundaries defined by one or more clusters of the one or more digital objects. The method further comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more densities to cause at least in part a provisioning of one or more computational resources one or more storage resources one or more connectivity resources or a combination thereof across one or more architectural layers of at least one cloud computing infrastructure for delivering the one or more digital objects the at least one mixed reality application or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine one or more requests for one or more digital objects. The one or more digital objects aggregate location based data one or more computations or a combination for supporting at least one mixed reality application. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more densities of the one or more requests with respect to one or more geographical boundaries defined by one or more clusters of the one or more digital objects. The apparatus is further caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more densities to cause at least in part a provisioning of one or more computational resources one or more storage resources one or more connectivity resources or a combination thereof across one or more architectural layers of at least one cloud computing infrastructure for delivering the one or more digital objects the at least one mixed reality application or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of media information associated with at least one augmented reality application to determine one or more requests for one or more digital objects. The one or more digital objects aggregate location based data one or more computations or a combination for supporting at least one mixed reality application. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more densities of the one or more requests with respect to one or more geographical boundaries defined by one or more clusters of the one or more digital objects. The apparatus is further caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more densities to cause at least in part a provisioning of one or more computational resources one or more storage resources one or more connectivity resources or a combination thereof across one or more architectural layers of at least one cloud computing infrastructure for delivering the one or more digital objects the at least one mixed reality application or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining one or more requests for one or more digital objects. The one or more digital objects aggregate location based data one or more computations or a combination for supporting at least one mixed reality application. The apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more densities of the one or more requests with respect to one or more geographical boundaries defined by one or more clusters of the one or more digital objects. The apparatus further comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more densities to cause at least in part a provisioning of one or more computational resources one or more storage resources one or more connectivity resources or a combination thereof across one or more architectural layers of at least one cloud computing infrastructure for delivering the one or more digital objects the at least one mixed reality application or a combination thereof.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of the originally filed claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing an architecture for delivering mixed reality content are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term computation closure identifies a particular computation procedure together with relations and communications among various processes including passing arguments sharing process results selecting results provided from computation of alternative inputs flow of data and process results etc. The computation closures e.g. a granular reflective set of instructions data and or related execution context or state provide the capability of slicing of computations for processes and transmitting the computation slices between devices infrastructures and information sources.

As used herein the term cloud refers to an aggregated set of information and computation closures from different sources. This multi sourcing is very flexible since it accounts and relies on the observation that the same piece of information or computation can come from different sources. In one embodiment information and computations within the cloud are represented using Semantic Web standards such as Resource Description Framework RDF RDF Schema RDFS OWL Web Ontology Language FOAF Friend of a Friend ontology rule sets in RuleML Rule Markup Language etc. Furthermore as used herein RDF refers to a family of World Wide Web Consortium W3C specifications originally designed as a metadata data model. It has come to be used as a general method for conceptual description or modeling of information and computations that is implemented in web resources using a variety of syntax formats. Although various embodiments are described with respect to clouds it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other structures and conceptual description methods used to create distributed models of information and computations.

A benefit of using such applications allows for the association of content to a location or to one or more structures e.g. buildings roads etc. in the location wherein the structure in a virtual world may be presented as a 3D object. The content may be shared with others or kept for a user to remind the user of information. Typically the more precise a structure is defined the more useful the content.

In one embodiment a seamless interaction system between a user and mixed reality is built with several subcomponents naturally combined such as for example mixed reality scenery a number of home screens in the mobile or nomadic device backend support provided by a certain cloud infrastructure and corresponding API extensions and some other nomadic device with similar capabilities. However seamless interaction between the user and a mixed reality environment is hard to achieve. For example reasoning in the real world may be based on various behavioral profiles while the augmented reality concepts may lack access to. In order for a mixed reality system to be capable to reach conclusions and offer solutions based on real facts artifact detections can be performed to extend the current augmented reality concepts wherein reasoning engines can be applied so that users and mixed reality systems provide scenes operations and processes such as what to do or where to go while taking into account behavioral profiles.

Moreover traditional systems generally do not support very flexible mechanisms for dynamic computational resources available which is particularly important when implementing mixed reality applications. For example scaling a mixed reality system to accommodate increasing numbers of users locations and mixed reality operations it becomes increasingly important to achieve efficient use of computational resources connectivity resources e.g. resources for transferring mixed reality content e.g. 3D data tiles such as augmented reality tiles map tiles etc. between the cloud servers content providers etc. and end user devices and other system resources e.g. storage memory etc. .

By way of example mixed reality is a particularly challenging case generally consisting of at least three data and processing intensive tasks that are typically accomplished in real time to provide a good user experience 

 1 The user device must capture a stream of raw data describing the environment sensors such as imaging sensor inertial sensors positioning sensors etc. This data is often processed into a higher representation e.g. extracting feature points from images for processing which can be very resource intensive.

 2 The sensor data is then processed to determine for instance the position orientation scale etc. of the device s view of the world at the current instant. This may entail matching a sparse set of image features against a massive database of local or global feature points of which a local copy of at least proximate points may be made.

 3 Upon completion of steps 1 and 2 the device then integrates the augmenting data into the current representation of the world e.g. videostream audiostream etc. such that the data aligns to the current view at the current instant.

These tasks clearly place heavy requirements on supporting systems in terms of connectivity and processing and the optimal balance between client and remote processing of these tasks may vary depending on the capabilities of the client and the particular mixed reality experience.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to provide an architecture for delivering mixed reality content e.g. 3D data or map tiles . In one embodiment the system consists of several sub components to form a seamless architecture between location mixed reality and connectivity. Those subcomponents are naturally combined map tiles mixed reality tiles in the mobile or nomadic device and connectivity options e.g. from medium range connections such as cognitive radio CR to short range or close proximity connections such as radio frequency memory tags Bluetooth other short range radio protocols etc. with back end support provided by for instance a cloud computing infrastructure and corresponding application programming interface API extensions as well as some other nomadic devices with similar capabilities. In this way the system evaluates overall system data flows workloads etc. to provide appropriate levels of system connectivity memory storage and processing power provisioning.

In one embodiment the illustrated system forms a baseline 1 to construct mesh granularity for dynamic computation 2 to support proper computations at to the edges of a content delivery system 3 to utilize pre fetched regional data structures and regional databases and appropriate of endpoint structures e.g. near field communications NFC tags or other radio frequency RF memory tags for delivery of mixed reality content. In one embodiment the system takes as a baseline the notion of composition of digital objects described in more detail below with respect to with the possibility of creating less or more used dense artifacts or artifact clusters above the digital objects clusters with different metadata sets. The system also expands the notion of encapsulation these clusters or artifacts into the digital objects. By way of example such digital objects consist of data and computations. Interaction results for these objects are formed when combining location based data such as map tiles with mixed reality tiles with the available connectivity options e.g. connectivity options for delivering the objects or mixed reality content within the system as well as to user devices for rendering . In one embodiment computational activity is derived based at least in part on how dense these three components e.g. map tiles mixed reality tiles and connectivity used between client and server are. In addition the system provides mapping of digital objects runtime executions association of metadata and determining how dense computational links are between mobile devices and different parts of the cloud e.g. edge core regional layers . For example when a user access mixed reality digital objects by for instance dragging digital objects to a user interface launch pad as described in below the system decomposes the objects and corresponding computations for execution e.g. executing computations to determine available connectivity connections .

In one embodiment the system expands traditional mixed reality concepts by generating a geographical mapping of mixed reality content such as map tiles augmented reality tiles 3D data corresponding digital objects and available connectivity options to facilitate provisioning of resources across architectural layers of a cloud computing architecture. In one embodiment the system can also apply reasoning engines to various embodiments of the approach described herein to provide additional functionality. For example behavioral profiles can be taken into account to personalize delivery of mixed reality content to a user. For example the style and outlook of these realities maybe different e.g. sliced with or without borders increased and decreased outlooks. In particular when slicing the three components maptiles mixed reality tiles 3D data and connectivity the computational activities are found easily between system front end and backend. In other words the system can determine what mixed reality content e.g. map tiles augmented reality tiles etc. are most often accessed by users and from which component of the delivery architecture e.g. server client edge cloud etc. . In one embodiment the user controls the details or amount of information about what content is being requested that are pushed to the provider.

In another embodiment the architecture enables the formation of different end point layers for different use cases e.g. private work hobby etc. for different locations mixed reality and connectivity options. It also allows forming different classes with without priority with certain service discovery parameters. For example close proximity connectivity RF memory tags provides certain marks visible to alert user of the availability of mixed reality content. In this way the user can touch his device to the RF memory tag to update map and mixed reality tiles as well as any parameters computations etc. that are needed to process the new content.

In one embodiment the system refers to mixed reality tiles as a short hand description for an architecture that chunks geographically indexed mixed and augmented reality applications data for easier indexing cross indexing delivery and caching. Embodiments include geo indexed representations of 3D mesh data representing building models ground terrain etc geo indexed representations of street imagery geo indexed representations of images image feature points and or image feature descriptors across multiple scales for planes at a given location geolocated point cloud data representing image feature points or image descriptors and data links to data or datastreams representing the additional media to be augmented in the current view on reality including non visual modalities .

In another embodiment in order to provide a seamless interaction between a user of a user equipment and mixed reality the interaction is enabled by the mixed reality platform through creating of decomposable digital objects artifacts and use of functional chains available in the user equipment or in one or more computation clouds accessible by the user.

In one embodiment for the purpose of decomposition a certain virtual area presented and supported by the user equipment can be utilized where the digital objects can be parsed in order to map the data and computational parts against the computational ontology used and respective functional elements. In one embodiment a computational ontology consists of capabilities of energy consumption security enforcement privacy polies other rule enforcement and the like. Furthermore the functional elements can be provided by the user equipment or by any other computing devices for example one or more neighbor devices over some communication means a server in the cloud etc. or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the digital objects presented and exposed by the mixed reality platform are constructed from the data and respective processes presented with computation closures of computation spaces enforced with particular decomposition techniques while applying relevant privacy adjustments.

As shown in the system comprises sets of user equipment UEs having connectivity to the mixed reality platform via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network close proximity network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UEs are any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

In one embodiment the UEs are respectively equipped with one or more user interfaces UI . Each UI may consist of several UI elements not shown at any time depending on the service that is being used. UI elements may be icons representing user contexts such as information e.g. music information contact information video information etc. functions e.g. setup search etc. and or processes e.g. download play edit save etc. . These contexts may require certain sets of media dependent computation closures which may affect the service for example the bit error rate etc. Additionally each UI element may be bound to a context process by granular distribution. In one embodiment granular distribution enables processes to be implicitly or explicitly migrated between devices computation clouds and other infrastructure. Additionally a UE may be a mobile device with embedded Radio Frequency RF tag system of device to device connections such that computational operations and content can be locally transmitted among devices where devices can be peer devices accessories mobile readers writers or a combination thereof. Additionally the computational operations and content transmissions can be between devices and tags where content read write takes place among devices and tags with minor or no computational operations at tag side.

In one embodiment the process of interaction between a user of UE and mixed reality may consist of several stages of operations such as for example bootstrapping usage end titles etc. In one embodiment the bootstrapping operation may include augmenting a scene e.g. a video stream an audio stream one or more still images etc. with anchors wherein anchors are empty artifacts or digital objects. The bootstrapping operation may also include definition of digital objects and attaching them to the selected anchors. The user may define a certain number of digital objects in an augmented reality view with associated data and computations.

In one embodiment during the usage operation a user of UE is enabled by the mixed reality platform to select and drag digital objects in order to undertake certain actions. For example a user interested in museum tours may select a certain museum select a route to the museum select points of interest associated with the museum check the schedules associated to the points of interest and check whether the schedules are based on invitation or for the public. The user may be also given the capability to update existing digital objects by injecting a new or updated digital object into a data repository or other storage areas managed by the mixed reality platform .

In one embodiment during the end titles operation a user is enabled to define a subset of digital objects with restricted view number of properties . It is noted that a restricted area may have no digital objects or may not be justified according to the user s personal settings.

In one embodiment results from to digital objects that are dragged between user and mixed reality are gathered. Such digital objects consist of data and computations. Interaction results are gathered when object is dragged to a dedicated area or to the right place of a scenery e.g. from mixed reality to home screens or vice versa . Digital objects gather results from initial computations at home screen and updated objects are dragged back to mixed reality. This provides interactions computations and service discovery. Additionally one or more digital objects may be enabled in mixed reality after an RF tag has been touched in real world.

In one embodiment a user can control the details that are pushed to the provider shown in the mixed reality . The style and outlook of these realities can be different for example sliced with or without borders increased and decreased outlooks etc.

In one embodiment the digital objects are generated by the mixed reality platform via basic projection and injection functionalities. In order to project from an information space a computation space or a combination thereof a partitioning function can be used. Similarly in order to return the contents of a projected information space or computation space back into the space the projected space is injected back under a filter. The filter removes any inserted information or computation that is not to be injected. The injection also induces a merge of information over any projected spaces where multiple spaces exist.

In one embodiment seamless interaction between the user and mixed reality is used for rich media content processes what user requires from reality scenes and communications.

In one embodiment projection and injection of the user and mixed reality forms behavioral patterns and operations between the realities. In case of projection a triggering event for example provided by a query is received for projecting computation closures from an augmented reality computation space representing a digital object.

In one embodiment a subset of information content from the augmented reality information space associated with a digital object is extracted by using a partitioning function. Furthermore a run time information space is created in cloud using the extracted subset of information content.

In one embodiment an injection operation includes receiving a triggering event for example a query to inject computation closures into an augmented reality computation space . Prior to the injection it is determined whether the computation closure and the augmented reality computation space exist. Furthermore if the closure and the augmented reality information computation spaces exist it is determined whether the computation closure is on a list of information computation spaces projected from the augmented reality information computation space.

In another embodiment if the computation closure is on the list of information computation spaces projected from the augmented reality information computation space a filtering function is applied on the information content of the computation closure and any other information spaces projected from the augmented reality information space. Additionally the filtered information content is added to the information content of the augmented reality information computation space.

In one embodiment any artifacts within the pointing direction of an input equipment e.g. camera camcorder microphone etc. are selected to detect any digital objects that are projected and or injected between user and mixed realities. For example when a mobile device points to a magazine including information such as brand name certain text picture etc. it picks up various artifacts from the pointing direction coverage scenery . The mixed reality platform can detect which digital objects are available. It is also able to make implication analysis of when and how objects information is dragged out.

In one embodiment the projection and injection of information and or computations between a user and mixed reality behavioral patterns and operations between these realities is formed in multiple stages. In one embodiment a composition of behavioral patterns is added to the identity of the user and the mixed reality architecture. It is noted that projection and injection are baseline functions.

In one embodiment one or more functional elements for the event object are set wherein the object is read as data the process that is going to be applied on the data is determined and the functional element is formed based on the data and the determined process. For example computation closures from computation spaces can be utilized as fine grain processing mechanisms to describe projection and injection.

In one embodiment the mixed reality platform may cover any item e.g. digital object that can be created and updated for a user of UE and for the mixed reality platform . The digital objects can be utilized by barcode readers text recognition readers RF memory tag readers writers containing readable writable digital objects etc. For example while viewing a magazine the name of the magazine can provides suitable item characteristics. A user of UE may point the UE to the magazine s brand name certain text picture etc. and picks up various artifacts from the pointing direction coverage scenery etc . With reasoning applied the mixed reality platform it is able to detect what digital objects are available in the data repository or within the mixed reality platform or a combination thereof for the magazine s reality. Furthermore the mixed reality platform can detect implications associated with the digital objects wherein the implications are activated when object s information is dragged out. Additionally the mixed reality platform may recognize other data associated with the digital objects for example data other than the bar codes.

In one embodiment the mixed reality platform can be associated with a cognitive radio system not shown . The cognitive radio connectivity can enable transmission of context information locations and recognized objects in a particular event other object and their neighborhoods. The cognitive connectivity can also transmit behavioral patterns affecting a user of UE mixed reality projection and injection functional elements attached to particular places spaces times users scenes etc.

In one embodiment the data such as time event place space users scenes etc. associated with a specific user s personal information is taken from the user s spaces such as for example user s calendar events wherein the user can control the limited data profile available from the context specific databases. Furthermore the selected augmented data is responded back. The user s own agent can do reasoning on selected data and provide collected entity combining the data and the reasoning with controlling functionality to release only the minimum information needed for a process. In other words a user of UE knows and controls his her own data. It is noted that typically in augmented reality systems a high volume of data resides elsewhere and is beyond user s own control. However the mixed reality platform allows projection of data to the user s own space. A user s own data settings can be much bigger than what is relieved to the system when a digital object is dragged between the user and the mixed realities display on the UI . Furthermore the information attached to the dragged object is updated to from a launch pad area of the UI or to another particular area.

In various embodiments the style outlook and appearance of the user and mixed reality displays may be different based on operations done with projection and injection activities such as for example sliced equally or picture in picture with outlook borders increased and decreased outlooks depending on the projection or injection functionalities etc. Therefore the outlook and style can adapt to the focus point selected by the user.

Furthermore projection and injection may include transmission of mixed reality identifies and delivering preliminary metadata associated with the object if the metadata exist to from a launch pad pulling selected area or object to the launch pad from mixed reality screen to user reality home screen launch pads or vice versa selecting or turning the object direction where to drag from mixed reality display to user reality home screen or vice versa if necessary or a combination thereof. Additionally a user may have the ability to tap other objects move all tapped object to the launch pad and tap the launch pad area to retrieve context menu or a drop down list.

In one embodiment the behavioral pattern may be tied to a number of items tapped dragged through launch pad or only those that match the results of a query. The mixed reality platform may provide free form of input query area one line search query area URL links to number of objects or a combination thereof to the user of UE 

In one embodiment the user of UE and the mixed reality display on UI may have interfaces as one option or formed as rectangular areas that grow increase or decrease in size.

In one embodiment several subcomponents such as mixed reality scenery a number of home screens in the mobile or nomadic device backend support provided by a certain cloud infrastructure and corresponding Application Programming Interface API extensions some other nomadic device with similar capabilities etc. are naturally combined.

In one embodiment if multiple home screens are available they can be merged further divided into multiple sub screens or a combination thereof if needed.

In one embodiment the operational mode consists of observing augmented reality stream with digital objects or anchors. The augmented reality window can be adjusted in either two or more views tiled along the sides of each other where at least one should represent a home screen with application launch pad.

In one embodiment the launch pad enables dragging of the digital object from augmented reality side or other screens. Once a digital object is within a launch pad area the process of digital object decomposition takes place. A launch pad can work as a primary parser execution strategy enabler and process mapper along with data.

In various embodiments operations are always bi directional wherein the functional properties along with relevant data can be gathered from one or more home screens and either a certain digital object can be associated or new digital objects can be created.

In one embodiment digital objects can be placed back to the augmented reality side screens wherein the object can update already existing augmented or digital objects or can be placed in newly defined and activated anchors.

In one embodiment a home screen can hold several applications functional chains constructed out of the computation closures and connected into branches .

In one embodiment once a digital object is dragged from augmented reality screen to home screen the following may occur AAdata Acomp decomposeA Adata Acomp Map Adata Map Acomp ExecStrategy Branches Options 1 wherein A is a digital object compose of data Adata and computation closures Acomp. The digital object A is then decomposed into Adata Acomp Adata and Acomp are allocated according to a particular runtime environment Map Adata and Map Acomp are parsed with process mapper in order to determine certain executables to be executed against the Adata. The ExecStrategy is constructed and updated with a mapping of execution results. The Branches and Options represent number of branches and number of options and are taken into the functional chains selection process before actual execution starts.

In one embodiment once the functional elements are gathered on a home screen the process of migration and projection takes place as a reverse of the decomposition process 1 . Furthermore the size and the position of augmented reality screen can be adjustable as seen in the embodiments of .

By way of example the UEs and the mixed reality platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

As shown in the cloud consists of three architectural layers a core layer a regional layer and an edge layer . The core layer hosts the components that originate a particular mixed reality application or service the regional layer provide replication and workload distribution of the functions of the core layer using regional servers and the edge layer hosts data end points that interface with client devices e.g. UEs . In one embodiment service level APIs are outsourced from the core layer to the regional layer and beyond to the edge layer . Each of the layers are considered contributing nodes of the overall cloud infrastructure that include components that can be provisioned to provide a particular mixed reality application or service.

In one embodiment the system leverages the computational load associated with the mixed reality application or service among the various layers through the mixed reality digital objects. These digital objects for instance include location based data such as map tiles augmented reality tiles as well as connectivity information e.g. CR resources . These digital objects include the computation closures for processing and or other managing the location based or mixed reality data contained therein. In this way functions such as regional databases coexistence managers for determining connectivity options etc. can be outsourced from the core layer to the regional layer and or the edge layer . Thus in one example computational workload associated with a mixed reality service can be intelligently moved by taking AR and map specific features into account e.g. resolution level of detail and other performance critical attributes . In this way the system increases the computational elasticity of mixed reality applications by enabling migration of both data and computations from one architectural layer to another.

In one embodiment the approach for granular digital object composition and decomposition is defined as a function of the capabilities of the end device congestion of the data computational point on the edge layer e.g. latency bucket and the computational data support of the back end e.g. core layer and or regional layer . In one embodiment the support consists of 

 3 pre fetching or caching of regional data structures and regional databases with appropriate levels of connectivity and

 4 identifying what endpoints are used and how frequently their contents are updated based on for instance monitoring requests from user devices received at the end points.

In one embodiment location map tiles and mixed reality AR tiles together with dense connectivity e.g. CR options computational activities are partially rendered at device and back end side. One set of these components map tiles AR tiles CR options could form one country specific computational activity domain. They form certain clusters with certain thresholds between user device density and core edge of cloud needs. Similarly one set of components could form a temporary installation specific computational activity domain e.g. pertaining to a densely visited but temporary event like Olympic games Shanghai Expo 2010 etc. In another embodiment a set of components could form a narrower cluster within a broader cluster as a subset representing similar component requirements with exceptions e.g. exceptions in pre processing differentiating requirements for differently powered devices for the same user case or exceptions in latency budgeting differentiating see through augmented reality cases from street view imagery based mixed reality cases .

As shown presents a diagram that shows less used and more used digital objects mapped onto a geographical area represented by the digital object. Each square represents a map tile and or AR tile. Accordingly the diagram represents an index of map tiles AR tiles with details of their computations. For example first the system enables tile constructions map tiles AR tiles and indexing mapping dynamically applications and provides details for computations.

Based on this mapping the system determines and forms clusters e.g. cluster and cluster of data accesses e.g. data accesses of cluster and data accesses of cluster and respective computations. In one embodiment the clusters and represent digital objects that are most frequently used requested processed etc. The cross hatches representing the data accesses and represent the densities of computational links requests etc. associated with the respective digital objects map tiles AR tiles etc. For example the system pins out data encapsulations for computations based on the clusters. In one embodiment the physical location of the clusters can be used to determine what kind of storage data would be needed and where to move the data storage.

In one embodiment the system can also process the determined locations of the clusters to define connectivity where mixed reality content pays and maps certain processes against connectivity availabilities. For example if many requests or computations are associated with mixed reality content for rendering a popular point of interest. The system can recommend the place of RF or NFC memory tags at the location for distributing updated mixed reality content and associated computations. In this case the system can also construct the mesh granularity in which the level of granularity of the computations can be determine based on resource availability computational density etc.

In one embodiment the front end can also represent different end points associated with the data accesses or requests. These end points can be further segmented into business uses private users and other classes of usage. The artifacts or clusters and enable for instance decomposing and analyzing computations to provide the execution strategy for scheduling attachment processes at the end device or the cloud for delivering mixed reality content see the discussion with respect to for more details .

In one embodiment per step of flowchart of the digital object generator processes and or facilitates a processing of media information associated with at least one augmented reality application of UE to determine one or more digital objects wherein the one or more digital objects aggregate at least in part data for defining the one or more digital objects one or more computation closures acting on the data one or more results of the one or more computation closures or a combination thereof. The data may be determined from the information space from the data repository from the storage or a combination thereof. Similarly the computation closures may be determined from the computation spaces from the data repository from the storage or a combination thereof. Furthermore the digital objects the data the one or more computation closures the one or more results or a combination thereof may be stored in data repository in storage or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the digital object modification module causes at least in part a composition a decomposition or a combination thereof of the one or more digital objects. The digital object modification module per step of causes at least in part an enhancement a modification an initiation or a combination thereof of one or more functions associated with the at least one augmented reality application of the UE 

In various embodiments as seen in flowchart of the composition the decomposition or a combination thereof of the one or more digital objects may comprise application of various functions on the digital objects.

In one embodiment per step of the initiation module determines a mapping of the data the one or more computation closures or a combination thereof. The mapping can represent the mapping can identify relationships between the data items e.g. between real world data and augmented reality data between the computation closures and data e.g. identifying the functions that are being applied on the data or a combination thereof. The mapping results may be stored in the data repository in the storage or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the initiation module determines one or more executables based at least in part on the mapping. The executables are associated with the functions determined by the mapping. The executables may be stored in the data repository in the storage or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the initiation module determines one or more execution strategies for the data the one or more computation closures or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more executables. The execution strategies may be determined by the application providers by the user of UE by the network management entities managing communication network or a combination thereof. The execution strategies may be retrieved from the data repository from the storage or a combination thereof. Similarly the determined execution strategies may be stored in the data repository in the storage or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the initiation module determines one or more execution branches one or more execution options or a combination thereof based at least in part on the one or more execution strategies. The execution branches execution options or a combination may be determined by the application providers by the user of UE by the network management entities managing communication network or a combination thereof. The execution branches execution options or a combination may be retrieved from the data repository from the storage or a combination thereof. Similarly the determined execution branches execution options or a combination may be stored in the data repository in the storage or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the one or more functions associated with the at least one augmented reality application are based at least in part on the mapping the one or more executables the one or more execution strategies the one or more execution branches the one or more execution options or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the mapping the one or more executables the one or more execution strategies the one or more execution branches the one or more execution options or a combination thereof are determined at least in part via the one or more user interface elements such as a launch pad area a home screen or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the digital object generator processes and or facilitates a processing of the media information to determine one or more anchor points for the one or more digital objects wherein the anchor points are empty artifacts or place holders for the generated digital objects.

In one embodiment per step of the display module causes at least in part a rendering of a user interface for presenting the one or more digital objects in an augmented reality display on UI using the anchor points. The user interface may includes at least in part one or more user interface elements wherein the digital object modification module can use the user interface elements to cause at least in part an initiation of the composition the decomposition or a combination thereof by the initiation module .

In one embodiment the one or more user interface elements may include at least in part a launch pad area a home screen or a combination thereof on the UI to which the one or more digital objects are moved to cause at least in part the initiation of the composition the decomposition or a combination thereof by the initiation module .

In one embodiment per step of the operations module determines at least a portion of the data the one or more computation closures the one or more results or a combination thereof from the one or more user interface elements via one or more bi directional operations.

In one embodiment per step of the digital object generator causes at least in part a creation of one or more other digital objects based at least in part on the composition the decomposition or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the digital object modification module causes at least in part an execution of the one or more functions via the data the one or more computation closures the results or a combination thereof associated with the one or more digital objects the one or more other digital objects or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment per step of the digital object modification module causes at least in part a rendering of the one or more other digital objects in the UI for causing at least in part an update of the one or more digital objects the one or more functions the at least one augmented reality application or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment as seen in flowchart of the composition the decomposition or a combination thereof of the one or more digital objects may includes at least in part one or more projection operations. In this embodiment per step of the projection module determines a subset of one or more information spaces associated with the at least one augmented reality application. Furthermore per step of the projection module determines the one or more digital objects based at least in part on the subset.

In one embodiment as seen in flowchart of the composition the decomposition or a combination thereof of the one or more digital objects may includes at least in part one or more injection operations. In this embodiment per step of the injection module determines a filtration of the one or more digital objects one or more other digital objects or a combination thereof wherein the one or more other digital objects are determined by one or more projection operations. Furthermore per step of the injection module determines to add the one or more other digital objects to one or more information spaces associated with the at least one augmented reality application based at least in part on the filtration.

Additionally it is noted that the intermediate and the final data computation closures and results from the process described in may be retrieved and or stored in storage in data repository in clouds or a combination thereof.

In step the mixed reality platform determines one or more densities of the one or more requests with respect to one or more geographical boundaries defined by one or more clusters of the one or more digital objects. The mixed reality platform then processes and or facilitates a processing of the one or more densities to cause at least in part a provisioning of one or more computational resources one or more storage resources one or more connectivity resources or a combination thereof across one or more architectural layers of at least one cloud computing infrastructure for delivering the one or more digital objects the at least one mixed reality application or a combination thereof step . In one embodiment the one or more architectural layers include at least in part one or more core content delivery layers one or more regional content delivery layers one or more edge content delivery layers or a combination thereof and wherein the location based data include at least in part one or more map tiles one or more augmented reality tiles or a combination thereof.

In step the mixed reality platform causes at least in part a migration a pre fetching a caching or a combination thereof of the one or more digital objects among the one or more architectural layers based at least in part on the provisioning the one or more densities or a combination thereof.

In step the mixed reality platform determines one or more connectivity types of the one or more connectivity resources used to make the one or more requests. The mixed reality platform then determines which of the one or more architectural layers the one or more computational resources the one or more storage resources the one or more connectivity resources or a combination thereof to provision based at least in part on the one or more connectivity types. In one embodiment the one or more connectivity types include at least in part one or more short range connectivity types one or more medium range connectivity types or a combination thereof. In yet another embodiment the one or more short range connectivity types include at least in part one or more radio frequency memory tags one or more short range wireless radio protocols or a combination thereof and wherein the one or more medium range connectivity types include at least in part one or more cognitive radio protocols.

In step the mixed reality platform determine one or more movements of the one or more clusters over a geographical area based at least in part on the one or more connectivity types. By way of example the one or more requests made over the one or more short range connectivity types are indicative of the one or more clusters being stationary and the one or more requests made over the one or more medium range connectivity types are indicative of the one or more clusters moving.

In step the mixed reality platform determines the one or more requests based on one or more links a among the one or more architectural layers b among one or more clients and the at least one mixed reality application c among the one or more clients and the architectural layers d among the one or more clients and the at least one cloud computing infrastructure or e a combination thereof. In one embodiment the one or more densities are further based at least in part on the one or more links.

In one embodiment as seen in a real time input e.g. a video stream an audio stream one or more still images etc. is captured by the UE and entered UI . The mixed reality platform as described with respect to A and B generates digital objects associated with the input and presents the digital objects in the augmented reality display . The augmented reality display may also represent functions that can be applied on the digital objects. Some of the functions can be determination of points of interest navigation etc. It is noted that the input may be an already recorded media file such as a video file an audio file one or more still images or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment a user of the UE can drag icons representing digital objects on the augmented reality display into one or more launch pads . The dragging is shown by arrows .

In one embodiment a behavioral pattern can be tied to the number of items tapped or dragged via arrows by a user of UE and mixed reality launch pad or matched to the results of a query by the user.

In one embodiment the UI of UE may include free form of input query area a one line search a query area a URL link to number of objects or a combination thereof. A user of UE may want to stick to the country specific device or access extra services for example with Google translation between different languages and based on runtime settings.

In one embodiment upon the determination of the functional elements the projection and injection data including functional elements are dragged to a launch pad area on the UI for reasoning user and mixed realities to digital composition. A launch pad may have the capability of creating and updating digital objects between the UE and the mixed reality platform . Furthermore the launch pad may provide backend support and expose processes associated with clouds to the functional elements if needed.

In one embodiment projection and injection mechanisms consist of a set of actions such as for example selecting the focus point from user or mixed reality display tapping the selected object dragging or moving the object to the launch pad locating the objects from the launch pad or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment a user of the UE can drag icons representing digital objects on the digital display on the augmented reality display or a combination thereof into one or more launch pads . The dragging is shown by arrows . The results from applying the applications APP and APP on object may be presented on the launch pad .

In the embodiment of the APP involves object and the augmented reality object . For example the APP may be a mixed reality game using a real object and an augmented reality object played on the launch pad .

In various embodiments the mixed reality platform may enable the user of UE to modify the size number and location of the digital display the augmented reality display the launch pad or a combination thereof.

The processes described herein for providing seamless interaction in mixed reality may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing seamless interaction in mixed reality. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing seamless interaction in mixed reality. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing seamless interaction in mixed reality is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing seamless interaction in mixed reality to the UEs 

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide seamless interaction in mixed reality. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing seamless interaction in mixed reality. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide seamless interaction in mixed reality. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

