---

title: Apparatus and method of determining a likelihood of task completion from information relating to the reading of RFID tags
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided using RFID devices to assist in determining a likelihood that the performance of a task has been completed. In one implementation, an apparatus comprises a radio frequency identification (RFID) reader and a control circuit operably coupled to the RFID reader. The control circuit is configured to: detect, using at least information received via the RFID reader regarding a reading of one or more RFID tags by the RFID reader, one or more circumstances that evidence a status of interest pertaining to performance of a task of interest; and make a determination that the performance of the task of interest has likely been completed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251488&OS=09251488&RS=09251488
owner: Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
number: 09251488
owner_city: Bentonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131127
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 870 647 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS PERTAINING TO CONVEYING INFORMATION VIA AN RFID TRANSCEIVER and filed Apr. 25 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

This application is also related to co pending and co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 804 393 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS PERTAINING TO RFID TAG BASED USER ASSERTIONS and filed Mar. 14 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

RFID tags are known in the art. These so called tags often assume the form factor of a label or a literal tag but are also sometimes integrated with a host article and or its packaging. RFID tags typically comprise an integrated circuit and one or more antennas. The integrated circuit typically carries out a variety of functions including modulating and demodulating radio frequency signals data storage and data processing. Some integrated circuits are active or self powered in whole or in part while others are passive being completely dependent upon an external power source such as an RFID tag reader to support their occasional functionality.

There are proposals to utilize RFID tags to individually identify individual items. The Electronic Product Code EPC as managed by EPCGlobal Inc. represents one such effort in these regards. EPC based RFID tags each have a unique serial number to thereby uniquely identify each tag and by association each item correlated on a one for one basis with such tags. The corresponding document entitled EPC Radio Frequency Identity Protocols Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz Version 1.0.9 is hereby fully incorporated herein by this reference. 

In addition to reading part or all of the informational contents of an RFID tag an RFID tag reader can also serve to convey information to an RFID tag.

Elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions and or relative positioning of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. Also common but well understood elements that are useful or necessary in a commercially feasible embodiment are often not depicted in order to facilitate a less obstructed view of these various embodiments of the present invention. Certain actions and or steps may be described or depicted in a particular order of occurrence while those skilled in the art will understand that such specificity with respect to sequence is not actually required. The terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary technical meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions by persons skilled in the technical field as set forth above except where different specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein.

Generally speaking pursuant to various embodiments an RFID transceiver and RFID tag reader cooperate to convey information from one to the other. In particular in some embodiments these teachings accommodate the RFID tag reader transmitting information to the RFID transceiver that causes a modification of information presented via the RFID transceiver. By one approach an RFID tag reader detects a circumstance that evidences a particular status as pertains to a particular item of such information in a given RFID transceiver. In such a case these teachings will accommodate using such an RFID tag reader to modify the information at the corresponding RFID transceiver.

By one approach and by way of a non limiting example the aforementioned information comprises a to do list. In this case the aforementioned modification can comprise modifying at least one to do item in that to do list. By one approach the aforementioned detection of a circumstance that evidences a particular status as pertains to a particular item of information comprises at least in part detecting a physical location of the given RFID transceiver. By way of further example that physical location information can be compared to physical locations that correspond to specific to do items in the to do list to identify correlations of interest that evidence suggest or indicate a likelihood that for example attention to and or completion of specific to do items or tasks. In some embodiments information relating to the reading of a particular RFID transceiver by an RFID tag reader e.g. where one or both of the RFID transceiver and RFID tag reader are located at an expected location of task performance can be used to evidence and make a determination that the task has likely been completed by a task resource useful in performing the task.

So configured and by way of example associates for a given enterprise can be provided with extremely inexpensive devices that compatibly interact with the enterprise s RFID tag reader infrastructure to receive and display for example individualized task assignments. More particularly the device and the RFID tag reader infrastructure can cooperate with one another in a manner that permits dynamic and automatic management of those task assignments. For example completed to do items can in many cases be automatically marked as being completed or can otherwise automatically be removed from the displayed list of to do items.

By one approach teachings of some embodiments facilitate determinations as to assigned task completion and or dynamic management of task assignments without a need for direct user input to the device itself. Accordingly the cost and complexity of the device can be reduced further by avoiding a need for buttons switches touch sensitive displays voice recognition or the like. These teachings are also highly scalable and will accommodate a wide variety of application settings information types and volume and end user device configurations.

These and other benefits may become clearer upon making a thorough review and study of the following detailed description. Referring now to the drawings and in particular to a first apparatus configured in accordance with these teachings includes a control circuit that operably couples to an RFID transceiver and a display . Such an apparatus can be sized and have a form factor appropriate to permit the apparatus to be easily carried and or worn by an average person of either gender for example in a pocket or in a holster on a lanyard that is disposed around the user s neck as a wristwatch styled device and so forth . If desired such an apparatus can have other components such as a portable power supply one or more user input interfaces and so forth . For the sake of clarity and a simple example however such additional components are not shown here.

The RFID transceiver is configured to receive information from an RFID reader and to transmit at least a unique identifier such as a unique EPC value to the RFID reader. The present teachings will accommodate a wide range of practices in these regards. For many application settings however it will suffice if the RFID transceiver comprises an EPC GEN2 compliant RFID tag transceiver of which many are well known and understood in the art.

The display can comprise for example any of a variety of flat screen display technologies and or flexible screen display technologies as desired. By one approach the display comprises an electronic paper display such as but not limited to an electrophoretic ink display as is known in the art .

The control circuit can comprise a fixed purpose hard wired platform or can comprise a partially or wholly programmable platform. These architectural options are well known and understood in the art and require no further description here. This control circuit is configured for example by using corresponding programming as will be well understood by those skilled in the art to carry out one or more of the steps actions and or functions described herein. In particular the control circuit is configured to present via the display at least some of the information from the RFID reader as received via the RFID transceiver . The control circuit is also configured to modify at least some of the presented information in response to other items of information from the RFID reader.

As will be described below in more detail the aforementioned information from the RFID reader can comprise at least in part a to do list and hence the control circuit can serve in part to display at least a part of that to do list on the display . In such a case the aforementioned modifications can comprise modifying the to do list as a function at least in part of other information from the RFID reader.

This system control circuit is configured to carry out various activities in support of the present teachings By one approach for example this control circuit is configured via for example appropriate programming to carry out the process shown in .

At the control circuit uses at least one of the RFID tag readers to send information to at least one apparatus as described above. For the sake of a simple illustrative example the remainder of this description shall presume to refer to the receiving apparatus as an RFID tag. Transmitting information such as text from an RFID tag reader to an RFID tag comprises a well understood area of endeavor. Accordingly for the sake of brevity further details in these regards are not provided here.

By one approach this information comprises at least in part a to do list i.e. a list of errands chores or tasks that are assigned or otherwise undertaken to be accomplished typically within some corresponding specified or understood time frame . As noted above the receiving apparatus is configured to present such received information on its display . presents an illustrative example of such a to do list as shown on such a display . In this example each to do item comprises a brief textual task description along with an empty checkbox to denote the corresponding to do item as being not yet accomplished.

So configured the to do items can be uniquely targeted to specific receiving RFID tags by using and leveraging for example the unique EPC value assigned to each such RFID tag in this example and hence to specific individuals who are assigned temporarily or permanently to such tags. In this way if desired each associate at a given facility such as a retail store can be provided with a personal to them to do list of tasks that are specific to their shift location rank status training or the like.

By one optional approach at the control circuit compares the physical location of the given RFID tag to physical locations as correspond to individual information items as comprise the information. This can comprise for example comparing the physical location of a given RFID tag to physical locations as correspond to individual to do items on the aforementioned to do list. There are various known ways by which the physical location of a given RFID tag can be ascertained using for example radio frequency based triangulation accordingly further details in those regards are not provided here.

The control circuit then identifies correlations between the RFID tag s physical location and the physical locations that correspond to the given individual information items. For example as shown in the to do item RESTOCK MUSTARD can have a corresponding physical location within a retail facility i.e. a particular aisle and a particular part of that aisle where mustard is ordinarily stocked and displayed. In such a case this step can comprise identifying when the RFID tag s physical location is the same as the physical location for where mustard is ordinarily stocked and displayed.

At the control circuit seeks to detect one or more circumstances of interest. For example the control circuit can detect when a circumstance that evidences e.g. suggests or indicates a likelihood that a particular status as pertains to a particular item in the information arises and if desires persists for at least some predetermined period of time . By one approach this can comprise detecting that the RFID tag is at the location where mustard is stocked and displayed i.e. the RFID tag is at an expected location for the performance of a task. These teachings will also support the detection of a series of circumstances e.g. occurring at one or more different locations that together evidence the status of interest. For example this process will permit first detecting that the RFID tag is physically proximal to an area in a back store room where mustard is stored and then detecting that the RFID tag is next moved to the aisle and area where mustard if displayed and or that the RFID tag has remained in the aforementioned area for at least a predetermined amount of time that corresponds to a restocking behavior. These events and observations in sequence can together constitute evidence that the status of the to do item RESTOCK MUSTARD is COMPLETED. 

Upon detecting such a circumstance at the control circuit then uses at least one of the plurality of RFID tag readers to modify the information in the given RFID tag. When the foregoing information comprises a to do list as described above this modification can comprise by one approach modifying at least one to do item in the to do list. As exemplified in by one approach such a modification can comprise if desired modifying the corresponding to do item s to indicate completion of the to do item. As illustrated this can comprise placing a marker in the checkbox for the RESTOCK MUSTARD to do item. As another example not illustrated an overstrike line could be placed over part or all of the text portion of the to do item.

These teachings will accommodate a variety of approaches in these regards. For example background shading could serve in these same regards. It would also be possible to change the specifics of the displayed font to indicate completion of the to do item by for example changing the color or grayscale value of the font changing the font from a bold font to an ordinary font by italicizing the font and so forth .

In lieu of the foregoing and as illustrated in these teachings will also accommodate modifying the completed to do item by simply removing the to do item from the presented to do list . By yet another approach the to do item can first be modified as described above to indicate completion and then after some predetermined period of time such as ten seconds one minute five minutes or some other duration of interest the to do item is then removed from the presented to do list .

So configured the user apparatus can maintain a to do list without requiring any specific actions from the user other than attending to the to do items themselves. By one approach then the user apparatus can be completely without any user input interfaces and might simply comprise from the standpoint of a user interface a display that presents the aforementioned to do list both in an original form and as automatically updated from time to time as described herein. Such a device offers a very economical approach to providing associates with a dynamic active to do list to help ensure that associates understand their current responsibilities and to help prompt their attention to those responsibilities.

These teachings are also highly flexible in practice and will accommodate a variety of variations modifications and combinations. As one example in these regards at the control circuit can optionally identify an additional to do item to add to the to do list for a specific apparatus . By one example if desired such an additional to do item can be identified as a function at least in part of one of the other to do items that comprises the to do list for a particular apparatus . As a simple illustrative example in these regards a spill may occur in some portion of a retail facility and a review of present to do items indicates that a particular associate s to do list has them working on a task in an area that is relatively near where the spill occurred.

At then the control circuit can again use one or more of the RFID tag readers to send the additional to do item to one or more corresponding RFID tags to thereby supplement the already supplied to do lists on those apparatuses . As shown in and by way of an illustrative example a new to do item CLEAN UP SPILL IN AISLE as denoted by reference numeral has been received by the apparatus and is now automatically presented on the display as part of the to do list .

In some embodiments it is desired for a task assignment and or task monitoring system or other human task assigner or manager to know whether or not assigned tasks have been completed. For example in a retail store setting a manager would like to know if employees have completed assigned tasks and or are available for additional tasks. In some embodiments an automated system is provided to make such determinations to avoid the need for the manager to have to walk about the store to determine if tasks are completed.

Accordingly in a general sense automated determinations are made as to assigned task completion without a need for user input or user monitoring and management. In such cases it can be determined when a particular task resource associated with the performance of an assigned task is available to be assigned another task. For example in some embodiments information relating to the reading of a particular RFID tag by an RFID tag reader e.g. where one of both of the RFID transceiver and the RFID tag reader are located at an expected location of task performance can be used to evidence a likelihood that the task has been completed by the task resource. For example some embodiments provide an apparatus and corresponding method including a radio frequency identification RFID reader and a control circuit operably coupled to the RFID reader the control circuit being configured to detect using at least information received via the RFID reader regarding a reading of one or more RFID tags by the RFID reader one or more circumstances that evidence a status of interest pertaining to performance of a task of interest and make a determination that the performance of the task of interest has likely been completed.

Referring to a system is shown including an RFID reader which may also be referred to as an RFID tag reader or simply as a reader which is coupled to a control circuit which is coupled to a central system and which is in turn coupled to one or more user devices . As is well known in the art the RFID reader is configured to read any RFID tags which may also be referred to as RFID transceivers such as RFID tag within the operating range of both the RFID reader and the RFID tag . For example as illustrated in in a passive system the RFID reader includes a reader antenna and transmits a modulated radio frequency RF signal to the RFID tag and any other RFID tag within range . The tag antenna receives the RF signal and forms an electric and magnetic field from which the RFID tag draws power for the integrated circuit of the RFID tag . The integrated circuit then causes the RFID tag to modulate a backscatter RF signal back to the RFID tag reader the RF signal containing information encoded in the memory of the RFID tag such as the ID of the RFID tag . The functionality and operation of the reading of tags by the RFID reader and the RFID tag is well known in the art.

In several embodiments a task of interest is to be performed using or by a task resource assigned to or associated with the task of interest. For example a task resource may be a human person such as an employee in a retail store or manufacturing warehouse assigned to perform the task a machine tool or implement e.g. a robotic assembly forklift broom duster mop container etc. that itself performs the task or is used by another person or machine tool or implement to perform the task and so on. In some embodiments one of the RFID reader and the RFID tag are located at an expected location for the performance of the task of interest and the other of the RFID reader and RFID tag is not initially at the expected location. When one or both of the RFID reader and RFID tag are moved relative to each other such that the RFID reader reads the RFID tag information relating to the reading of the RFID tag is used by the control circuit to detect one or more circumstances that evidence a status of interest pertaining to the performance of the task of interest and to make a determination that the performance of the task of interest has likely been completed. In some embodiments the information is an indication that the RFID tag was read at the expected location.

In some embodiments the RFID tag is located at the expected location for the performance of the task and the RFID reader is associated with the task resource and is not initially at the expected location but will be moved to the expected location. illustrate several such embodiments. In other embodiments the RFID reader is located at the expected location for the performance of the task and the RFID tag is associated with the task resource and is not initially at the expected location but will be moved to the expected location. illustrate several such embodiments.

In some cases the fact that the RFID tag has been read by the RFID reader is used to evidence that the performance of the task has likely been completed. For example in a retail setting an employee e.g. a task resource is assigned to clean up a spill e.g. task of interest to be performed in a particular section e.g. an expected location of task performance of the retail store. The employee carries or wears a device including the RFID reader and the particular section of the store contains a particular RFID tag . For example many different known RFID tags would have already been distributed throughout the store and the system assigning the task knows beforehand which RFID tag was associated with or located at the particular section of the store. When the RFID reader and the RFID tag are within range of each other the RFID tag is read by the RFID reader . This information relating to the reading of the RFID tag is transmitted or coupled to the control circuit which uses this information to detect the circumstance of interest e.g. the reading of a particular tag at the known expected location for the performance of the task and accordingly determines that the task of interest has likely been completed. This determination is made in some embodiments by the simple fact that the task resource is brought into proximity of the expected location. In other embodiments this determination may be made after the expiration of a known amount of time after the time that the RFID tag is first read e.g. in order to allow time to complete the task of interest.

In some embodiments the control circuit is integrated with or part of the device or apparatus including the RFID reader as indicated by the dashed box . In such cases it is noted that when the RFID reader and control circuit are integrated a function indicated herein as being performed by the control circuit may also be performed by the RFID reader . In other embodiments the control circuit is separate from and coupled to the RFID reader . For example the control circuit may be located at integrated into or coupled to the central system . In such cases the control circuit is coupled by one or more wired and or wireless communication links using the appropriate communicating devices. Further in some embodiments the central system may be used to manage the assignment of tasks to be performed using the detections and determinations made by the control circuit . For example the central system may maintain a to do list of tasks assigned to a particular task resource and mark a given task as having been completed. Additionally the central system may determine that the task resource is now available for one of more additional tasks to be assigned or associated to the task resource.

The processor and the memory may be integrated together such as in a microcontroller application specification integrated circuit field programmable gate array or other such device or may be separate devices coupled together. The I O interface allows communicational coupling of the control circuit to external components such as the central system . Accordingly the I O interface may include any known wired and or wireless interfacing device circuit and or connecting device. In some embodiments a user interface is included in the control circuit which may be used for user input and or output display. For example the user interface may include any known input devices such a buttons knobs selectors switches keys touch input surfaces and or displays etc. Additionally the user interface may include one or more output display devices such as lights visual indicators display screens etc. to convey information to a user such as a given to do list or a given task to be performed or an indication that the device has determined that a given task has likely been completed. The control circuit is configured to communicate with the reader to control its operation and to receive information from the RFID reader regarding the reading of certain RFID tags. While illustrates the RFID reader being coupled to the processor it is understood that the reader may actually be coupled to a communication bus of the control circuit to which the processor and or memory may also be coupled.

Generally the control circuits and can comprise a fixed purpose hard wired platform or can comprise a partially or wholly programmable platform. These architectural options are well known and understood in the art and require no further description here. This control circuit and are configured for example by using corresponding programming as will be well understood by those skilled in the art to carry out one or more of the steps actions and or functions described herein.

To further illustrate embodiments that detect circumstances of interest and make determinations that the performance of a task has likely been completed reference is now made to several example applications such as illustrated in . For simplicity an RFID tag reader and an RFID tag may be referred to simply as a reader and a tag.

In a given RFID tag is at an expected location for the performance of a task of interest that has been assigned or associated with a task resource . An RFID reader is located with the task resource which is mobile relative to the expected location . The reader pre stores or receives and stores data corresponding to the specific tag such that the reader can determine when it has read the tag . The dashed circle represents the range about the reader that the reader can read the tag due to the configuration and characteristics of the reader and tag . In the tag and the reader are outside of the operational ranges of the devices such that the reader cannot read the tag when the reader transmits interrogation signals . It is noted that the range of both devices should be considered when determining if a tag can be read. For example some readers may interrogate tags in both the near field and far field of RFID communications but the tag is only configured to receive and respond to communications in the near field.

Next the task resource and thus the reader are moved at or proximate to the expected location such that the reader can now read the tag . That is the tag can now respond to the interrogation signal with a response or backscatter signal that is received at the reader . The fact that the given tag has been read by the reader is communicated to the control circuit . In the control circuit may be located at the task resource with the reader or may be located remotely from the task resource e.g. through a wireless communication link at the central system . In either case the control circuit detects using the information received via the RFID reader regarding a reading of the RFID tag by the RFID reader one or more circumstances that evidence a status of interest pertaining to performance of a task of interest and makes a determination that the performance of the task of interest has likely been completed. For example the control circuit uses the fact that the RFID tag was read at the expected location to make a determination that the task has likely been performed. This is based on the assumption that the task was likely performed since the reading of the tag indicates that the task resource was brought into proximity with the expected location . In some embodiments the determination is further based on the elapsing of a known amount of time after the task resource is brought into this proximity. Several embodiments make use of the RFID reader and the RFID tag to detect this proximity to make the determination.

In the example applications of the reader is located at the expected location and the tag is located with the task resource.

For example in an RFID reader is at an expected location for the performance of a task of interest that has been assigned or associated with a task resource . An RFID tag is located with a task resource which is mobile relative to the expected location . The reader pre stores or receives and stores data corresponding to the specific tag such that the reader can determine when it has read the tag . The dashed circle represents the range about the reader that the reader can read the tag due to the configuration and characteristics of the reader and tag . In the tag and the reader are outside of the operational ranges of the devices such that the reader cannot read the tag when the reader transmits interrogation signals . It is noted that the range of both devices should be considered when determining if a tag can be read. For example some readers may interrogate tags in both the near field and far field of RFID communications but the tag is only configured to receive and respond to communications in the near field.

Next the task resource and thus the tag are moved at or proximate to the expected location such that the reader can now read the tag . That is the tag can now receive and respond to the interrogation signal with a response or backscatter signal that is received at the reader . The fact that the given tag has been read by the reader is communicated to the control circuit . In the control circuit may be located at the expected location with the reader or may be located remotely from the expected location e.g. through a wired or wireless communication link at the central system . In either case the control circuit detects using the information received via the RFID reader regarding a reading of the RFID tag by the RFID reader one or more circumstances that evidence a status of interest pertaining to performance of a task of interest and makes a determination that the performance of the task of interest has likely been completed. For example the control circuit uses the fact that the RFID tag was read by the reader at the expected location to make a determination that the task has likely been performed. This is based on the assumption that the task was likely performed since the reading of the tag indicates that the task resource was brought into proximity with the expected location . In some embodiments the determination is further based on the elapsing of a known amount of time after the task resource is brought into this proximity. Several embodiments make use of the RFID reader and the RFID tag to detect this proximity to make the determination.

It is noted that in the discussion of above the various readers pre store or receive and store the IDs of the tag s they should be trying to read. In this way the readers can determine if they have read a particular tag and communicate this information to the control circuit. However in other embodiments the reader does not store this ID information and the reader simply passes all IDs from all read tags to the control circuit. In this case the control circuit pre stores or receives from the central system and stores the IDs of the tag s of interest. In this way the control circuit gets information about the read tags and can determine if the particular tag s have been read by the reader e.g. by matching the received tag IDs to the stored tag IDs.

It is also noted that while the embodiments of are in the context of a task that is itself composed of multiple tasks or subtasks these applications apply as well to a series of tasks e.g. from a to do list that are not necessarily related to each other but are otherwise assigned to or associated with the particular task resource.

In any of the embodiments the RFID reader and the RFID tags may be any known RFID type devices communicating at a variety of available ranges and frequencies. Additionally the RFID devices may be configured as far field and or near field devices. For example an ultra high frequency UHF RFID system includes readers that transmit signaling having a carrier frequency in the range of 860 960 MHz and can effectively read near field RFID devices up to about 1 15 cm away and can read far field RFID tags tags with far field antenna structures at ranges of up to 20 30 feet from the reader. Other RFID systems such as low frequency LF and high frequency HF systems communicate using frequencies of about 125 134 KHz LF and about 13.56 MHz UHF and are suitable for shorter range communications with each of the near and far field regions being closer to the reader.

As is known in the art the near field is the region about the reader antenna where the reader antenna and the tag are coupled within one full wavelength of the carrier wave however in many practical applications the near field is within one half wavelength of the carrier wave. The near field signal decays as the cube of the distance from the reader antenna 1 r . The far field is that region about the reader antenna where the reader antenna and the tag are coupled beyond one full wavelength of the carrier wave. The far field signal decays as the square of the distance from the reader antenna 1 r . Certain types of devices communicate only in the near field and are often referred to as devices that communicate in the near field such as near field communications NFC devices. For example the reader may be a reader that communicates in the near field such as an NFC RFID reader and the tag may be a tag that communicates in the near field such as an NFC RFID tag or simply NFC tag . Near field communications are well understood in the art. Examples of near field communicating devices include devices complying with the Near Field Communication NFC Forum standards High Frequency HF devices Electronic Shelf Labels ESLs and so on. Other examples of devices that communicate in the near field are near field only tags such as those tags described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 286 884 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 286 887 both of which are incorporated herein by reference i.e. tags that lack a far field antenna and magnetically inductively or capacitively couple to a corresponding reader. Devices that communicate in the near field typically have a range of being detected at about 1 2 feet maximum depending on the frequencies used. As used herein the term RFID when referring to a reader and or tag is meant to apply generally to both far field and or near field e.g. NFC or other near field communicating devices.

Another way to view near and far field communications relates to how the reader and the tag are coupled together. The reader and the near field tag communicate through magnetic inductive or capacitive coupling between the reader antenna and the tag antenna typically a near field loop . For example a current is induced in the reader antenna e.g. loop antenna which when brought into close range with the tag antenna loop antenna induces a current in the tag antenna which is modulated according to the data of the tag and induced back to the reader antenna. This type of near field communication is well known in the art.

With far field RFID devices the reader and the tag communicate through the transmission of electromagnetic energy from the reader to the tag which is reflected back as transmitted electromagnetic energy to the reader. Far field communicating devices typically use dipole antennas or other antenna structures capable of transmitting energy and received transmitted energy. This type of far field communication is well known in the art.

It is noted that in some embodiments the read range of a given reader may be limited or changed by reducing or adjusting the power level of signals transmitted by the RFID reader. For example the reduction of the read range results in the detection of a more precise closer location relationship between the reader and the tag than when the RFID reader operates at normal power. For example far field RFID readers at normal operating power levels may be able to read far field RFID tags up to 20 30 feet. For example the transmit power of the reader could be adjusted such that the reader can only read RFID tags at less than the normal range e.g. up to 10 20 feet. This allows for the reading of the tag to occur only when the tag and tag reader are brought into a closer proximity compared to when the reader reads at normal power levels. Conversely the increase of the read range results in the detection of a less precise farther location relationship between the reader and the tag than when the RFID reader operates at normal power. In some embodiments the reader power levels are adjustable e.g. increased and or decreased depending on the precision of location detection needed between the reader and the tag.

Whether the communication is in the near and or far field the illustrations of are intended to apply to one or the other or both. However whether the tags are intended to be read in the near or far field can impact the read range and thus the preferred applications of use of these techniques in determining whether assigned task are likely to be completed using the RFID devices. For example in some embodiments in which tags can only be read in the near field e.g. NFC devices the resolution of the task and the expected locations can be focused relative to tags that are read in the far field. For example in a retail store environment an employee may be assigned to stock a particular section of the store with goods. That task may include replenishing items onto individual shelves or bins of a wall unit or individual bars of a hanging unit. Each of these shelves bins may be considered an expected location for at least partial performance of the task with each shelf bin having a tag or conversely a reader . In this way as the task resource e.g. the employee who is co located e.g. integrated within a handheld tool or a glove etc. with a reader or conversely a tag is brought to the various expected locations shelves bins the reader will be able to read the tag and the control circuit can then detect the circumstance to make the determination that the task or task portion has likely been completed. For example if the user wore a watch having an integrated reader as the user s hand came into proximity of each shelf the shelves having distinct tags the reader would read the tag of each shelf and the system could detect this proximity and thus a circumstance of interest used to make a determination that each shelf was stocked.

On the other hand if the devices are far field devices in some embodiments the ranges of effective tag reading may be increased e.g. up to 20 30 feet or more so that the resolution is broadened relative to if near field communications only were used and the trackable tasks could be different. With some exemplary tasks such devices may not be very effective to track a task resource coming into proximity with individual shelves since the system would initially detect that the resource has come into proximity e.g. up to 20 30 feet of all of the shelves at once not that the resource was within several inches of each particular shelf. In some embodiments the use of far field devices may be better suited to applications in which the spacing between expected task locations is greater. For example an employee is assigned to move certain pallets of goods from one area of a warehouse to another area of the warehouse using a forklift. The task resource may be considered the employee and or the forklift. Far field tags or conversely far field readers are located at each expected location and a far field reader or conversely a far field tag is located at the task resource. As the task resource moves from one area of the warehouse to collect the pallets first expected location the tag is read and the system detects the circumstance and makes the determination that the task of collecting the pallets has likely been completed. Then as the task resource moves to the location of the warehouse that the pallets are intended to go the tag is read and the control circuit detects the circumstance and makes the determination that the task of moving the pallets to the new location has likely been completed. It is noted that the use of far field readers and tags may not only be useful in large area applications. That is the use of far field readers and tags may be useful in some tasks that involve detection in smaller areas particularly when multiple tags are used to distinguish smaller areas and or reader transmit power levels are decreased. Accordingly through these non limiting examples whether far field and or near field devices are used may dictate which tasks will be preferred to be effectively tracked using the RFID technology as well as the preferred relative resolution in the spacing or size of expected locations. For example in some embodiments if the size of the expected location is relatively small or the distance between expected locations is relatively small then in some but not all embodiments it may be preferred to use near field communicating RFID devices as opposed to far field communicating RFID devices.

It is also understood that in some embodiments the expected locations will be task and application specific. For example in a retail store setting example expected locations may include one or more of a merchandizing shelf a merchandizing display a merchandizing wall a merchandizing rack a merchandizing bar a portion of a merchandizing unit a stock container a stock shelf a stock drawer a storage locker a storage container a truck trailer a picking location a riser a display pallet and a stock bin. This is not an exhaustive listing of all such expected locations for a retail store setting and other applications will have many other possible expected locations and tasks.

Additionally as mentioned above a task resource may generally be considered a resource that is assigned to or associated with the performance of at least a portion of a task. A resource may be a living or non living thing Living resources may include human persons employees and so on animals fish etc. useful in performing at least in part a task. Non living resources may be machinery robots tools implements inanimate objects that are either self manipulated or controlled or alternatively manipulated or controlled by a living resource or other non living resource. For example a forklift or a broom may each be considered task resource under control by a human person. In other example a robotic assembly arm under computer control that picks up a first component at a first location moves the first component to a second location and attaches it to a second component may be considered a task resource.

In many of the embodiments an RFID tag is located at one of the task resource and the expected location and the RFID reader is located at the other of the task resource and the expected location. For example in a retail store setting a human person e.g. a task resource may be co located with an RFID reader e.g. by carrying a device e.g. a handheld tool device electronic assembly or phone with an integrated reader wearing a garment jacket glove belt hat helmet etc. with an integrated reader riding a piece of machinery forklift etc. with an integrated reader and so on. The human person is assigned by the system to perform a task that includes one or more expected locations each location would have an RFID tag at that location.

In some embodiments the control circuit stores data that assists in the detection of circumstances and or the making of determinations. For example the control circuit stores the ID for each tag that is associated with the performance of the task and that should be read in order for the task to be considered complete. This data may be transferred to the control circuit e.g. from the central system or may be pre stored in the control circuit. In some embodiments one or more predetermined amounts of time are stored and associated with the task s the tag ID s and or the expected location s. Such amounts of time may correspond to a particular task or task portion such that after expiration or elapsing of the amount of time after a given tag has been read the control circuit makes the determination that the task has likely been completed. The amounts of time may be different depending on the task. For example a greater amount of time may be stored in association with a task that would take a greater length of time to complete once the task resource has arrived at the expected location.

The control circuit may be variously located in different embodiments. In some embodiments the control circuit is located at or integrated with the reader. For example the reader and control circuit may be located in a mobile device that is configured to move with the task resource. In other embodiments the control circuit is at a location remote from the reader. For example the control circuit is integrated with or coupled to the central system. In such cases the control circuit is communicationally coupled to the reader using one or more wired or wireless communication links.

Reference is now made to the flow diagram of which illustrates a process occurring at a control circuit coupled to at least one RFID reader in accordance with several embodiments. The process of may be performed by one or more of the systems and applications described herein.

In step the control circuit uses or is configured to use at least information received via the RFID reader regarding a reading of one or more RFID tags by the RFID reader to detect one or more circumstances that evidence a status of interest pertaining to performance of a task of interest. In some embodiments the status of interest includes whether or not the performance of the task of interest has likely been completed. In some embodiments the one or more circumstances detected relate to the detection that the one or more RFID tags have been brought into proximity with the RFID reader for example such that the RFID reader can read one or more of the RFID tags. For example the information used in the detection may include an indication that at least one of the one or more RFID tags were read by the RFID reader at a first location that is an expected location for the performance of the task. Such embodiments are described in more detail with reference to .

In some embodiments the one or more circumstances detected relate to the detection of the location of the one or more RFID tags from information from one or more RFID readers. For example the information used in the detection may include information from the RFID reader useful to confirm that the one or more RFID tags are located at the first location that is the expected location for the performance of the task. For example information from multiple RFID readers may be used by the control circuit to determine a relative location of the one or more RFID tags e.g. by triangulating the position . Such embodiments are described in more detail with reference to .

Generally whether an RFID tag is read by the reader to detect location or whether the RFID tag location is determined the detected circumstance is that one of the RFID tag s or the RFID reader s has been detected to be at one or more expected locations associated with the performance of the task or task portion . Generally the expected location for the performance of the task may be any location such as described herein. Further in some embodiments the task of interest is assigned or associated with a task resource that is responsible for or used in the performance of the task. The task resource may be any task resource described herein. In some embodiments one of the RFID reader and the one or more RFID tags is assigned to the task resource. For example in some embodiments the RFID reader is located proximate to the expected location and the one or more RFID tags are located with the task resource. Conversely in another example in some embodiments the RFID reader is located with the task resource and the one or more RFID tags are located proximate to the expected location.

Then in step the control circuit makes or is configured to make a determination that the performance of the task of interest has likely been completed. This may be accomplished in many ways. For example the control circuit may make this determination simply by detecting the one or more circumstances. For example in embodiments where information regarding the reading of the one or more RFID tags by the RFID reader is used to detect the circumstance and where this reading indicates that the RFID reader and the one or more RFID tags are at the expected location for the performance of the task then the control circuit determines that the task has likely been performed. Generally this follows from the assumption that if the task resource is at the location that is expected for the performance of the task that the task has likely been performed.

In some embodiments the determination is made after the elapsing of a predetermined amount of time after the one or more circumstances have been detected. This predetermined amount of time may be stored in the control circuit and may correspond to the task of interest. For example the amount of time may account for the time generally needed for the task to be performed once the task resource is at the expected location for the performance of the task. It is understood that different tasks may require a different amount of time to be completed. Accordingly in some embodiments the control circuit makes the determination that the task has likely been performed after the elapsing of a predetermined amount of time after the one or more circumstances have been detected.

It is noted that the RFID readers and RFID tags may be any of the RFID devices described herein. For example in some embodiments the one or more RFID tags each comprise tags that communicate in the near field e.g. NFC tags and the RFID reader is configured to read the one or more near field communication tags. In another example in some embodiments the one or more RFID tags each comprise far field communication tags and the RFID reader is configured to read the one or more far field communication tags.

Next once the determination has been made the control circuit may utilize this information is many ways. For example in step the control circuit performs or is configured to perform one or more optional steps described below.

In one optional step the control circuit outputs for display an indication that the performance of the task has been completed step . Such display may be made at the user interface of the control circuit or transmitted for display to a central system or to a user device coupled to the control circuit or the central system. This may be useful for an automated task monitoring system or other human users non automated human task assigners or managers to view that a given assigned task has likely been completed. This may then indicate that the task resource is available for another task.

In another optional step the control circuit outputs an indication that a task resource associated with performance of the task is available for another task step . Again the indication may be presented to an automated task monitoring assigning system or other human users to view that a given assigned task has likely been completed. This may then facilitate the assignment of the task resource to another task.

In another optional step the control circuit modifies a to do list of tasks to be performed step . For example the control circuit may remove a given to do item on a to do list that corresponds to the task of interest as having been completed e.g. see . In another example the control circuit characterizes a given to do item on the to do list that corresponds to the task of interest as having been completed e.g. see .

In another optional step the control circuit transmits the determination that the performance of the task has likely been completed to a central task management computer system step . For example this information may then be used by the computer system to indicate completion of the task and assign new tasks to the user. It may also be used so that human users may view that the task has been completed and assign new tasks to the task resource. For example users may use user devices to log into or access the information from the central system to view and assign tasks to task resources.

It is noted that the process of may be used to track the progress of one or more tasks of interest whether they are each single unrelated tasks or whether they are multiple tasks task portions or sub tasks of a larger task. In such cases the task of interest involves multiple tasks occurring at multiple expected locations. In some embodiments the information used to detect the circumstance of interest includes an indication that at least another of the one or more RFID tags were read by the RFID reader at at least another location the at least another location being an expected other location for the performance of at least a portion of the task. For example in some cases the RFID reader is associated or located with the task resource which moves from location to location with at least one RFID tag at each location. In other embodiments the detection of the one or more circumstances that evidence the status of the task may use at least information received via the RFID reader regarding the reading of the one or more RFID tags and additional information received via another RFID reader regarding the reading of the one or more RFID tags by the other RFID reader. The additional information may include an indication that the at least one of the one or more RFID tags were read by the other RFID reader at a second location the second location being a second expected location for the performance of at least a portion of the task of interest. For example in some cases the one or more RFID tags are associated or located with the task resource which moves from location to location with at least one RFID reader at each location.

The process of may be performed by any of the control circuits describe herein or other control circuits whether embodied as controllers computer devices computer systems etc. . Additionally the control circuit may be embodied as a mobile device that moves with task resource. For example the control circuit may be implemented within or attached to an article of clothing phone or other mobile electronic device.

Reference is now made to the flow diagram of which illustrates other embodiments of a process occurring at a control circuit coupled to at least one RFID reader. The process of may be performed by one or more of the systems and applications described herein.

In step the control circuit receives or is configured to receive an indication that a first RFID tag was read by the RFID reader at a first location the first location being an expected location for performance of a first task. In step the control circuit makes or is configured to make a determination that the performance of the first task has likely been completed. Next the control circuit performs or is configured to perform one or more optional steps similar to those discussed in step . Generally the steps and involve any of the variations and examples as described in connection with or as otherwise described herein.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of other modifications alterations and combinations can also be made with respect to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention and that such modifications alterations and combinations are to be viewed as being within the ambit of the inventive concept. As a specific illustrative example in these regards the apparatus can be configured to sound an audible alert upon receiving a to do list upon receiving a modification to an existing to do item and or upon receiving a supplemental to do item. As another illustrative example these teachings will readily accommodate having the control circuit transmit information to the apparatus to thereby cause the latter to present a to do list having one or more redacted to do items even if the corresponding associate did not themselves attend to the redacted to do items.

