---

title: Taxel-addressable matrix of vertical nanowire piezotronic transistors
abstract: A tactile sensing matrix includes a substrate, a first plurality of elongated electrode structures, a plurality of vertically aligned piezoelectric members, an insulating layer infused into the piezoelectric members and a second plurality of elongated electrode structures. The first plurality of elongated electrode structures is disposed on the substrate along a first orientation. The vertically aligned piezoelectric members is disposed on the first plurality of elongated electrode structures and form a matrix having columns of piezoelectric members disposed along the first orientation and rows of piezoelectric members disposed along a second orientation that is transverse to the first orientation. The second plurality of elongated electrode structures is disposed on the insulating layer along the second orientation. The elongated electrode structures form a Schottky contact with the piezoelectric members. When pressure is applied to the piezoelectric members, current flow therethrough is modulated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09024395&OS=09024395&RS=09024395
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09024395
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130906
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 698 156 filed Sep. 7 2012 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DE FG02 07ER 46394 awarded by the Department of Energy and under agreement No. CMMI 094 6418 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Large scale integration of miniscule functional components on mechanically deformable and optically transparent substrates may lead to novel applications in mechanosensational human electronics interfacing sensing and energy harvesting. Taxel tactile pixel array based pressure sensors have been used for mimicking tactile sensing capabilities of human skin in which electronic components like traditional field effect transistors FETs act as read out elements for detecting pressure induced property change in the pressure sensitive media.

Some systems attempt to minimize the effect of substrate strain on performance of these electronic components while preserving the deformability of the substrate employing flexible electronics. Existing flexible electronic pressure sensing systems require complicated system integration of heterogeneous components but also lack proficiency in directly interfacing electronics with mechanical actions in an active way so that mechanical straining can be utilized to generate new electronic control feedback. Also existing taxel sizes can be hundreds of microns to even tens of millimeters severely limiting device density and spatial resolution.

Therefore there is a need for a high resolution taxel array pressure sensor that interfaces well with electronic components.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a method of making a tactile sensing matrix in which a substrate is generated. A first plurality of elongated electrodes is deposited spaced apart on the substrate along a first orientation. A first plurality of conductive shapes is deposited onto each of the first plurality of elongated electrodes spaced apart so that the conductive shapes form a matrix including columns aligned with the first orientation and rows that are transverse to the first orientation. A vertically aligned piezoelectric member is generated at each of the first plurality of conductive shapes to form a plurality of piezoelectric members. The piezoelectric members include a material that forms a Schottky contact with the first plurality of conductive shapes. A second plurality of conductive shapes is deposited each on a different piezoelectric member. The second plurality of conductive shapes includes a material that forms a Schottky contact with the piezoelectric member. An insulating layer is infused into the piezoelectric members. A second plurality of elongated electrodes is deposited each along a different row of the matrix so that each of the second plurality of elongated electrodes is in electrical communication with all of the second plurality of conductive shapes of a different row of piezoelectric members. When pressure is applied to selected ones of the plurality of vertically aligned piezoelectric members current flow through the selected ones of the plurality of vertically aligned piezoelectric members is modulated.

In another aspect the invention is a tactile sensing matrix that includes a substrate a first plurality of elongated electrode structures a plurality of vertically aligned piezoelectric members an insulating layer and a second plurality of elongated electrode structures. The first plurality of elongated electrode structures is spaced apart and disposed on the substrate along a first orientation. The plurality of vertically aligned piezoelectric members is disposed on each of the first plurality of elongated electrode structures. The piezoelectric members are spaced apart so as to form a matrix both along the first plurality elongated electrode structures and across the first plurality elongated electrode structures. The matrix has columns of piezoelectric members disposed along the first orientation and rows of piezoelectric members disposed along a second orientation that is transverse to the first orientation. The insulating layer is infused into the piezoelectric members. The second plurality of elongated electrode structures is spaced apart and disposed on the insulating layer along the second orientation. The first plurality of elongated electrode structures include a material selected so that each of the first plurality of elongated electrode structures forms a Schottky contact with each piezoelectric member in a different column of piezoelectric members. The second plurality of elongated electrode structures includes a material selected so that each of the second plurality of elongated electrode structures forms a Schottky contact with each piezoelectric member in a different row of piezoelectric members. When pressure is applied to selected ones of the plurality of vertically aligned piezoelectric members current flow through the selected ones of the plurality of vertically aligned piezoelectric members is modulated.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

The following patents issued to Wang et al. disclose methods of making piezoelectric nanostructures and are incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of disclosing piezoelectric nanostructure growth methods U.S. Pat. No. 7 351 607 issued on Apr. 1 2008 U.S. Pat. No. 7 982 370 issued on Jul. 19 2011 U.S. Pat. No. 7 898 156 issued on Mar. 1 2011 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 039 834 issued on Oct. 18 2011. The following patent applications filed by Wang et al. disclose methods of making piezoelectric nanostructures and are incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of disclosing piezoelectric nanostructure growth methods Ser. No. 13 091 855 filed on Apr. 21 2011 and Ser. No. 13 473 867 filed May 17 2012.

As shown in one embodiment of a tactile sensing matrix includes a substrate portion onto which is deposited a thin SiOlayer . Disposed on the SiOlayer is a plurality of electrodes laid out in columns. In one embodiment the electrodes include thin Cr strips applied to the SiOlayer and ITO strips applied to the Cr strips which improve adhesion of the ITO to the SiOlayer . Since ITO is transparent use of ITO electrodes allows for a transparent device. A plurality of spaced apart conductive shapes such as Au squares is applied to the electrodes to form a matrix with rows and columns. If a non transparent device is desired the electrodes can comprise a conductor such as Au instead of ITO and separate conductive shapes are not necessary. 

Vertically aligned semiconductor piezoelectric members are applied to the conductive shapes . In one example the piezoelectric members include dense bundles of ZnO nanowires. Other embodiments can include ZnO ZnS GaN GaAs and other piezoelectric semiconductors in the form of dense bundles of nanowires discrete nanowires and even thin films. The conductive shapes form a Schottky contact with the piezoelectric members .

An insulating layer such as SU 8 is infused into the piezoelectric members to provide support thereto. The top of the insulating layer is etched away to expose the tops of the piezoelectric members and a second plurality of conductive shapes such as Au squares is applied to the tops of the piezoelectric members also forming Schottky contacts with the piezoelectric members . A second plurality of electrodes is placed on the conductive shapes along different rows of the matrix. A protective cover such as parylene can then be applied to the entire device.

When vertical force is applied to individual piezoelectric members current flowing through the taxel corresponding piezoelectric members is modulated. By scanning individual rows of top electrodes for each column of bottom electrodes the state of individual taxels may be sensed.

This method resulted in a 3D array integration of vertical nanowire piezotronic transistors including 92 92 taxels in 1 cm2 with 234 taxels per inch PPI as active taxel addressable pressure sensor matrix for tactile imaging. The fabricated sensors were capable of mapping spatial profiles of small pressure changes 

Strain gated piezotronic transistor operates based on modulation of local contact characteristics and charge carrier transport by strain induced ionic polarization charges at the interface of metal semiconductor contact which is the fundamental of piezotronics. The basic structure of a strain gated vertical piezotronic transistor SGVPT includes one or multiple vertically grown ZnO nanowires in contact with bottom and top electrodes. A ZnO nanowire experiences strain when subjected to external mechanical deformation with piezopotential induced inside the nanowire due to polarization of non mobile ions. The local contact profile and carrier transport across the Schottky barrier formed between ZnO nanowire and metal electrodes can be effectively controlled by the polarization charge induced potential. Electrical characteristics of the two terminal SGVPT are therefore modulated by external mechanical actions induced strain which essentially functions as a gate signal for controlling carrier transport in SGVPT.

By combining the patterned in place growth of vertically aligned ZnO nanowires with state of the art micro fabrication techniques large scale integration of SGVPT array can be obtained. The active array of SGVPTs was sandwiched between the top and bottom Indium Tin Oxide ITO electrodes which were aligned in orthogonal cross bar configurations. A thin layer of Au was deposited between the top bottom surfaces of ZnO nanowires and top bottom ITO electrodes respectively forming Schottky contacts with ZnO nanowires. A thin layer of Parylene C 1 m was conformally coated on the SGVPT device as the moisture corrosive barrier. Well aligned ZnO nanowires synthesized by low temperature hydrothermal method functioned as the active channel material of SGVPT and helped reduce the stochastic taxel to taxel variation to ensure uniform device performance.

The piezotronic effect differs from the piezoresistive effect in that the latter results from change in band gap charge carrier density or density of states in the conduction band of the strained semiconductor material that functions as a scalar resistor while the piezotronic effect arises due to the polarization of ions in the crystal and can directly affect the local contacts asymmetrically. This means that the piezoresistive effect is a symmetric volume effect without polarity while piezotronic effect is an interface effect that asymmetrically modulates local contacts at different terminals of the device due to the polarity of the piezopotential. The magnitude and polarity of piezopotential within corresponding SGVPT changes according to the local stress force resulting in a direct control over local Schottky barrier heights SBHs and hence the corresponding conducting characteristics of the SGVPT by induced strain. The dominant mechanism for the transport property of SGVPT is the piezotronic effect rather than the piezoresistance effect. By monitoring the output current of each independently functioning SGVPT in the matrix spatial profile of applied pressure can be readily imaged by multiplexed addressing all of the taxels.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

