---

title: System and methods for reviewing user generated content and providing authorization
abstract: Systems and methods for providing authorization of user-generated content are described, including a computer-implemented method for providing content by a first user is provided, including receiving, by one or more computing devices, content from the first user, analyzing context data associated with the content received from the first user, providing the content received from the first user to an authorizer based on a result of the analyzing the context data associated with the content, and providing the content of the first user to a second user in response to receiving an authorization from the authorizer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282087&OS=09282087&RS=09282087
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09282087
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130715
---
Aspects of the example implementations relate to providing controls for sharing user generated content and more specifically allowing a third party to review and authorize user generated content prior to sharing.

Private individuals as wells as public individuals such as celebrities and politicians and companies have increasingly used blogs or other social networks to communicate with the world. However with increased usage of such social networks to communicate comes an increased likelihood that something inappropriate or embarrassing may be posted inadvertently or unintentionally. Users of social networks must rely on conscious self review to avoid embarrassing or inappropriate content from being shared.

The subject matter discussed herein relates generally to online services and more particularly to allowing a user to protect themselves from inadvertent or unintentional sharing of content.

According to an aspect a computer implemented method for providing content by a first user is provided including receiving by one or more computing devices content from the first user analyzing context data associated with the content received from the first user providing the content received from the first user to an authorizer based on a result of the analyzing the context data associated with the content and providing the content of the first user to a second user in response to receiving an authorization from the authorizer.

According to another aspect a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions is provided the instructions including receiving by one or more computing devices content from the first user analyzing context data associated with the content received from the first user providing the content received from the first user to an authorizer based on a result of the analyzing the context data associated with the content and providing the content of the first user to a second user in response to receiving an authorization from the authorizer.

According to another aspect at least one computing device comprising storage and a processor is provided the at least one computing device configured to perform receiving by one or more computing devices content from the first user analyzing context data associated with the content received from the first user providing the content received from the first user to an authorizer based on a result of the analyzing the context data associated with the content and providing the content of the first user to a second user in response to receiving an authorization from the authorizer.

In addition to a method as described above the implementations may include a device a system and or a computer readable medium but are not limited thereto.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example implementations. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. The examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for filtering content and providing a mechanism to obtain approval of posting from a third party.

Service providers may allow users to generate and share content with other users. Additionally service providers may also detect the subject matter and or language of the user content if the user decides to allow the service provider to perform the detection. In some example implementations service providers may provide mechanisms to allow a user to optionally define rules to be identify and forward content to an approver prior to distributing to one or more other users based on the subject matter or timing of the posting.

For example a mechanism may be implemented to allow a Corporate Executive User A who chooses to employ the mechanism to specify that User A s content should be reviewed by User A s attorney prior to being distributed to the one or more shareholders User B based on keywords or subjects identified in the content e.g. Rule 1 Forward all content relating to patents to my attorney .

In some other example implementations a Celebrity User C who chooses to employ the example implementation may specify that User C s content should be forwarded to User C s Public Relations Manager if posted late at night or early in the morning prior to being distributed to one or more of User C s fans User D e.g. Rule 2 Forward all content posted between 11 00 pm and 7 00 am to my agent .

In some example implementations a user may be given the option and capability to specify to forward all content to an authorizer if biometric data or biological information associated with the user indicates a physical condition. For example a User E may voluntarily specify that content should be forwarded to a reviewer such as a public spokesman attorney or agent if biological or biometric information obtained from User E has a biometric level above a certain threshold e.g. Rule 3 Forward all content posted when my blood glucose exceeds greater than X mg dl to my spokesman . Of course other examples of less than optimal physical conditions could be used instead of blood glucose level including presence of excessive tiredness medicines or other substances abnormal body chemistry etc. The user may always determine whether he or she wishes to participate in the example implementation.

Additionally one or more of the above discussed example rules may be combined. For example a User may choose to specify that all content having a certain subject matter posted late at night should be forwarded to the User s attorney if the biological information indicates a less than optimal physical condition e.g. Rule 4 Forward all content relating to my legal proceedings posted after 9 00 pm to my attorney if my blood glucose exceeds greater than X indicative of a potential fatigue as well as a potential physiological measurement of body condition .

Once the content is generated the content is submitted to a publication system of the service provider as represented by arrow B. The submission may take the form of an email an FTP transfer an upload via a website or any other form of data transfer as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

As represented by arrow C if the user has voluntarily opted to enable filtering the publication system forwards the content to a filtering system to determine if the content should be published or distributed to one or more other users User . The filter system makes a determination based on one or more rules defined by User whether the content should be distributed or published immediately or submitted to an authorizer for review prior to publication distribution. The determination of the filter system is discussed in greater detail below with respect to .

As represented by arrows D and E if the filter system determines that the content should be reviewed prior to publication distribution a message is sent to the authorizer along with a copy of or link to the content . The rules optionally defined by User may identify a single authorizer for all content or different authorizers based on the subject matter or other data associated with the content .

The rules may be voluntarily created by the user or other party via user interface e.g. rule generator with drop down boxes or the like as would be understood by those skilled in the art. In some implementations the user may also modify add or delete rules after generation and further may suspend or terminate operation of the rules even in the case that another party generates the rules for the user. In some implementations the user may be prevented from modifying adding or deleting rules after generation when the rules were optionally generated by another party other than the user.

As represented by arrow F after the Authorizer has reviewed the content the Authorizer may issue a reply indicating approval of the content with or without content edits or revisions.

As represented by arrow G the Filter system forwards the content with any edits revisions the Authorizer has provided to the Publication System for publication distribution. In some example implementations the filter system may also forward the content to the publication system if a reply from the Authorizer is not received within a time frame specified by User in the Rules . Additionally the user may also override the Filter system and have the content published or distributed without review by the authorizer.

Once the Publication System receives the reply from the Filter system the Publication system distributes or publishes the content with any edits or revisions included in the reply received from the Filter system to one or more other users User .

If the first user has opted to enable the filtering functionality the content received from the first user is analyzed to determine whether review and approval by an authorizer such as Authorizer is required prior to publication or distribution to other users in . In some example implementations the analysis is performed based on one or more rules previously defined by the first user. In some implementations the analysis may alternatively or additionally be performed based on default rules defined by the service provider or a third party. For example the first user may be a Chief Executive Officer CEO of a company and the rules may be defined by the Public Relations Department or Legal Department rather than the CEO. In ether scenario the user or third party may elect to disable the filtering functionality at any time.

In the content received from the first user may be forwarded to the authorizer based on the analysis of the content in and an authorization or reply may be received from the authorizer in if the first user has enabled the filtering functionality. Example implementations of the content analysis content forwarding and authorization are discussed in greater detail below.

Based on the reply or authorization received from the authorizer the content is provided distributed or published to one or more other users e.g. second user s . Of course even if the authorizer does not authorize publication or distribution the first user may override the filtering functionality. The content may be provided either directly to the second user s directly such as via an e mail instant message or other form of direct person to person transfer or indirectly such as posted on a website social media page etc. accessible by the second user s . Once the content has been provided to the one or more second users in the process terminates.

In the process of content is received from the first user in which is analogous to of . The content received from the first user can include text data image data video data or any other data that the first user would like to publish or distribute to other users. The content may be an email website post social media post blog entry or any other form of content distribution or publication as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art. The content may be received by email FTP transfer website upload or by any other form of data transfer as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

Once the content is received from the first user the content is analyzed in to determine if the content contains keywords or subject matter that has previously been flagged as requiring review or authorization prior to publication or distribution if the first user has chosen to enable the filtering functionality. The subject matter or keywords contained in the content may be analyzed using image recognition optical character recognition OCR or any other data recognition techniques as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

The determination of content flagged for review may be based on rules created or defined by the first user in some example implementations. Further the determination of content flagged for review may also be based on rules defined or created by the service provider or third parties. Additionally the first user retains the ability to modify add delete or override the rules. For example the first user may be a CEO of a company and the rules may be defined by the Public Relations Department or Legal Department rather than the CEO. In the foregoing examples the rules are generated based on a user authorization.

A user may determine at any time that he or she no longer wishes to employ one or more of the rules and may provide an indication therefor e.g. access a user interface to terminate or suspend one or more of the generated rules .

If the content is determined to contain subject matter or keywords previously flagged for review in YES the content is forwarded to an authorizer for review in . The content review by the authorizer is discussed in more detail below.

Conversely if the content is determined to not contain subject matter or keywords previously flagged for review in NO the content is analyzed to determine if the content contains context information previously flagged for review in . The context analysis in may include analysis of context data associated with the content including for example time or date of content generation or target audience and or the user s geographic and or semantic location when generating the content to determine if the context of the content generation has previously been flagged for review.

For example if the content has been generated late at night early in the morning or on holidays or weekends the context information may indicate circumstances surrounding the content generation that require review prior to publication or generation. This analysis may be performed based on one or more rules previously defined by one or more of the first user the service provider or a third party.

If the context information associated with the content is determined to not include any information previously flagged for review in NO the content may be provided e.g. published or distributed to one or more second users in . The content may be provided either directly to the second user s directly such as via an e mail instant message or other form of direct person to person transfer or indirectly such as posted on a website social media page etc. accessible by the second user s .

Conversely if the context information associated with the content is determined to include any information previously flagged for review in YES the content is forwarded to the authorizer for review in . The content may be sent directly to the authorizer or a message may be sent to the authorizer providing the authorizer with a link that authorizer may use to view the content.

After the content is forwarded to the authorizer in a determination may be made to determine if a reply has been received from the authorizer in . If an authorization reply has been received in YES the process proceeds to where it is determined whether the authorizer has approved the content for distribution or publication. If the authorization reply indicates that the content is approved for publication in the content is provided published distributed to one or more second users in .

The review and or authorization by the authorizer may vary based on situation and usage. For example in a simple informal scenario the content is provided to the authorizer as is and is approved or not approved based on the authorizer s subjective decision e.g. by selecting a respective UI element . In a more complex formal scenario the authorization process might be adapted to an existing e.g. public relations or legal review process that specifies certain steps checks and the content be augmented with additional information based on relevant policies or guidelines. In some implementations the authorization review process includes a human authorizer that reviews and makes an authorization decision. In some embodiments the review and authorization may be performed through an automated process without human intervention based on filtering and authorizing logic including an automated approval e.g. in case that the filter rules do not trigger .

In some implementations the authorization reply may also include edits or revisions of the content that are made by the Authorizer prior to the content being provided to the one or more second users. The content may be provided either directly to the second user s directly such as via an e mail instant message or other form of direct person to person transfer or indirectly such as posted on a website social media page etc. accessible by the second user s . Once the content has been provided to the one or more second users in the process terminates.

In some example implementations the content may be returned to the first user in for editing or revision if the content was not approved by the authorizer in NO . In other words if the authorizer rejects the content for publication or distribution based on the operations of the content may be returned to the first user for editing or revision. Once the content has been returned to the first user in the process is ended. Thus depending on content e.g. keywords form context e.g. target audience access restrictions and configured rules content is sent to an authorizer for review. Of course the first user may override the authorizer s reply and proceed with publication if the authorizer does not authorize publication.

In some example implementations if it is determined in that an authorization reply has not been received from the authorizer a determination may be made whether a threshold amount of time defined in one or more of the rules for example has elapsed since the content was forwarded to the authorizer in . If it is determined that the threshold amount of time has not elapsed since the content was forwarded to the authorizer in NO the process returns to to again determine if an authorization reply has been received.

Conversely if it is determined that the threshold amount of time has elapsed since the content was forwarded to the authorizer in YES the content may be provided published or distributed to the one or more second users in . In other words if the authorizer does not reply to the content being forwarded within a certain amount of time the content may be automatically provided published distributed to the one or more second users. Once the content has been provided to the one or more second users in the process terminates.

In the process of content is received from the first user in which is analogous to operation of . The content received from the first user can include text data image data video data or any other data that the first user would like to publish or distribute to other users. The content may be an email website post social media post blog entry or any other form of content distribution or publication as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art. The content may be received by email FTP transfer website upload or by any other form of data transfer as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art. Additionally as explained below the content may also include biometric information.

Once the content is received from the first user the content is analyzed in to determine if the content includes biometric data indicating the physiological condition of the user at the time the content was generated if the user has elected to enable the filtering functionality. If the first user determines that he or she wishes to do so biometric data may be collected at the time the content is captured using one or more sensors communicatively coupled to a device used by the first user to generate the content such that the captured biometric data is associated with the generated content when the content is generated. Biometric data may include for example brain activity information blood chemistry information blood pressure information or any other biological information that may be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art. Collection of the first user s biometric information as authorized by the first user is discussed in greater detail below with respect to .

In some example implementations if it is determined in that the content does not include biometric information the content may be automatically forwarded to the authorizer for review in . In other words if the biometric information used to determine the first user s physiological condition at the time the content was generated is not present the content may be forwarded to the authorizer for review. Optionally prior to forwarding to the authorizer e.g. before operation and after operation operation and operation of as described may be performed so as to provide for processing based on keyword and context as well as biometric information in the content.

Conversely if biometric information indicating the first user s physiological condition when the content was generated is included in the content the biometric information is analyzed in to determine whether the first user s physiological condition at the time the content was generated exceeds a certain threshold. As discussed in more detail with respect to below in some example implementations the user s physical condition may be determined by using measured biometric information such as blood pressure signals brain wave signals intravenous measurement signals etc. and applying a physiological model based on the measured biometric information.

For example brain wave signals may be used by a physiological model to identify indicators of sleepy brain activity blood pressure signals may be used by the physiological model to identify indicators of high anxiety and the intravenous measurements may be used by the physiological model to identify indicators of impairment fatigue or other condition that the user might identify as being associated with having content reviewed by the authorizer.

The threshold physiological condition may be specified in one or more rules provided by the first user the service provider or a third party. As explained above the user may terminate or suspend one or more of the rules e.g. by accessing a user interface.

For example a first user may set a rule to process postings made while sleepy highly anxious or chemically impaired e.g. Send Content for review if sleepy anxious or affected by a blood toxicant . Optionally prior to forwarding to the authorizer e.g. before operation and after operation operation and operation of as described may be performed so as to provide for processing based on keyword and context as well as biometric information in the content.

If the biometric information indicates that the first user had a physical condition that was not below the threshold in NO the content may be provided published or distributed to one or more second users in . The content may be provided either directly to the second user s directly such as via an e mail instant message or other form of direct person to person transfer or indirectly such as posted on a website social media page etc. accessible by the second user s .

Conversely if the biometric information indicates that the first user had a physical condition that was below the threshold in YES the content is forwarded to the authorizer for review in . The content may be sent directly to the authorizer or a message may be sent to the authorizer providing the authorizer with a link that authorizer may use to view the content.

After the content is forwarded to the authorizer in a determination may be made to determine if a reply has been received from the authorizer in . If an authorization reply has been received in YES the process proceeds to where it is determined whether the authorizer has approved the content for distribution or publication. If the authorization reply indicates that the content is approved for publication in the content is provided published distributed to one or more second users in .

In some example implementations the authorization reply may also include edits or revisions of the content that are made by the authorizer prior to the content being provided to the one or more second users. The content may be provided either directly to the second user s directly such as via an e mail instant message or other form of direct person to person transfer or indirectly such as posted on a website social media page etc. accessible by the second user s . Once the content has been provided to the one or more second users in the process terminates.

In some example implementations the content may be returned to the first user in for editing or revision if the content was not approved by the authorizer in NO . In other words if the authorizer rejects the content for publication or distribution the content may be returned to the first user for editing or revision. Once the content has been returned to the first user in the process is ended. Depending on content e.g. keywords form context e.g. target audience access restrictions and configured rules content is sent to an authorizer for review. Of course the first user may override the authorizer s reply and proceed with publication if the authorizer does not authorize publication.

In some implementations if it is determined in that an authorization reply has not been received from the authorizer a determination may be made whether a threshold amount of time defined in one or more of the rules for example has elapsed since the content was forwarded to the authorizer in . If it is determined that the threshold amount of time has not elapsed since the content was forwarded to the authorizer in NO the process returns to to again determine if an authorization reply has been received.

Conversely if it is determined that the threshold amount of time has elapsed since the content was forwarded to the authorizer in YES the content may be provided published or distributed to the one or more second users in . In other words if the authorizer does not reply to the content being forwarded within a certain amount of time the content may be automatically provided published distributed to the one or more second users. Once the content has been provided to the one or more second users in the process terminates.

For example signal may be a signal that is sensed by an external sensor that does not contact the body e.g. a sensed brain wave signal representative of the first user s brain waves which may be used to identify brain activity indicators such as excessive sleepiness . Further remote temperature sensors may sense a temperature of the entire body as well as regional temperature indications. Other sensors capable of detecting a relevant body condition without contact with the body e.g. ambient as known in the art may be substituted therefor or used in conjunction with any of the sensing devices disclosed herein.

Additionally signal may be a signal that is sensed by an external sensor that does contact the body e.g. thermometer indicative of body temperature or blood pressure signal representative of the first user s blood pressure which may be used to identify the first user s anxiety level . For example but not by way of limitation the external sensor that contacts the body may include but is not limited to a stand alone sensor a sensor incorporated into other clothing or other accessory that directly or indirectly contacts the body e.g. clothing hat belt glasses shoes wristwatch jewelry as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

Further signal may be a signal that is representative of internal e.g. intravenous measurements such as blood chemistry etc. from the first user which may be used to identify any foreign substances or identify the first user s level of impairment. For example but not by way of limitation such a signal may be derived from a device capable of such measurement e.g. blood monitor as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

As discussed above the one or more signals representative of biometric information measured during content generation may associated with content generated by the first user and provided to the service provider with the generated content in some implementations. The signals may be used by a physiological understanding model that may be used to identify and determine the first user s physical condition at the time of content generation. For example the model may be used to determine that the first user is sleepy or not thinking clearly based on the brain waves signal . Further the model may additionally or alternatively be used to determine that the first user is nervous or anxious based on the blood pressure signal . Further the model may additionally or alternatively be used to determine that the first user is impaired e.g. chemical toxin based on the intravenous measurements signal .

Based on the signals provided the first user s physical condition may be determined using the model . The determined physical condition may be compared to a threshold physical condition in of process of discussed above to determine whether to forward content to an authorizer or provide content to one or more second user s if the first user has elected to enable the filtering functionality.

In some examples process may be implemented with different fewer or more blocks. Process may be implemented as computer executable instructions which can be stored on a medium loaded onto one or more processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

An example of one or more devices may be computing device described below in . Devices may include but are not limited to a computer e.g. a laptop computing device a mobile device e.g. smartphone or tablet a television a device associated with a vehicle a server computer computing devices storage devices and .

In some implementations devices may be considered user devices e.g. devices used by users to access services and or issue requests such as on a social network . Devices may be devices associated with service providers e.g. used by service providers to provide services and or store data such as webpages text text portions images image portions audios audio segments videos video segments and or information thereabout .

For example a first user e.g. Alice may create generate and or edit content or a webpage using user device or on a social network supported by one or more devices . Additionally an authorizer e.g. Bob may review authorize and or edit the content if forwarded to the Authorizer user another device or on a social network supported by one or more devices . Further a recipient e.g. Carl may access and or view content generated by Alice and approved by Bob using device or .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like .

Additionally the user input user interface may also include biometric sensors e.g. an electroencephalogram EEG sphygmomanometer blood pressure meter blood chemistry analysis sensor etc. configured to capture a user s biometric information during content generation.

Output device interface may include a display television monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example implementations input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to the computing device . In other example implementations other computing devices may function as or provide the functions of input user interface and output device interface for a computing device .

Examples of computing device may include but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto radios and the like .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O interface to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and network in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions in some example computing environments. Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can originate from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. One or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit content receiving publication unit content analyzing content forwarding unit and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example content receiving publication unit content analyzing and content forwarding unit may implement one or more processes shown in . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit content receiving publication unit content analyzing and content forwarding unit . For example the content receiving publication unit may forward received content to the content analyzing unit after the input unit has detected a user generated content and communicated the user content to the content receiving publication unit . The content analyzing unit may analyze the received user content to determine whether review of the user content by an authorizer is needed. If the content analyzing unit determines that review by an authorizer is needed the content analyzing unit may provide the user content to the content forwarding unit . The content forwarding unit forwards the user content to the proper authorizer and waits for a response. When an authorization is received by the content forwarding unit or a certain amount of time has elapsed in some implementations the content forwarding unit may instruct the content receiving publication unit to proceed with publishing or distributing the content to other users.

In some instances logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit content receiving publication unit content analyzing and content forwarding unit in some example implementations described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

In situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users are provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect user information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to receive content from the content server that may be more relevant to the user. In addition certain data may be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about the user and used by a content server.

As used herein a service provider may be any entity that stores user accounts and or data or is likely implementing similar services. For example cloud based service providers e.g. providing computing and or storage may implement at least some of the example implementations described herein to allow users to control access to their accounts and content.

As used herein the terms account data associated with an account or content associated with an account refer to information and data of or about the user related to or associated with the user generated by or for the user and or for communicating with or providing service to the user. An account and or data or content associated with the account may be associated with a website product service online service or application. The term application includes but is not limited to software e.g. a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions executable by a processor which is online e.g. accessible by communication protocol and structure such as the Internet or other communication network . The application may be embodied in the environment or structure described below with respect to .

As used herein the term website or web site or site refers to a set of web pages for providing or supporting related services. A website can be hosted on at least one computing device e.g. a system server web server application server client or any label accessible via a network or connection wired and or wireless . A website can be accessed and or supported using at least one top level Uniform Resource Locator URL e.g. abc.gov 123.org zxc.com bestads.com virtualbank.com and the like . A website can be operated and or supported by one or more business entities. For example ZXC Corporation may operate the website zxc.com that includes web pages content and or services from zxc.bestads.com e.g. advertisement services provided by another firm and virtualbank.com zxc payment services e.g. financial services provided by a financial institution .

As used herein the terms product service online service or application refer to any information communication infrastructure organization or the like provided by one or more providers to at least one user. Examples of products services or applications may include but are not limited to forums online platforms bulletin boards social networks websites sites chat rooms email communication image sharing sites data sharing platforms video sharing sites online searching data storage cloud storage software tax preparation and filing online banking online investment management and the like. Products services or applications may be provided on any device ranging from a mobile device e.g. smartphone application or apps to a semi mobile device e.g. a laptop and to a non mobile device e.g. a kiosk . A product service or application may communicate to a provider or another product service or application using a wired or wireless connection.

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

