---

title: Vented armor V structure
abstract: An armor structure for a vehicle underbody. The armor structure includes an inner plate that is mounted proximate to the vehicle underbody, the inner plate having a plurality of first openings; and an outer plate that is mounted distal to the vehicle underbody, the outer plate having a plurality of second openings. The inner plate and the outer plate are substantially parallel and separated by a spacing. The inner plate and the outer plate each have substantially equal V bends at an obtuse angle, and the V bends in the inner plate and the outer plate are aligned. When an underbody blast event is encountered by the vehicle, the outer plate is forced towards, and substantially against the inner plate such that fluid communication via each of the first openings is reduced or prevented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08459167&OS=08459167&RS=08459167
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08459167
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130214
---
The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to me.

Recently a class of military vehicles known as Mine Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP vehicles has become popular due to the protection which is provided against mines improvised explosive devices IEDs and the like. The most salient feature of the MRAP is the V shaped lower hull armor which has proven effective at deflecting the blast of under vehicle explosions. There have been numerous efforts to retrofit V shaped blast shields on vehicles which were not designed to accept such protection. In some cases the added protection is well tolerated by the host vehicle in other cases automotive problems occurred. The primary source of automotive problems derives from the added on protective V armor structure that prevents airflow from the engine compartment and around the transmission. The resulting inadequate heat dissipation can cause overheating of the automotive components.

The use of protective underbody structures that are vented to reduce heat effects is taught by such references as U.S. Pat. No. 6 099 042. An armor system having inner and outer perforated armor layers with various shapes of perforations and with filler between the layers is shown and described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 965 138 and 5 014 593. The use of foam filler in particular between layers of armor is taught by U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 351 374 and 5 014 593. Implementation of bendable tabs to produce energy absorption between inner and outer layers of both flat and curve shaped surfaces is taught in U.S. Pat. No. 6 557 929. Closing off the venting effect of holes with flap like elements in response to force against the flap elements is taught by U.S. Pat. No. 3 450 254. Additional background references may include U.S. Pat. Nos. 1 026 207 1 761 095 1 899 735 2 392 215 3 604 374 4 055 247 4 083 694 4 186 817 4 323 000 4 347 796 4 536 982 4 663 875 4 727 789 4 981 067 5 007 326 5 149 910 5 628 682 5 961 182 6 405 630 7 000 550 7 270 045 and 7 350 451. However a deficiency of typical conventional underbody armor structures is a failure to provide a combination of adequate heat dissipation and adequate protection from IEDs and mines.

Thus there exists a need and an opportunity for an improved vented armor structure particularly V shaped armor structure for underbody implementation. Such an improved system may overcome one or more of the deficiencies of the conventional approaches.

In accordance with the present invention to mitigate potential overheating a vented V underbody vehicle armor structure can be implemented which allows air to flow through the V during normal operation while providing protection from underbody blast events. The V armor generally comprises two layers of armor structure that are spaced apart a thick inner V structure element intended to withstand the blast loads and a thin outer V structure element intended to collapse during a blast. Both inner and outer structures may be perforated with openings in corresponding locations such that a passageway might be easily constructed from the inner to the outer structural layers of armor.

To reduce or prevent accumulation of debris in the space between the layers a tube may be implemented between complementary openings in the two layers. The tubes may provide a duct type path for heat to escape from the vehicle.

Between the inner and outer layer a valve subsystem may be implemented. The valve subsystem is generally rapidly closed by the pressure generated by an explosion. In simple form the valve subsystem can be flaps of material which are forced over the holes in the inner structure by the movement of the outer structure. The valve subsystem closing action will generally reduce or prevent most of the high pressure gasses generated by the under vehicle explosion from bypassing the inner V and thus provide significant blast protection well beyond the protection that the perforated structure would provide without rapidly closing valve subsystem.

The space between the inner and outer V structures may be filled with structural foam honeycomb or similar material which will form a continuous passage between the inner and outer perforations. Under normal pre blast event operating conditions the foam ducting may conduct gasses i.e. heat efficiently from the inside of the inner V to the bottom of the outer V . The foam or other filler is generally compressible and during a blast event will generally not interfere with the closing function of the valve subsystem. The filler also may prevent debris such as soil or mud from becoming lodged between inner and outer V structures. Buildup of such debris materials would generally add weight to the vehicle and could result in preventing the valves from functioning properly.

Accordingly the present invention may provide an improved vented armor structure particularly a V shaped armor structure for underbody implementation.

According to the present invention an armor structure for a vehicle underbody may be provided. The armor structure generally includes an inner plate that is mounted proximate to the vehicle underbody the inner plate having a plurality of first openings and an outer plate that is mounted distal to the vehicle underbody the outer plate having a plurality of second openings. The inner plate and the outer plate are generally substantially parallel and separated by a spacing. The inner plate and the outer plate each may have substantially equal V bends at an obtuse angle and the V bends in the inner plate and the outer plate are generally aligned. The first openings and the second openings are i aligned across the spacing from each other and ii substantially equal in area. The first openings and the second openings provide fluid communication through the armor structure. When an underbody blast event is encountered by the vehicle underbody the outer plate may be forced towards and substantially against the inner plate such that there is no longer fluid communication through the first openings.

a plurality of valves each valve having a bendable hinge the bendable hinge fastened on the side of the inner plate that faces the outer plate and each of the valves is positioned and aligned with respect to one of the first openings such that when the underbody blast event is encountered the outer plate will push against the valve the hinge will bend and the valve will block the first opening such that there is no longer fluid communication through the first opening. The number of valves may be at least equal to the number of first openings.

a plurality of ducts equal to the number of first openings and the ducts are implemented to connect each of the first openings and the second openings that are aligned across the spacing from each other wherein the ducts are longer than the spacing such that there is overlap into the first openings and the second openings and the ducts are sized to snugly fit into the first openings and the second openings and

the walls of the ducts are made of a thin flexible material that will collapse when the underbody blast event is encountered such that fluid communication via the first opening is reduced or prevented.

a filling in the spacing and the filling includes a plurality of continuous passages that are implemented to connect each of the first openings and the second openings that are aligned across the spacing from each other the filling is compressible or crushable and during the underbody blast event the filling is compressed or crushed.

a filling in the spacing exclusive of inside of the ducts and the filling is compressible or crushable and during the underbody blast event the filling is compressed or crushed.

a plurality of valves each valve having a bendable hinge the bendable hinge fastened on the side of the inner plate that faces the outer plate and each of the valves is positioned and aligned with respect to one of the ducts such that when the underbody blast event is encountered the outer plate will push against the valve the hinge will bend and the valve will block the duct such that there is no longer fluid communication through the first opening.

Further according to the present invention a method of protecting a vehicle underbody may be provided. The method generally includes mounting an inner plate proximate to the vehicle underbody the inner plate having a plurality of first openings and mounting an outer plate distal to the vehicle underbody the outer plate having a plurality of second openings to form an armor structure. The inner plate and the outer plate are generally substantially parallel and separated by a spacing. The inner plate and the outer plate may each have substantially equal V bends at an obtuse angle and the V bends in the inner plate and the outer plate are generally aligned. The first openings and the second openings are generally i aligned across the spacing from each other and ii substantially equal in area. The first openings and the second openings may provide fluid communication through the armor structure. When an underbody blast event is encountered by the vehicle underbody the outer plate is generally forced towards and substantially against the inner plate such that there is no longer fluid communication through the first openings.

a plurality of valves each valve having a bendable hinge the bendable hinge fastened on the side of the inner plate that faces the outer plate and each of the valves is positioned and aligned with respect to one of the first openings such that when the underbody blast event is encountered the outer plate will push against the valve the hinge will bend and the valve will block the first opening such that there is no longer fluid communication through the first opening. The number of valves may be at least equal to the number of first openings.

a plurality of ducts equal to the number of first openings and the ducts are implemented to connect each of the first openings and the second openings that are aligned across the spacing from each other wherein the ducts are longer than the spacing such that there is overlap into the first openings and the second openings and the ducts are sized to snugly fit into the first openings and the second openings and

the walls of the ducts are made of a thin flexible material that will collapse when the underbody blast event is encountered such that fluid communication via the first opening is reduced or prevented.

a filling in the spacing and the filling includes a plurality of continuous passages that are implemented to connect each of the first openings and the second openings that are aligned across the spacing from each other the filling is compressible or crushable and during the underbody blast event the filling is compressed or crushed.

a filling in the spacing exclusive of inside of the ducts and the filling is compressible or crushable and during the underbody blast event the filling is compressed or crushed.

a plurality of valves each valve having a bendable hinge the bendable hinge fastened on the side of the inner plate that faces the outer plate and each of the valves is positioned and aligned with respect to one of the ducts such that when the underbody blast event is encountered the outer plate will push against the valve the hinge will bend and the valve will block the duct such that there is no longer fluid communication through the first opening.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art.

The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials and an element includes reference to one or more of such elements.

As used herein substantial and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material dimension characteristic parameter and the like refer to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation. Similarly substantially free of or the like refers to the lack of an identified composition characteristic or property. Particularly assemblies that are identified as being substantially free of are either completely absent of the characteristic or the characteristic is present only in values which are small enough that no meaningful effect on the desired results is generated.

Concentrations values dimensions amounts and other quantitative data may be presented herein in a range format. One skilled in the art will understand that such range format is used for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a size range of about 1 dimensional unit to about 100 dimensional units should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits but also to include individual sizes such as 2 dimensional units 3 dimensional units 10 dimensional units and the like and sub ranges such as 10 dimensional units to 50 dimensional units 20 dimensional units to 100 dimensional units and the like.

For a vehicle and a system mounted on or used in connection with the vehicle forward reverse longitudinal and vertical up down directions are generally relative to the vehicle and system as typically operated e.g. when the vehicle is operated with the respective powertrain in a forward reverse mode . As such lateral left right directions are generally perpendicular to the longitudinal vertical plane and are referenced from a vehicle operator e.g. driver perspective. A first direction e.g. forward and a second direction e.g. rearward or reverse where the second direction substantially but not necessarily wholly opposes the first direction are also generally or used in connection with the vehicle. Referenced directions are generally as shown on unless otherwise noted. Likewise elements located mounted positioned placed installed etc. on near or proximate to the vehicle body are generally referred to as inner while elements that are distal or more remote to the vehicle body are generally referred to as outer unless otherwise noted. As such inner elements are generally closer to the vehicle body than outer elements.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved system and an improved method for a vented armor structure. While described in particular detail in connection with a V shaped underbody armor structure that is generally retrofitted to a vehicle the present invention may be implemented in connection with any application where a combination of heat dissipative venting and armor protection particularly protection from blast related effects is desired e.g. as an original equipment armor structure.

In accordance with the present invention to mitigate potential overheating a vented V can be implemented which allows air to flow through the V during normal operation. This V generally comprises a thick inner V structure intended to withstand the blast loads and a thin outer V structure intended to collapse during a blast. Both inner and outer structures are perforated with openings in corresponding locations such that a passage way might be easily constructed from the inner to the outer. In one or more embodiments between the inner and outer layer a valve which is rapidly closed by the pressure generated by an explosion may be implemented. In simple form the valve can be flaps of material which are forced over the holes in the inner structure by the movement of the outer structure. This action will generally prevent most of the high pressure gasses generated by the under vehicle explosion from bypassing the inner V and thus provide significant blast protection well beyond what the perforated structure would provide without rapidly closing valves.

In one or more other embodiments the space between the inner and outer V structures may be filled with honeycomb structural foam or similar material which will form a continuous passage ducting between the inner and outer perforations. This ducting will conduct gasses efficiently from the inside of the inner V to the bottom of the outer V . The filler material is generally compressible and during a blast will generally not interfere with the closing function of the valve mechanism. The filler material may also reduce or prevent debris such as soil or mud from becoming lodged between inner and outer V structures. Buildup of such debris would generally add weight to the vehicle and could result in preventing the valves from functioning properly.

In one or more other embodiments a duct e.g. pipe tube cylinder and the like may be implemented to connect the complementary i.e. matching perforations in the inner and outer structures. The duct may also reduce or prevent debris such as soil or mud from becoming lodged between inner and outer V structures.

Referring to a sectional view of an armor structure or system taken at the line of is shown. The armor generally comprises an inner i.e. inner plate and an outer i.e. second plate . The armor may be implemented as a double walled vented V shaped underbody armor structure. The view of the armor that is illustrated in depicts the armor before a blast event is encountered.

The inner plate and the outer plate are generally substantially parallel separated by spacing S and each having a bend at an obtuse angle V and the V bends in the inner plate and the outer plate are generally aligned. The inner plate may have a thickness TI and the outer plate may have a thickness TO. The inner plate thickness TI is generally larger greater than the outer plate thickness TO. In one embodiment the inner plate thickness TI is at least twice as large as the outer plate thickness TO. In another embodiment the inner plate thickness TI is at least five times as large as the outer plate thickness TO.

The inner plate and the outer plate are generally implemented via structural armor materials such as rolled armor steel 5083 series aluminum and the like. However the inner first plate and the outer second plate may be implemented using any appropriate materials and combinations of materials to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

The inner first plate generally includes a plurality of first openings e.g. perforations holes passages orifices apertures and the like e.g. first openings and the outer second plate generally includes a plurality of second openings e.g. second openings . The openings and the openings are generally complementary. That is the openings and the openings are generally aligned across the spacing S from each other are equal in number and may be substantially equal in area and shape. The complementary matching openings and the openings generally provide fluid communication e.g. for hot air passage through the armor . The openings and the openings are generally implemented having sufficient number and area to provide dissipation of heat that may be generated by one or more devices e.g. an engine a transmission a transfer case etc. that is generally located above the upper side of the plate i.e. above the side of the plate that is opposite the side of the plate that faces the plate .

The first opening may have a lateral dimension e.g. diameter when the opening is circular LI and the second opening may have a lateral dimension e.g. diameter when the opening is circular LO. In one example the lateral dimensions LI and LO may be substantially equal. As is known to one of skill in the art the openings and the openings may be implemented as substantially circular holes as slots having rectangular or oblong shape as triangular holes or as having any appropriate regular or irregular shape to meet the design criteria e.g. physical layout limitations heat rejection desired and the like of a particular application. The openings and may not necessarily have the same shape and may not necessarily be equal in number.

Referring to an isometric view from the left front underside of a vehicle shown in phantom for clarity where the armor system may be implemented i.e. mounted installed retrofitted attached etc. is illustrated. The inner plate is generally mounted proximate to the underbody of the vehicle and the outer plate is generally mounted distal to the underbody of the vehicle . The bend having the angle V may be oriented longitudinally with respect to the vehicle as illustrated. However the angle V may be oriented at any appropriate vehicular direction depending on the particular application. In one embodiment the outer plate may be curved at lateral edges to intersect the vehicle and provide a fastening location. In another embodiment not shown a subsystem of standoffs may be implemented to provide fastening and the spacing S between the inner plate and the outer plate as would be known to one of skill in the art.

Referring to a sectional view of the armor system after an underbody blast event e.g. an underbody mine improvised explosive device and the like has been encountered is illustrated. The blast generally forces at least a portion section region etc. the outer second plate towards and substantially against the inner plate . The openings and are sized and aligned such that there is no longer fluid communication through the openings in the inner first plate i.e. the ends of the openings that face the outer plate are generally blocked in response to the blast event . The outer second plate generally does not substantially change fore aft position on the vehicle after the underbody blast event is encountered. As such blast protection is generally provided to the region of the vehicle that is above the plate i.e. the armor structure generally provides protection to the underbody of the vehicle .

Referring to a sectional view another embodiment of the armor system is illustrated. The armor may further comprise a plurality of valves e.g. flaps tabs and the like e.g. tab valves having a bendable hinge e.g. hinges and . See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 557 929 tabs 26 on FIGS. 2 24 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 350 451 projections 510 on FIGS. 6A and 6B. The bendable hinge of the tabs are generally fastened on the side of the inner plate that faces the outer plate . Each of the tab valves are generally positioned and aligned with respect to complementary first openings e.g. tab at opening tab at opening tabs and at opening and so forth such that when a blast event is encountered in response to the blast event the outer plate will push against the tab valve the hinge will bend and the tab valve will weld flatten against the inner plate and block the opening i.e. the hinged flaps perform as closing valves . The first openings are blocked by the tab valves such that there is no longer fluid communication through the openings in the inner plate i.e. the ends of the openings that face the outer plate are generally blocked . One or more of the tab valves are generally implemented per each of the first openings i.e. the number of valves may be at least equal to the number of first openings . As such blast protection is generally provided to the region of the vehicle that is above the plate .

Referring to a sectional view another embodiment of the armor system is illustrated. The armor may further comprise a plurality of ducts i.e. tube pipe cylinder and the like e.g. ducts each duct having a first end and a second end. The duct may be implemented to connect the complementary perforations and in the inner plate and the outer plate respectively of the armor structure . That is the first end of the duct is generally inserted into the first opening and fastened to the inner plate and the second end of the duct is generally inserted into the second opening and fastened to the outer plate and so on. The duct may also reduce or prevent debris such as soil or mud from becoming lodged between the inner plate and the outer plate .

The duct is generally longer than the spacing S such that there is overlap into the openings and and the duct is generally sized to snugly fit into the openings and and remain in place during normal vehicle operations. The walls of the tube are generally made of a thin flexible material e.g. steel aluminum plastic etc. that will generally collapse e.g. pinch fold crush crumple etc. when a blast event is encountered such that fluid communication via the opening is reduced or prevented.

The tab valves may be advantageously implemented in connection with complementary ducts . For example the tab valve is illustrated in connection with the duct . When an underbody blast event is encountered by the vehicle the tab valve generally operates e.g. bends at the hinge region to close i.e. crush pinch block etc. the duct .

Further one or more accordion i.e. zigzag saw tooth and the like shaped valves may be implemented in connection with complementary openings and and or ducts e.g. accordion valves and that are implemented in connection with the openings and and the duct . See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 270 045 on FIGS. 1 and 2 element 156 for an accordion shaped element as implemented via the accordion valves . The accordion valves are generally hinged and are shaped and positioned e.g. having at least one hinge apex substantially near a complementary opening opening and or duct such that when an underbody blast event is encountered by the vehicle the fluid communication between the complementary openings and is reduced or blocked and when implemented in connection with the complementary duct the duct is pinched.

Referring to a sectional view another embodiment of the armor system is illustrated. The armor may further comprise a filling in the space between the inner and outer V plate structures and respectively. The filling may be implemented as honeycomb structural foam or similar material e.g. urethane foam . The filling generally includes a plurality of complementary continuous passages i.e. ducts lumens holes tunnels etc. e.g. passages between the inner and outer perforations and respectively.

The duct will generally conduct gasses efficiently from the inside of the inner V i.e. above the plate to the bottom of the outer V i.e. below the plate . The filling is generally compressible or crushable and during a blast event the filling will generally not interfere with the closing of the openings . The filling that is compressed or crushed during a blast event may aid the closing of the opening .

The filling may also reduce or prevent debris such as soil or mud from becoming lodged between the inner plate and the outer plate . Buildup of such debris would generally add weight to the vehicle and could result in preventing the valves and or from functioning properly.

Further as illustrated on the openings and and the passage may be implemented at an angle A where the angle A is not necessarily perpendicular to the planar surfaces of the plates and .

Yet further illustrated in connection with a plurality of the openings and may be combined e.g. interconnected merged siamesed and the like to provide fluid communication through the respective plate or or the passage . For example the openings may combine to provide fluid communication through the inner plate and into the passage . Similarly the passage may provide fluid communication into the combined openings and in the outer plate .

One or more of the elements of the embodiments of the armor may be advantageously combined. For example the valves and as described in connection with alone or in combination may also be implemented in connection with the filling and the passages described in connection with . When the valves and or are combined with the filling and the passages the filling will generally not interfere with the closing operation of the valve mechanism and or . The number of valves and or is generally at least equal to the number of the first openings .

In another example the duct of may be implemented in connection with the filling of . In particular the filling may be implemented in the spacing between the inner and outer V plate structures and exclusive of inside of the duct such that the heat dissipative effect of the duct is maintained.

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved system and an improved method for a vented V shaped armor e.g. the armor .

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

