---

title: Multi-channel medical imaging system
abstract: A medical imaging system provides simultaneous rendering of visible light and fluorescent images. The system may employ dyes in a small-molecule form that remain in a subject's blood stream for several minutes, allowing real-time imaging of the subject's circulatory system superimposed upon a conventional, visible light image of the subject. The system may provide an excitation light source to excite the fluorescent substance and a visible light source for general illumination within the same optical guide used to capture images. The system may be configured for use in open surgical procedures by providing an operating area that is closed to ambient light. The systems described herein provide two or more diagnostic imaging channels for capture of multiple, concurrent diagnostic images and may be used where a visible light image may be usefully supplemented by two or more images that are independently marked for functional interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326666&OS=09326666&RS=09326666
owner: Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
number: 09326666
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131118
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. Ser. No. 12 307 204 filed Oct. 22 2009 now allowed which is a national phase filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of published International Application No. PCT US07 072803 filed on Jul. 3 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. International Application PCT US07 72803 was published in English as Publication No. WO 2008 042486. International Application PCT US07 72803 claims priority to U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 818 365 filed on Jul. 3 2006 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 507 253 filed on Sep. 10 2004 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. U.S. application Ser. No. 10 507 253 was filed as a U.S. national phase filing of International App. No. PCT US03 07596 filed on Mar. 11 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Prov. App. No. 60 363 413 filed on Mar. 12 2002. The benefit of the foregoing applications is claimed herein to the extent permitted by law.

The United States Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to National Institute of Health Grant R21CA88245 and Department of Energy Grant DE FG02 01ER63188.

The invention is directed to a medical imaging system and more particularly to a medical imaging system capable of acquiring and displaying two or more diagnostic images at two different wavelengths along with a color image of an anatomical site in the visible wavelength range.

Absorption and fluorescent dyes such as indocyanine green have proven useful for medical imaging applications. Some of the more commonly used dyes share a number of useful characteristics. First the dyes are suitable for labeling antibodies or low molecular weight ligands of diagnostic significance or otherwise adapted for sequestration or preferential uptake at a site of interest such as a lesion. The dyes are safe for injection or other introduction into a live subject. And finally the dyes emit light at a specific wavelength when excited so that their location and concentration may be tracked.

A number of imaging systems have been devised to detect and display these dyes within living tissue. For example dyes such as indocyanine green have been used to visualize blood flow in eyes. In some cases such as U.S. Pat. No. 6 293 911 to Imaizumi et al. a dye imaging device has been combined with a visible light imaging system. Imaizumi describes endoscopic tools that generate images of dye labeled antibodies superimposed over visible light images captured from within the body. As a significant disadvantage the Imaizumi system employs a number of separate cavities within an endoscopic tool for light sources and image capture thus requiring a greater cross sectional area for the endoscope. As a further disadvantage the Imaizumi patent only discloses endoscopic applications and may not be suitable for use in open surgical applications where ambient light may extend into the excitation and or emission wavelengths of the dye.

There remains a need for improved surgical and diagnostic imaging tools capable of generating circulatory blood flow images or other functional images along with visible light images of a subject.

A medical imaging system provides simultaneous rendering of visible light and fluorescent images. The system may employ dyes in a small molecule form that remains in a subject s blood stream for several minutes allowing real time imaging of the subject s circulatory system superimposed upon a conventional visible light image of the subject. The system may also employ dyes or other fluorescent substances associated with antibodies antibody fragments or ligands that accumulate within a region of diagnostic significance. In one embodiment the system provides an excitation light source to excite the fluorescent substance and a visible light source for general illumination within the same optical guide that is used to capture images. In another embodiment the system is configured for use in open surgical procedures by providing an operating area that is closed to ambient light. The systems described herein usefully provide two or more diagnostic imaging channels for capture of multiple concurrent diagnostic images. The systems described herein may be used in imaging applications where a visible light image may be usefully supplemented by two or more images that are independently marked for functional interest.

The medical imaging system may include a visible light source providing light over a range of wavelengths that includes one or more wavelengths of visible light an excitation light source providing light at one or more wavelengths outside the range of wavelengths of the visible light source the one or more wavelengths selected to excite a fluorescent substance which emits one or more photons at an emission wavelength an electronic imaging device an optical guide having a first end with a lens that captures an image of a subject and a second end that couples the image to the electronic imaging device and a filter for coupling the visible light source and the excitation light source into the optical guide the filter reflecting some of the light provided by the visible light source and some of the light from the excitation light source toward the subject the filter further transmitting some visible light from the subject captured by the lens toward the electronic imaging device and the filter further transmitting the emission wavelength from the subject captured by the lens toward the electronic imaging device.

In another embodiment the system may include a visible light source illuminating a subject the visible light source providing a range of wavelengths including one or more wavelengths of visible light an excitation light source illuminating the subject the excitation light source providing an excitation wavelength that is not one of the one or more wavelengths of visible light a fluorescent substance introduced into a circulatory system of the subject the fluorescent substance being soluble in blood carried by the circulatory system and the fluorescent substance emitting photons at an emission wavelength in response to the excitation wavelength an electronic imaging device that captures an image of a field of view that includes some portion of the subject and the circulatory system of the subject the image including a first image obtained from the one or more wavelengths of visible light and a second image obtained from the emission wavelength and a display that renders the first image and the second image the second image being displayed at a visible light wavelength.

In another embodiment the system may include an operating area closed to ambient light the operating area including a surgical field where a surgical procedure may be performed on a subject a visible light source illuminating the surgical field the visible light source providing a range of wavelengths including one or more wavelengths of visible light an excitation light source illuminating the surgical field the excitation light source including at least one wavelength outside the range of wavelengths of visible light a fluorescent substance suitable for in vivo use the fluorescent substance fluorescing at an emission wavelength in response to the at least one wavelength of the excitation light source the fluorescent substance being introduced into the surgical field an electronic imaging device that captures a visible light image of the surgical field and an emission wavelength image of the surgical field and a display that renders the visible light image and the emission wavelength image of the surgical field the emission wavelength image being displayed at a visible light wavelength.

In another embodiment the system may include a visible light source that illuminates a subject the visible light source providing a range of wavelengths including one or more wavelengths of visible light an excitation light source that illuminates the subject at the same time that the visible light source illuminates the subject the excitation light source providing an excitation wavelength that is not one of the one or more wavelengths of visible light a fluorescent substance introduced into a circulatory system of the subject the fluorescent substance being soluble in blood carried by the circulatory system and the fluorescent substance emitting photons at an emission wavelength in response to the excitation wavelength and an electronic imaging device that captures an image of a field of view that includes some portion of the subject and the circulatory system of the subject the image including a first image obtained from the one or more wavelengths of visible light and a second image concurrently obtained from the emission wavelength.

In another aspect the embodiments described above may include a first optical channel for a first diagnostic image having a first wavelength a second optical channel for a second diagnostic image having a second wavelength and a third optical channel for a visible light image.

To provide an overall understanding of the invention certain illustrative embodiments will now be described including a system for generating superimposed circulatory and tissue images in video format. However it will be understood that the methods and systems described herein can be suitably adapted to other medical imaging applications where visible light tissue images may be usefully displayed with diagnostic image information obtained from outside the visible light range and superimposed onto the visible light image. More generally the methods and systems described herein may be adapted to any imaging application where a visible light image may be usefully displayed with a superimposed image captured from areas within the visible light image that are functionally marked to emit photons outside the visible light range by a dye or other material. For example the systems and methods are applicable to a wide range of diagnostic or surgical applications where a target pathology tissue type or cell may be labeled with a fluorescent dye or other fluorescent substance. These and other applications of the systems described herein are intended to fall within the scope of the invention.

The imaging system may be surrounded by an operating area not shown closed to ambient light. As will become clear from the following many visible light sources such as incandescent lamps halogen lamps or daylight may include a broad spectrum of electromagnetic radiation that extends beyond the range of visible light detected by the human eye and into wavelengths used in the present system as a separate optical channel for generating diagnostic images. In order to effectively detect emission in these super visible light wavelengths it is preferred to enclose the surgical field light sources and cameras in an area that is not exposed to broadband light sources. This may be achieved by using an operating room closed to external light sources or by using a hood or other enclosure or covering for the surgical field that prevents invasion by unwanted spectrum. The visible light source may then serve as a light source for the visible light camera and also for provide conventional lighting within the visible light spectrum. As used herein the term operating area is intended specifically to refer to an open surgical site that is closed to ambient light. Endoscopic or laparoscopic applications as described below are confined to surgical procedures within a closed body cavity and do not include an operating area as that term is intended herein.

The visible light source may be for example a near infrared depleted white light source. This may be a one hundred fifty Watt halogen lamp with one or more fitters to deplete wavelengths greater than 700 nanometers nm . Generally any light source constrained to wavelengths between 400 nm and 700 nm may operate as the visible light source . In certain applications the excitation light source and resulting emission from the dye may have wavelengths near or below 700 nm as with Cy5 dye which emits light when excited at 650 nm. These near red dyes may be used with the present system however this requires a visible light source that excludes a portion of the visible light spectrum in which the dye operates i.e. a far red depleted white light source. Similarly applications using quantum dots as a fluorescent substance may have absorption or emission wavelengths anywhere in the visible light spectrum and a suitable visible light source should be depleted at the wavelength s of interest. As such the visible light source should more generally be understood to be a source of light that includes some but not necessarily all of the wavelengths of visible light.

It should also be understood that in a far red imaging system or infrared imaging system such as those noted above the near infrared camera described in the example embodiment will instead be a camera sensitive to the emission wavelength of the dye or other fluorescent substance and that other modifications to light sources filters and other optics will be appropriate. Similar modifications may be made to isolate a band of wavelengths for dye excitation and emission anywhere within or outside the visible light range provided that suitable optics cameras and dyes are available. Other fluorescent substances may also be used. For example quantum dots may emit at visible light wavelengths far red near infrared and infrared wavelengths and at other wavelengths typically in response to absorption below their emission wavelength. Suitable adjustments will be made to the excitation light source and the emission camera the near infrared camera in the example embodiment for such applications. Cameras sensitive to far red near infrared and infrared wavelengths are commercially available.

The excitation light source provides light at a wavelength that excites the dye . This may be for example a laser diode such as a 771 nm 250 mW laser diode system which may be obtained from Laser Components of Santa Rosa Calif. Other single wavelength narrowband or broadband light sources may be used provided they do not interfere with the visible light image captured by the video camera or the emission wavelength of the dye . The near infrared band is generally understood to include wavelengths between 700 nm and 1000 nm and is a useful wavelength range for a number of readily available excitation light sources and dyes that may be used with the systems described herein. Suitable optical coupling and lenses may be provided to direct each of the visible light source and the excitation light source at an area of interest within the surgical field .

The surgical field may be any area of a subject or patient that is open for a surgical procedure. This may be for example an open chest during a procedure such as a revascularization or cardiac gene therapy where visualization of the circulatory system may improve identification of areas at risk for myocardial infarction. Blood flow visualization may permit an assessment of coronary arteries during a coronary artery bypass graft or an assessment of blood flow and viability during introduction of genes for endothelial growth factor or fibroblast growth factor to induce neovascularization within ischemic regions of the heart. More generally the surgical field may include any areas of a patient s body such as a region of the body that includes a tumor that is to be surgically removed and that is amenable to visualization with fluorescent dyes such as through the use of labeled antibodies.

The dye source may be any instrument used for injection or other introduction of the dye into a subject such as a hypodermic needle or angiocath. Where for example the dye is highly soluble in blood the dye source may be administered anywhere on the subject and need not be near the surgical field . For example it has been found that IRDye78 CA the carboxylic acid form of IRDye78 when injected intravenously into a live laboratory rat produced peak vasculature image strength of an open heart approximately 5 10 seconds after injection and remained adequate for visualization for over one minute. In certain embodiments the dye source may not use injection. For example the dye source may spray or otherwise apply the dye to an area of interest Depending upon the type of dye and the imaging technique the dye may be delivered in a discrete dose or may be continuously or intermittently applied and re applied by the dye source .

The dye may be any dye suitable for use in vivo and having excitation and emission wavelengths suitable for other components of the system . Typically the dye will be diluted to 25 50 M for intravenous injection such as with phosphate buffered saline which may be supplemented with Cremophor EL Sigma and or absolute ethanol. A number of suitable near infrared dyes are described below.

 Acyl refers to a group suitable for acylating a nitrogen atom to form an amide or carbamate a carbon atom to form a ketone a sulfur atom to form a thioester or an oxygen atom to form an ester group e.g. a hydrocarbon attached to a C O moiety. Preferred acyl groups include benzoyl acetyl tert butyl acetyl pivaloyl and trifluoroacetyl. More preferred acyl groups include acetyl and benzoyl. The most preferred acyl group is acetyl.

The terms amine and amino are art recognized and refer to both unsubstituted and substituted amines as well as ammonium salts e.g. as can be represented by the general formula 

The terms amido and amide are art recognized as an amino substituted carbonyl such as a moiety that can be represented by the general formula 

 Alkyl refers to a saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon chain having 1 to 18 carbon atoms preferably 1 to 12 more preferably 1 to 6 more preferably still 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Alkyl chains may be straight e.g. n butyl or branched e.g. sec butyl isobutyl or t butyl . Preferred branched alkyls have one or two branches preferably one branch. Preferred alkyls are saturated. Unsaturated alkyls have one or more double bonds and or one or more triple bonds. Preferred unsaturated alkyls have one or two double bonds or one triple bond more preferably one double bond. Alkyl chains may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to 4 substituents. Preferred alkyls are unsubstituted. Preferred substituted alkyls are mono di or trisubstituted. Preferred alkyl substituents include halo haloalkyl hydroxy aryl e.g. phenyl tolyl alkoxyphenyl alkyloxycarbonylphenyl halophenyl heteroeyelyl and heteroaryl.

The terms alkertyl and alkynyl refer to unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the alkyls described above but that contain at least one double or triple bond respectively. When not otherwise indicated the terms alkenyl and alkynyl preferably refer to lower alkenyl and lower alkynyl groups respectively. When the term alkyl is present in a list with the terms alkenyl and alkynyl the term alkyl refers to saturated alkyls exclusive of alkenyls and alkynyls.

The terms alkoxyl and alkoxy as used herein refer to an O alkyl group Representative alkoxyl groups include methoxy ethoxy propyloxy tert butoxy and the like. An ether is two hydrocarbons covalently linked by an oxygen. Accordingly the substituent of a hydrocarbon that renders that hydrocarbon an ether can be an alkoxyl or another moiety such as O aryl O heteroaryl O heteroalkyl O aralkyl O heteroaralkyl O carbocylic aliphatic or O heterocyclic aliphatic.

 Aryl ring refers to an aromatic hydrocarbon ring system. Aromatic rings are monocyclic or fused bicyclic ring systems such as phenyl naphthyl etc. Monocyclic aromatic rings contain from about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms preferably from 5 to 7 carbon atoms and most preferably from 5 to 6 carbon atoms in the ring Bicyclic aromatic rings contain from 8 to 12 carbon atoms preferably 9 or 10 carbon atoms in the ring. The term aryl also includes bicyclic ring systems wherein only one of the rings is aromatic e.g. the other ring is cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl or heterocyclyl. Aromatic rings may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to about 5 substituents on the ring. Preferred aromatic ring substituents include halo cyano lower alkyl heteroalkyl haloalkyl phenyl phenoxy or any combination thereof. More preferred substituents include lower alkyl cyano halo and haloalkyl.

 Cycloalkyl ring refers to a saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon ring. Cycloalkyl rings are not aromatic. Cycloalkyl rings are monocyclic or are fused spiro or bridged bicyclic ring systems. Monocyclic cycloalkyl rings contain from about 4 to about 10 carbon atoms preferably from 4 to 7 carbon atoms and most preferably from 5 to 6 carbon atoms in the ring. Bicyclic cycloalkyl rings contain from 8 to 12 carbon atoms preferably from 9 to 10 carbon atoms in the ring Cycloalkyl rings may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to 4 substituents on the ring. Preferred cycloalkyl ring substituents include halo cyano alkyl heteroalkyl haloalkyl phenyl phenoxy or any combination thereof. More preferred substituents include halo and haloalkyl. Preferred cycloalkyl rings include cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. More preferred cycloalkyl rings include cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl.

The term carbonyl is art recognized and includes such moieties as can be represented by the general formula 

 Ci alkyl is an alkyl chain having i member atoms. For example C4 alkyls contain four carbon member atoms C4 alkyls containing may be saturated or unsaturated with one or two double bonds cis or trans or one triple bond. Preferred C4 alkyls are saturated. Preferred unsaturated C4 alkyl have one double bond. C4 alkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two substituents. Preferred substituents include lower alkyl lower heteroalkyl cyano halo and haloalkyl.

 Halogen refers to fluoro chloro bromo or iodo substituents. Preferred halo are fluoro chloro and bromo more preferred are chloro and fluoro.

 Heteroalkyl is a saturated or unsaturated chain of carbon atoms and at least one heteroatom wherein no two heteroatoms are adjacent. Heteroalkyl chains contain from 1 to 18 member atoms carbon and heteroatoms in the chain preferably 1 to 12 more preferably 1 to 6 more preferably still 1 to 4. Heteroalkyl chains may be straight or branched. Preferred branched heteroalkyl have one or two branches preferably one branch. Preferred heteroalkyl are saturated. Unsaturated heteroalkyl have one or more double bonds and or one or more triple bonds. Preferred unsaturated heteroalkyl have one or two double bonds or one triple bond more preferably one double bond. Heteroalkyl chains may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to about 4 substituents unless otherwise specified. Preferred heteroalkyl are unsubstituted. Preferred heteroalkyl substituents include halo aryl e.g. phenyl tolyl alkoxyphenyl alkoxycarbonylphenyl halophenyl heterocyclyl heteroaryl. For example alkyl chains substituted with the following substituents are heteroalkyl alkoxy methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy pentoxy aryloxy e.g. phenoxy chlorophenoxy tolyloxy methoxyphenoxy benzyloxy alkoxycarbonylphenoxy acyloxyphenoxy acyloxy e.g. propionyloxy benzoyloxy acetoxy carbamoyloxy carboxy mercapto alkylthio acylthio atylthio e.g. phenylthio chlorophenylthio alkylphenylthio alkoxyphenylthio benzylthio alkoxycarbonylphenylthio amino e.g. amino mono and di C1 C3 alkylamino methylphenylamino methylbenzylamino C1 C3 alkylamido carbamamido ureido guanidino .

 Heteroatom refers to a multivalent non carbon atom such as a boron phosphorous silicon nitrogen sulfur or oxygen atom preferably a nitrogen sulfur or oxygen atom. Groups containing more than one heteroatom may contain different heteroatoms.

 Heteroaryl ring refers to an aromatic ring system containing carbon and from 1 to about 4 heteroatoms in the ring. Heteroaromatic rings are monocyclic or fused bicyclic ring systems. Monocyclic heteroaromatic rings contain from about 5 to about 10 member atoms carbon and heteroatoms preferably from 5 to 7 and most preferably from 5 to 6 in the ring. Bicyclic heteroaromatic rings contain from 8 to 12 member atoms preferably 9 or 10 member atoms in the ring. The term heteroaryl also includes bicyclic ring systems wherein only one of the rings is aromatic e.g. the other ring is cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl or heterocyclyl Heteroaromatic rings may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to about 4 substituents on the ring. Preferred heteroaromatic ring substituents include halo cyano lower alkyl heteroalkyl haloalkyl phenyl phenoxy or any combination thereof. Preferred heteroaromatic rings include thienyl thiazolyl oxazolyl pyrrolyl purinyl pyrimidyl pyridyl and furanyl. More preferred heteroaromatic rings include thienyl furanyl and pyridyl.

 Heterocyclic aliphatic ring is noon aromatic saturated or unsaturated ring containing carbon and from 1 to about 4 heteroatoms in the ring wherein no two heteroatoms are adjacent in the ring and preferably no carbon in the ring attached to a heteroatom also has a hydroxyl amino or thiol group attached to it. Heterocyclic aliphatic rings are monocyclic or are fused or bridged bicyclic ring systems. Monocyclic heterocyclic aliphatic rings contain from about 4 to about 10 member atoms carbon and heteroatoms preferably from 4 to 7 and most preferably from 5 to 6 member atoms in the ring. Bicyclic heterocyclic aliphatic rings contain from 8 to 12 member atoms preferably 9 or 10 member atoms in the ring Heterocyclic aliphatic rings may be unsubstituted or substituted with from 1 to about 4 substituents on the ring. Preferred heterocyclic aliphatic ring substituents include halo cyano lower alkyl heteroalkyl haloalkyl phenyl phenoxy or any combination thereof. More preferred substituents include halo and haloalkyl. Heterocyclyl groups include for example thiophene thianthrene furan pyran isobenzofuran chromene xanthene phenoxathin pyrrole imidazole pyrazole isothiazole isoxazole pyridine pyrazine pyrimidine pyridazine indolizine isoindole indole indazole purine quinolizine isoquinoline hydantoin oxazoline imidazolinetrione triazolinone quinoline phthalazine naphthyridine quinoxaline quinazoline quinoline pteridine carbazole carboline phenanthridine acridine phenanthroline phenazine phenarsazine phenothiazine furazan phenoxazine pyrrolidine oxolane thiolane oxazole piperidine piperazine morpholine lactones lactams such as azetidinones and pyrrolidinones sultams sultones and the like. Preferred heterocyclic aliphatic rings include piperazyl morpholinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl and piperidyl. Heterocycles can also be polycycles.

 Lower alkyl refers to an alkyl chain comprised of 1 to 4 preferably 1 to 3 carbon member atoms more preferably 1 or 2 carbon member atoms. Lower alkyls may be saturated or unsaturated. Preferred lower alkyls are saturated. Lower alkyls may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or about two substituents. Preferred substituents on lower alkyl include cyano halo trifluoromethyl amino and hydroxyl. Throughout the application preferred alkyl groups are lower alkyls. In preferred embodiments a substituent designated herein as alkyl is a lower alkyl. Likewise lower alkenyl and lower alkynyl have similar chain lengths.

 Lower heteroalkyl refers to a heteroalkyl chain comprised of 1 to 4 preferably 1 to 3 member atoms more preferably 1 to 2 member atoms. Lower heteroalkyl contain one or two non adjacent heteroatom member atoms. Preferred lower heteroalkyl contain one heteroatom member atom. Lower heteroalkyl may be saturated or unsaturated. Preferred lower heteroalkyl are saturated. Lower heteroalkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or about two substituents. Preferred substituents on lower heteroalkyl include cyano halo trifluoromethyl and hydroxyl.

 Mi heteroalkyl is a heteroalkyl chain having i member atoms. For example M4 heteroalkyls contain one or two non adjacent heteroatom member atoms. M4 heteroalkyls containing 1 heteroatom member atom may be saturated or unsaturated with one double bond cis or trans or one triple bond. Preferred M4 heteroalkyl containing 2 heteroatom member atoms are saturated. Preferred unsaturated M4 heteroalkyl have one double bond. M4 heteroalkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or two substituents. Preferred substituents include lower alkyl lower heteroalkyl cyano halo and haloalkyl.

 Member atom refers to a polyvalent atom e.g. C O N or S atom in a chain or ring system that constitutes apart of the chain or ring. For example in cresol six carbon atoms are member atoms of the ring and the oxygen atom and the carbon atom of the methyl substituent are not member atoms of the ring.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a cationic salt formed at any acidic e.g. hydroxamic or carboxylic acid group or an anionic salt formed at any basic e.g. amino or guanidino group. Such salts are well known in the art. See e.g. World Patent Publication 87 05297 Johnston et al. published Sep. 11 1987 incorporated herein by reference. Such salts are made by methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art. It is recognized that the skilled artisan may prefer one salt over another for improved solubility stability formulation ease price and the like. Determination and optimization of such salts is within the purview of the skilled artisan s practice. Preferred cations include the alkali metals such as sodium and potassium and alkaline earth metals such as magnesium and calcium and organic cations such as trimethylammonium tetrabutylammonium etc. Preferred anions include halides such as chloride sulfonates carboxylates phosphates and the like. Clearly contemplated in such salts are addition salts that may provide an optical center where once there was none. For example a chiral tartrate salt may be prepared from the compounds of the invention. This definition includes such chiral salts.

 Phenyl is a six membered monocyclic aromatic ring that may or may not be substituted with from 1 to 5 substituents. The substituents may be located at the ortho meta or para position on the phenyl ring or any combination thereof. Preferred phenyl substituents include halo cyano lower alkyl heteroalkyl haloalkyl phenyl phenoxy or any combination thereof. More preferred substituents on the phenyl ring include halo and haloalkyl. The most preferred substituent is halo.

The terms polycyclyl and polycyclic group refer to two or more rings e.g. cycloalkyls cycloalkenyls heteroaryls aryls and or heterocyclyls in which two or more member atoms of one ring are member atoms of a second ring. Rings that are joined through non adjacent atoms are termed bridged rings and rings that are joined through adjacent atoms are fused rings .

The term sulfate is art recognized and includes a moiety that can be represented by the general formula 

A substitution or substituent on a small organic molecule generally refers to a position on a multivalent atom bound to a moiety other than hydrogen e.g. a position on a chain or ring exclusive of the member atoms of the chain or ring. Such moieties include those defined herein and others as are known in the art for example halogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl azide haloalkyl hydroxyl carbonyl such as carboxyl alkoxycarbonyl formyl ketone or acyl thiocarbonyl such as thioester thioacetate or thioformate alkoxyl phosphoryl phosphonate phosphinate amine amide amidine imine cyano nitro azido sulfhydryl alkylthio sulfate sulfonate sulfamoyl sulfonamido sulfonyl silyl ether cycloalkyl heterocyclyl heteroalkenyl and heteroalkynyl heteroaralkyl aralkyl aryl or heteroaryl. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that certain substituents such as aryl heteroaryl alkoxy alkylamino alkyl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl heteroalkenyl and heteroalkynyl can themselves be substituted if appropriate. This invention is not intended to be limited in any manner by the permissible substituents of organic compounds. It will be understood that substitution or substituted with includes the implicit proviso that such substitution is in accordance with permitted valence of the substituted atom and the substituent and that the substitution results in a stable compound e.g. which does not spontaneously undergo transformation such as by rearrangement cyclization hydrolysis etc.

As used herein the definition of each expression e.g. alkyl m n etc. when it occurs more than once in any structure is intended to be independent of its definition elsewhere in the same structure.

The abbreviations Me Et Ph Tf Nf Ts and Ms represent methyl ethyl phenyl trifluoromethanesulfonyl nonafluorobutanesulfonyl p toluenesulfonyl and methanesulfonyl respectively. A more comprehensive list of the abbreviations utilized by organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art appears in the first issue of each volume of the Journal of Organic Chemistry this list is typically presented in a table entitled Standard List of Abbreviations. The abbreviations contained in said list and all abbreviations utilized by organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art are hereby incorporated by reference.

For purposes of this invention the chemical elements are identified in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements CAS version Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 67th Ed. 1986 87 inside cover. Also for purposes of this invention the term hydrocarbon is contemplated to include all permissible compounds or moieties having at least one carbon hydrogen bond. In a broad aspect the permissible hydrocarbons include acyclic and cyclic branched and unbranched carbocyclic and heterocyclic aromatic and nonaromatic organic compounds which can be substituted or unsubstituted.

Contemplated equivalents of the compounds described above include compounds which otherwise correspond thereto and which have the same useful properties thereof wherein one or more simple variations of substituents are made which do not adversely affect the efficacy of the compound. In general the compounds of the present invention may be prepared by the methods illustrated in the general reaction schemes as for example described below or by modifications thereof using readily available starting materials reagents and conventional synthesis procedures. In these reactions it is also possible to make use of variants that are in themselves known but are not mentioned here.

In certain embodiments the subject method employs a fluorescent dye having a structure of the formula 

In certain embodiments wherein two occurrences of R taken together form a ring the ring is six membered e.g. the fluorescent dye has a structure of formula 

Dyes representative of this formula include IRDye78 IRDye80 IRDye38 IRDye40 IRDye41 IRDye700 IRDye800 Cy7 AP Biotech and compounds formed by conjugating a second molecule to any such dye e.g. a protein or nucleic acid conjugated to IRDye800 IRDye40 or Cy7 etc. The IRDyes are commercially available from Li Cor Biosciences of Lincoln Nebr. and each dye has a specified peak absorption wavelength also referred to herein as the excitation wavelength and peak emission wavelength that may be used to select suitable optical hardware for use therewith. It will be appreciated that other dyes may also be used including the far red dyes noted above provided suitable adjustments are made to the visible light imaging components of the system and other near infrared dyes or infrared substances such as the previously mentioned quantum dots. Several specific dyes suited for specific imaging techniques are now described.

IRDye78 CA is useful for imaging the vasculature of the tissues and organs. The dye in its small molecule form is soluble in blood and has an in vivo early half life of several minutes. This permits multiple injections during a single procedure. Indocyanine green has similar characteristics but is somewhat less soluble in blood and has a shorter half life IRDye78 may also be used in other imaging applications since it can be conjugated to tumor specific ligands for tumor visualization. More generally IRDye78 may be linked to an antibody antibody fragment or ligand associated with a tumor. Presence of the tumor or lesion may then be visualized using the techniques described above.

As another example IR 786 partitions efficiently into mitochondria and or endoplasmic reticulum in a concentration dependent manner thus permitting blood flow and ischemia visualization in a living heart. The dye has been successfully applied for example to image blood flow in the heart of a living laboratory rat after a thoracotomy. More generally IR 786 may be used for non radioactive imaging of areas of ischemia in the living heart or other visualization of the viability of other tissues.

While a number of suitable dyes have been described it should be appreciated that such fluorescent dyes are examples only and that more generally any fluorescent substance may be used with the imaging systems described herein provided the substance has an emission wavelength that does not interfere with visible light imaging. This includes the fluorescent dyes described above as well as substances such as quantum dots which may have emission wavelengths above 1000 nm and may be associated with an antibody antibody fragment or ligand and imaged in vivo. All such substances are referred to herein as fluorescent substances and it will be understood that suitable modifications may be made to components of the imaging system for use with any such fluorescent substance.

The lens may be any lens suitable for receiving light from the surgical field and focusing the light for image capture by the near infrared camera and the video camera . The lens may include one or more optical coatings suitable for the wavelengths to be imaged and may provide for manual electronically assisted manual or automatic control of zoom and focus.

The first filter may be positioned in the image path from the lens such that a visible light image having one or more visible light wavelengths is directed toward the video camera either by reflection or transmittance. An emission image from the excited dye passes through the lens and is directed toward the near infrared camera again either through reflection or transmittance. A number of arrangements of the cameras and the first filter are possible and may involving reflecting or transmitting either the visible light image or the emission wavelength image.

In one embodiment IRDye78 CA carboxylic acid having a peak absorption near 771 nm and a peak emission near 806 nm is used with the system . In this embodiment the first filter may be a 785 nm dichroic mirror that transmits near infrared light and reflects visible light. The first filter may be positioned within an image path from the lens such that a visible light image of the surgical field is reflected toward the video camera through the third filter . The third filter may be for example a 400 nm 700 nm light filter. At the same time the first filter is positioned with the image path from the lens such that a near infrared image i.e. the excitation wavelength image is transmitted toward the near infrared camera through the second filter . The second filter may be an 810 nm 20 nm near infrared emission filter. The filters may be standard or custom ordered optical components which are commercially available from optical component suppliers Other arrangements of filters and other optical components may be used with the system described herein.

The near infrared camera may be any still or moving image camera suitable for capturing images at the emission wavelength of the excited dye . The near infrared camera may be for example an Orca ER near infrared camera with settings of gain 7 2 2 binning 640 480 pixel field of view and an exposure time of 20 msec and an effective frame rate of fifteen frames per second. The Orca ER is commercially available from Hamamatsu Photonic Systems of Bridgewater N.J. It will be understood that the near infrared camera of is only an example. An infrared camera a far red camera or some other camera or video device may be used to capture an emission wavelength image with the camera and any associated filters selected according to the wavelength of a corresponding fluorescent substance used with the imaging system. As used herein the term emission wavelength camera is intended to refer to any such camera that may be used with the systems described herein.

The video camera may be any video camera suitable for capturing images of the surgical field in the visible light spectrum. In one embodiment the video camera is a color video camera model HV D27 commercially available from Hitachi of Tarrytown N.Y. The video camera may capture red green blue RGB images at thirty frames per second at a resolution of 640 480 pixels. More generally the near infrared camera and the video camera may be any device capable of photonic detection and conversion to electronic images including linear photodiode arrays charge coupled device arrays scanning photomultiplier tubes and so forth.

The display may be a television high definition television computer monitor or other display configured to receive and render signals from the image processing unit . The surgical field may also be a neurosurgical site with a surgical microscope used to view the surgical field . In this embodiment the display may be a monocular or binocular eyepiece of the surgical microscope with the near infrared image superimposed on the visible light image in the eyepiece. In another embodiment the eyepiece may use direct optical coupling of the surgical field to the eyepiece for conventional microscopic viewing with the near infrared image projected onto the eyepiece using for example heads up display technology.

The image processing unit may include any software and or hardware suitable for receiving images from the cameras processing the images as desired and transmitting the images to the display . In one embodiment the image processing unit is realized in software on a Macintosh computer equipped with a Digi 16 Snapper frame grabber for the Orca ER commercially available from DataCell of North Billerica Massachussets and equipped with a CG 7 frame grabber thr the HV D27 commercially available from Scion of Frederick Md. and using IPLab software commercially available from Sanalytics of Fairfax Va. While a Macintosh may be used in one embodiment any general purpose computer may be programmed to perform the image processing functions described herein including an Intel processor based computer or a computer using hardware from Sun Microsystems Silicon Graphics or any other microprocessor manufacturer.

Generally the image processing unit should be capable of digital filtering gain adjustment color balancing and any other conventional image processing functions. The image from the near infrared camera is also typically shifted into the visible light range for display at some prominent wavelength e.g. a color distinct from the visible light colors of the surgical field so that a superimposed image will clearly depict the dye. The image processing unit may also perform image processing to combine the image from the near infrared camera and the video camera . Where the images are displayed side by side this may simply entail rendering the images in suitable locations on a computer screen. Where the images are superimposed a frame rate adjustment may be required. That is if the video camera is capturing images at the conventional rate of thirty frames per second and the near infrared camera is taking still pictures with an effective frame rate of fifteen frames per second some additional processing may be required to render the superimposed images concurrently. This may entail either reducing the frame rate of the video camera to the frame rate of the near infrared camera either by using every other frame of video data or averaging or otherwise interpolating video data to a slower frame rate. This may instead entail increasing the frame rate of the near infrared image data either by holding each frame of near infrared data over successive frames of video data or extrapolating near infrared data such as by warping the near infrared image according to changes in the video image or employing other known image processing techniques.

Generally any combination of software or hardware may be used in the image processing unit . The functions of the image processing unit may be realized for example in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory such as read only memory programmable read only memory electronically erasable programmable read only memory random access memory dynamic random access memory double data rate random access memory. Rambus direct random access memory flash memory or any other volatile or non volatile memory for storing program instructions program data and program output or other intermediate or final results. The functions may also or instead include one or more application specific integrated circuits programmable gate arrays programmable array logic devices or any other device or devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. Any combination of the above circuits and components whether packaged discretely as a chip as a chipset or as a die may be suitably adapted to use with the systems described herein.

It will further be appreciated that each function of the image processing unit may be realized as computer executable code created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or Java or any other high level or low level programming language that may be compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software. The image processing unit may be deployed using software technologies or development environments including a mix of software languages such as Java C Oracle databases SQL and so forth. It will be further appreciated that the functions of the image processing unit may be realized in hardware software or some combination of these.

In one embodiment the visible light source is a near infrared depleted visible light source the excitation light source is a 771 nm 250 mW laser diode the dye is indocyanine green or IRDye78 CA the first filter is a 785 nm dichroic mirror configured to transmit near infrared light and reflect visible light the second filter is an 810 nm 20 nm near infrared emission filter and the third filter is a 400 nm to 700 nm filter. The image processing unit is a computer with software for image capture from the near infrared camera and the video camera for making suitable color adjustment to the images from the near infrared camera for making frame rate adjustments to the video camera image and for combining the two images for superimposed display on the display .

The systems described above have numerous surgical applications. For example the system may be deployed as an aid to cardiac surgery where it may be used intraoperatively for direct visualization of cardiac blood flow for direct visualization of myocardium at risk for infarction and for image guided placement of gene therapy and other medicinals to areas of interest. The system may be deployed as an aid to oncological surgery where it may be used for direct visualization of tumor cells in a surgical field or for image guided placement of gene therapy and other medicinals to an area of interest. The system may be deployed as an aid to general surgery for direct visualization of any function amenable to imaging with fluorescent dyes including blood flow and tissue viability. In dermatology the system may be used for sensitive detection of malignant cells or other skin conditions and for non surgical diagnosis of dermatological diseases using near infrared ligands and or antibodies.

The imaging system for use as an endoscopic tool may further include a first lens collimator for the visible light source a second lens collimator for the excitation light source an optical coupler that combines the excitation light and the visible light a dichroic mirror and an endoscope having a first cavity and a second cavity .

The first lens collimator the second lens collimator and the optical coupler serve to combine the excitation light and the visible light into a single light source. This light source is coupled into the first cavity through the dichroic mirror . In one embodiment the dichroic mirror preferably provides fifty percent reflection of light having wavelengths from 400 nm to 700 nm in order to optimize an intensity of visible light that reaches the video camera after illuminating the surgical field and passing through the dichroic mirror on its return path to the video camera . The dichroic mirror also preferably has greater than ninety percent reflection of wavelength from the excitation light source such as between 700 nm and 785 nm so that these wavelengths are not transmitted to the cameras after reflecting off the surgical field. Using this arrangement visible and excitation light sources share the first cavity of the endoscope with the return light path for a visible light image and an emission wavelength image.

The second cavity of the endoscope may be provided for insertion of a tool such as an optical tool like a laser for irradiation of a site in the surgical field or a physical tool like an instrument for taking a biopsy of tissue within the surgical field. By combining the optical paths of the imaging system within a single cavity of the endoscope the combined gauge of the first cavity for imaging and the second cavity may be advantageously reduced.

The imaging system may instead be used with a laparoscope. Typically a laparoscope is inserted into a body cavity through an incision as distinguished from an endoscope which is inserted through an existing body opening such as the throat or rectum. A laparoscope has a different form factor than an endoscope including different dimensional requirements. Furthermore use of a laparoscope involves at least one additional step of making an incision into a body so that the laparoscope may be inserted into a body cavity. The laparoscope may be used with any of the imaging systems described above and the imaging system of in particular would provide the benefit of a narrower bore for illumination and imaging optics It will further be appreciated that the imaging system may be used to simplify imaging devices other than endoscopes and laparoscopes such as by providing an integrated coaxial illumination and image capture device using the techniques described above.

In addition to the surgical applications noted above in reference to the endoscopic tool of may be used for direct visualization of malignant or pre malignant areas within a body cavity or for image guided placement of gene therapy and other medicinals to an area of interest within the body cavity.

The images may be displayed separately as the visible light tissue image and the near infrared image . Or the images may be combined into a combined image by the image processing unit described above. The combined image may then be used as an aid to the procedures described above or to any other surgical or diagnostic procedure that might benefit from the dye based imaging techniques described herein.

It will be appreciated that the above functionality is merely illustrative and that other dyes imaging hardware and optics may be usefully deployed with the imaging systems described herein. For example an endoscopic tool may employ a still image imaging system for diagnostic photography within a body cavity. Or any of the imaging systems may be used as described above with excitation and or emission wavelengths in the far red spectrum. Through minor adaptations that would be clear to one of ordinary skill in the art the system could be configured to image two or more functions i.e. tumor and blood flow at the same time that a visible light image is captured by associating each function with a different dye having a different emission wavelength. Non medical applications exist for the imaging system. For example dyes in a solution form may be sprayed on a mechanical component to identify oxidation surface defects or the like. Dyes could also be used to track gas steam or air flow through a pressurized system and in particular to identify leaks around fittings and valves. These and other arrangements and adaptations of the subject matter discussed herein are intended to fall within the scope of the invention. By way of example a multi channel imaging system applying the principles above is now described in greater detail.

In general a medical imaging system may include a visible light source providing light over a range of wavelengths that includes one or more wavelengths of visible light and an excitation light source providing light at one or more wavelengths outside the range of wavelengths of the visible light source. The one or more wavelengths are selected to excite one or more fluorescent substances which emit fluorescence photons at different emission wavelengths. The system further includes an electronic imaging device an optical guide that couples the image to the electronic image capture device such as NIR and visible light color cameras and at least two dichroic mirrors or filters for separating the visible light from the two or more NIR wavelengths in the optical path of the system.

The imaging system may include a light source including a visible light source and one or more different wavelength excitation light sources which in the described exemplary embodiment are implemented as high power white NIR 1 and NIR 2 light emitting diodes LEDs . In general a variety of techniques may be employed to obtain light of a desired wavelength or range of wavelengths from light emitting diodes. This may include for example filtering mixing wavelength shifting such as with phosphors or the like and so forth. Any suitable techniques for obtaining LED output of the desired wavelengths and sufficient intensity or more generally for obtaining illumination of the desired wavelengths and sufficient intensity may be employed with the systems described herein. In one embodiment the light source may include white LEDs conditioned to output light between 400 and 650 nm NIR 1 LEDs conditioned to output light at 670 nm and NIR 2 LEDs conditioned to output light at 760 nm. It will be understood that while specified as discrete wavelengths. LED and other light sources typically provide a range of wavelengths and the specific wavelengths referred to herein are intended to describe light sources having a peak output at or substantially near the specified wavelength or range of wavelengths . Additionally a cooling plate or other active or passive heat dissipation system may be incorporated into the light source to prevent or reduce overheating of the various light source elements. The system also includes an optional cooling stage for cooling a sample not shown positioned on a microscope stage or the like. The light source s may be directed focused diffused or conditioned using appropriate filters lenses and the like to illuminate a subject with desired light.

The system may also include a return optical path along with focusing optics such as a lens and other optics zoom focus autofocus pan aperture etc. that may be controlled automatically or manually to obtain images from the subject.

A first dichroic mirror also referred to herein as a filter may reflect visible light toward a video camera such as a color video camera as indicated by an arrow . The first dichroic mirror may also transmit or pass light corresponding to the two diagnostic image wavelengths as indicated by an arrow . These excitation wavelengths referred to herein as EXC 1 and EXC 2 corresponding to NIR 1 and NIR 2 respectively may be any suitable wavelengths transmitted by the first dichroic mirror such as substantially 700 nm and substantially 800 nm respectively.

A second dichroic mirror may separate the excitation wavelengths into a first path for EXC 1 as indicated by a first arrow and a second path for EXC 2 as indicated by a second arrow .

A first NIR camera which may be a camera sensitive to approximately 700 nm may receive the EXC 1 image on the first path . An image intensifier and or other optics may be employed to fbcus intensify filter or otherwise process the EXC 1 image. For example a titter may be employed to remove or reduce light above and or below the EXC 1 wavelength such as a filter that passes 689 725 nm. As another example zoom or focus adjustment may be applied to compensate for reflected image shifts caused by the sputtering processes used to manufacture certain dichroic mirrors.

A second NIR camera which may be a camera sensitive to approximately 800 nm may receive the EXC 2 image on the second path . An image intensifier and or other optics may be employed to focus intensify filter or otherwise process the EXC 2 image. The image intensifier may be particularly suitable addition for the second NIR camera in order to compensate for decreasing sensitivity of CCD imaging hardware at longer wavelengths. As another example a filter may be employed to remove or reduce light above and or below the EXC 2 wavelength such as a filter that passes 800 948 nm. As another example zoom or focus adjustment may be applied to compensate for reflected image shifts caused by the sputtering processes used to manufacture certain dichroic mirrors.

The system may be employed along with suitable computer hardware and software to provide real time overlay of anatomy and two different functional images. The system provides a number of advantages. The lighting and imaging systems may be operated substantially continuously at conventional video rates without switched lighting offset image sampling or other complex hardware. This also mitigates thermal dissipation problems associated with high power high speed switching that might otherwise be required. The system provides sufficient sensitivity to the NIR 1 EXC 1 and NIR 2 EXC 2 optical paths to operate in an area exposed to ambient light. Thus in one aspect an imaging system for use in open surgical procedures is disclosed herein. The techniques described herein may also be adapted for use in endoscopic laparoscopic or other systems that offer a surgical field closed to ambient light where multiple diagnostic image channels may also usefully be employed.

In one aspect the visible light image the first diagnostic image and the second diagnostic image captured by the system may be superimposed in various combinations tbr display as a surgical tool diagnostic aid and so forth. In general each one of the first diagnostic image and the second diagnostic image may identify different regions of interest using dyes targeted for tumors clots or any other condition tissue type or the like.

In one aspect circulation may be imaged using a dye in small molecule form in a first optical channel while a tumor or other region of interest may be imaged concurrently using a second dye containing a moiety for preferential uptake at the region of interest. A number of techniques are known for targeting dyes including combination with moieties having affinity for chemicals compounds tissue and so forth or components that sequester or have preferential uptake at regions or items of interest. All such techniques suitable for use with the dyes described herein may be suitable employed as one of the two or more diagnostic image channels described herein. Using such techniques diagnostic images may be usefully obtained for cranial nerves peripheral nerves bile ducts ureters thoracic duct and any other anatomical structures. Dyes may also be targeted to clots lesions tumors pre cancerous cells and so forth. It will be understood that showing or displaying a diagnostic image of an item e.g. cranial nerves as described herein is not intended to refer to incidental display of subject matter within a field of view. Rather showing a diagnostic image as described herein generally refers to capturing a fluorescent image targeted to the region of interest by a fluorescent dye and conversion to a readily visible pseudo color e.g. lime green or bright yellow that can be superimposed on a visible light image.

The images may be displayed separately as the visible light tissue image left hand column and the two near infrared images second and third column from left . Alternatively the two NIR 1 and NIR 2 images may be combined into a combined image right hand column through suitable image processing. The separate or combined images may be used as an aid to surgical or diagnostic procedures that might benefit from the dye based imaging techniques described herein.

It will be appreciated that the above functionality is merely illustrative and that other dyes imaging hardware and optics may be usefully deployed with the imaging systems described herein. For example excitation and or emission wavelengths may be in the far red spectrum. Through adaptations of the dichroic mirrors and or filter optical paths e.g. by positioning three or more dichroic mirrors also referred to herein as filters in the optical path the system can image more than two functions tumor and blood flow at the same time that a visible light image is captured by associating each function with a different dye having a different emission wavelength. These and other arrangements and adaptations of the subject matter discussed herein are intended to fall within the scope of the invention.

It should also be understood that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense. Thus while the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. It should be understood that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense and that the following claims should be interpreted in the broadest sense allowable by law.

