---

title: Departure sequencing systems and methods
abstract: A departure sequencing system models airport operations and provides suggested gate pushback times for aircraft. In various embodiments, a departure sequencing system includes an airport state analyzer, a taxi-out predictor, and a pushback optimizer. The departure sequencing system may utilize stochastic models, and resolve aircraft conflicts using a business rules engine. Via use of the departure sequencing system, taxi times may be reduced, taxi fuel burn may be reduced, and airport throughput may be increased.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09437114&OS=09437114&RS=09437114
owner: US AIRWAYS, INC.
number: 09437114
owner_city: Tempe
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The present disclosure generally relates to operational modeling and more particularly to analysis methods and tools suitable for use in airline and airport ground control and air traffic control.

Airports are typically managed with a goal to achieve high flight throughput and minimize delays. When a flight is ready to depart the pilot requests pushback from the gate. The request is evaluated by the ramp controller and once pushback is allowed the flight is pushed back from the gate and taxis to the runway for takeoff.

At an airport taxi delays are primarily caused by an imbalance between airport capacity and demand. Additionally the clustering of flights into bank structures for example by airlines utilizing a hub and spoke model contributes to the imbalance between demand and capacity. Up to a certain point as the number of aircraft in an active taxi state increases so does airport throughput. However as the number of aircraft in a taxi state increases further eventually saturation is observed such that additional flights released for pushback result in increased taxi time and decreased airport throughput. Accordingly improved airport air and surface flow management tools remain desirable.

In an embodiment a method comprises modeling by a processor for departure sequencing aircraft ground traffic at an airport over a simulation time horizon. The airport ground traffic comprises a plurality of aircraft scheduled for departure during the simulation time horizon. The method further comprises determining by the processor a suggested gate pushback time for each of the plurality of aircraft.

In another embodiment a method for departure sequencing comprises creating a graph network representation of an airport associating business rules to state transitions in the graph network repeatedly executing by a processor for departure sequencing the graph network representation to obtain suggested gate pushback times for a plurality of flights and calibrating by the processor a parameter of the graph network representation utilizing historical flight information for the airport.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium has computer executable instructions stored thereon that in response to execution by a processor for departure sequencing causes the processor to perform operations comprising modeling by the processor aircraft ground traffic at an airport over a simulation time horizon wherein the airport ground traffic comprises a plurality of aircraft scheduled for departure during the simulation time horizon and determining by the processor a suggested gate pushback time for each of the plurality of aircraft.

The contents of this summary section are provided only as a simplified introduction to the disclosure and are not intended to be used to limit the scope of the appended claims.

The following description is of various embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the present disclosure in any way. Rather the following description is intended to provide a convenient illustration for implementing various embodiments including the best mode. As will become apparent various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of the elements described in these embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure or appended claims.

For the sake of brevity conventional techniques for departure sequencing operations management statistical analysis process optimization software application development and or the like may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical or communicative couplings between various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical or communicative connections may be present in a practical departure sequencing system.

Airlines and airports continually face challenges associated with efficient utilization of limited resources for example planes runways etc. Typically a ramp controller will release a flight for pushback when a pushback request is received provided sufficient space exists in the taxi queue. However the number of flights in a taxi condition often reaches a saturation point before the physical space in the taxi queue is depleted. Stated another way it is usually possible to accommodate more flights in a taxi queue than an optimal number for throughput purposes.

Accordingly releasing an excessive number of flights for pushback leads to excessive taxi time for example as illustrated in . Excessive taxi time leads directly to increased expenses associated with fuel burn flight delays crew compensation missed connections and or the like. In it can be seen that airport throughput initially increases as more flights are released for pushback but as still more flights are released for pushback throughput plateaus and then declines and variability increases.

In contrast principles of the present disclosure contemplate improved departure scheduling methods and systems. By evaluating the airport state and implementing informed pushback decisions ramp controllers can achieve improved airport throughput reduce crew expenses reduce fuel burn expenses and associated environmental impacts and or the like.

While the present disclosure discusses airlines flights pilots flight attendants ramp controllers air traffic controllers and or the like for purposes of convenience and illustration one of skill in the art will appreciate that the departure sequencing methods systems and tools disclosed herein are broadly applicable for example to any industry wherein improved throughput is desirable.

Various embodiments of principles of the present disclosure employ forecasting statistical analysis and or optimization techniques. For more information regarding such techniques refer to for example The Theory and Practice of Revenue Management International Series in Operations Research Management Science by Kalyan T. Talluri and Garrett J. van Ryzin Using Multivariate Statistics 5th Edition by Barbara G. Tabachnick and Linda S. Fidell and Introduction to Operations Research by Friedrich S. Hiller and Gerald J. Lieberman McGraw Hill 7th edition Mar. 22 2002 the contents of which are each hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

In various embodiments exemplary departure sequencing systems include a user interface UI software modules logic engines various databases interfaces to systems and tools and or computer networks. While exemplary departure sequencing systems may contemplate upgrades or reconfigurations of existing processes and or systems changes to existing databases and system tools are not necessarily required by principles of the present disclosure.

The benefits provided by principles of the present disclosure include for example reduced fuel burn increased airport throughput decreased crew expenses lower payroll costs increased employee utilization increased customer good will increased planning and operational efficiency increased employee morale and the like. For example an airport benefits from improved ramp controller performance increasing throughput. An airline benefits from reduced fuel burn expenses and reduced crew expenses. Customers benefit from reduced flight delays arising from excessive time in the taxi queue.

As used herein an entity may include any individual software program business organization government entity web site system hardware and or any other entity. A user may include any entity that interacts with a system and or participates in a process.

Turning now to in accordance with various embodiments a user may perform tasks such as requesting retrieving receiving updating analyzing and or modifying data. User may also perform tasks such as initiating manipulating interacting with or using a software application tool module or hardware and initiating receiving or sending a communication. User may interface with Internet server via any communication protocol device or method discussed herein known in the art or later developed. User may be for example a ramp controller a member of a crew planning organization a member of an operations research or systems analysis organization a downstream system an upstream system a third party system a system administrator and or the like.

In various embodiments a system may include a user interfacing with a departure sequencing system by way of a client . Departure sequencing system may be a partially or fully integrated system comprised of various subsystems modules and databases. Client comprises any hardware and or software suitably configured to facilitate entering accessing requesting retrieving updating analyzing and or modifying data. The data may include operational data e.g. schedules resources routes operational alerts weather etc. airport data for example taxi queue information runway information arriving and or departing flight information and or the like cost data forecasts historical data verification data asset e.g. airplane data regulatory data authentication data demographic data transaction data or any other suitable information discussed herein.

Client includes any device e.g. a computer which communicates in any manner discussed herein with departure sequencing system via any network or protocol discussed herein. Browser applications comprise Internet browsing software installed within a computing unit or system to conduct online communications and transactions. These computing units or systems may take the form of personal computers mobile phones personal digital assistants mobile email devices laptops notebooks hand held computers portable computers kiosks and or the like. Practitioners will appreciate that client may or may not be in direct contact with departure sequencing system . For example client may access the services of departure sequencing system through another server which may have a direct or indirect connection to Internet server . Practitioners will further recognize that client may present interfaces associated with a software application e.g. SAS analytic software or module that are provided to client via application graphical user interfaces GUIs or other interfaces and are not necessarily associated with or dependent upon Internet browsers or internet specific protocols.

User may communicate with departure sequencing system through a firewall for example to help ensure the integrity of departure sequencing system components. Internet server may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to facilitate communications between the client and one or more departure sequencing system components.

Firewall as used herein may comprise any hardware and or software suitably configured to protect departure sequencing system components from users of other networks. Firewall may reside in varying configurations including stateful inspection proxy based and packet filtering among others. Firewall may be integrated as software within Internet server or another system component or may reside within another computing device or may take the form of a standalone hardware component.

Authentication server may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to receive authentication credentials encrypt and decrypt credentials authenticate credentials and or grant access rights according to pre defined privileges associated with the credentials. Authentication server may grant varying degrees of application and or data level access to users based on information stored within authentication database and user database . Application server may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to serve applications and data to a connected client .

In accordance with various embodiments departure sequencing system is usable to model airport behavior taxi delays throughput and or the like generate recommendations for a ramp controller generate inputs to other forecasting systems and or evaluate proposed courses of action. Continuing to reference departure sequencing system allows communication with central data repository CDR and with various other databases tools UIs and systems for example external systems and databases . Such systems include for example airline scheduling systems air traffic control systems ground traffic control systems and or the like. In various embodiments external systems and databases include the Aerobahn surface management system offered by Saab Sensis.

Departure sequencing system components may be interconnected and communicate with one another to allow for a completely integrated departure sequencing system. In various embodiments departure sequencing system models airport behavior on a continuous and or real time basis. In other embodiments departure sequencing system models airport behavior on a discrete basis for example every fifteen seconds every thirty seconds every one minute every two minutes and or the like . Ramp controllers may make flight pushback decisions based at least in part upon output of and or guidance or suggestions received from departure sequencing system moreover pilots and other airline staff may make flight pushback requests based at least in part upon output of and or guidance or suggestions received from departure sequencing system .

In various embodiments certain departure sequencing system modules e.g. airport state analyzer taxi out predictor and or pushback optimizer are software modules configured to enable online functions such as sending and receiving messages receiving query requests configuring responses dynamically configuring user interfaces requesting data receiving data displaying data executing complex processes calculations forecasts mathematical techniques workflows and or algorithms prompting user verifying user responses authenticating the user initiating departure sequencing system processes initiating other software modules triggering downstream systems and processes encrypting and decrypting and or the like. Additionally departure sequencing system modules may include any hardware and or software suitably configured to receive requests from client for example via Internet server and application server . It will be appreciated that while airport state analyzer taxi out predictor and or pushback optimizer are illustrated as separate modules in in various embodiments components of departure sequencing system and or functionality thereof may be combined into fewer modules or components or alternatively divided into additional modules and or components.

Departure sequencing system modules may be further configured to process requests execute transactions construct database queries and or execute queries against databases within system e.g. CDR external data sources and or temporary databases. In various embodiments one or more departure sequencing system modules may be configured to execute application programming interfaces in order to communicate with a variety of messaging platforms such as email systems wireless communications systems mobile communications systems multimedia messaging service MMS systems short messaging service SMS systems and the like.

Departure sequencing system modules may be configured to exchange data with other systems and application modules for example a ground traffic control system and or the like. In various embodiments departure sequencing system modules may be configured to interact with other system components to perform complex calculations retrieve additional data format data into reports create XML representations of data construct markup language documents construct define or control UIs and or the like. Moreover departure sequencing system modules may reside as standalone systems or tools or may be incorporated with the application server or any other departure sequencing system component as program code. As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate departure sequencing system modules may be logically or physically divided into various subcomponents such as a workflow engine configured to evaluate predefined rules and to automate processes.

In addition to the components described above departure sequencing system may further include one or more of the following a host server or other computing systems including a processor for processing digital data a memory coupled to the processor for storing digital data an input digitizer coupled to the processor for inputting digital data an application program stored in the memory and accessible by the processor for directing processing of digital data by the processor a display device coupled to the processor and memory for displaying information derived from digital data processed by the processor a plurality of databases and or the like.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art one or more departure sequencing system components may be embodied as a customization of an existing system an add on product upgraded software a stand alone system e.g. kiosk a distributed system a method a data processing system a device for data processing and or a computer program product. Accordingly individual departure sequencing system components may take the form of an entirely software embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining aspects of both software and hardware. Furthermore individual departure sequencing system components may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disks optical storage devices e.g. DVD ROM CD ROM etc. electronic storage devices e.g. flash memory and or the like.

Client may include an operating system e.g. Windows UNIX Linux Solaris MacOS iOS Android Windows Mobile OS Windows CE Palm OS Symbian OS Blackberry OS J2ME etc. as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated with mobile devices and or computers. Client may be in any environment with access to any network including both wireless and wired network connections. In various embodiments access is through a network or the Internet through a commercially available web browser software package. Client and departure sequencing system components may be independently separately or collectively suitably coupled to the network via data links which include for example a connection to an Internet Service Provider ISP over the local loop as is typically used in connection with standard wireless communications networks and or methods such as modern communication cable modem satellite networks ISDN digital subscriber line DSL and or the like. In various embodiments any portion of client may be partially or fully connected to a network using a wired hard wire connection. As those skilled in the art will appreciate client and or any of the system components may include wired and or wireless portions.

In various embodiments components modules and or engines of departure sequencing system may be implemented as micro applications or micro apps. Micro apps are typically deployed in the context of a mobile operating system including for example a Palm mobile operating system a Windows mobile operating system an Android operating system Apple iOS a Blackberry operating system and the like. The micro app may be configured to leverage the resources of the larger operating system and associated hardware via a set of predetermined rules which govern the operations of various operating systems and hardware resources. For example where a micro app desires to communicate with a device or network other than the mobile device or mobile operating system the micro app may leverage the communication protocol of the operating system and associated device hardware under the predetermined rules of the mobile operating system. Moreover where the micro app desires an input from a user the micro app may be configured to request a response from the operating system which monitors various hardware components and then communicates a detected input from the hardware to the micro app.

Internet server may be configured to transmit data to client within markup language documents. Data may include encompassing information such as commands messages transaction requests queries files data for storage and or the like in digital or any other form. Internet server may operate as a single entity in a single geographic location or as separate computing components located together or in separate geographic locations. Further Internet server may provide a suitable web site or other Internet based graphical user interface which is accessible by users such as user . In various embodiments Microsoft Internet Information Server IIS Microsoft Transaction Server MTS and Microsoft SQL Server are used in conjunction with a Microsoft operating system Microsoft NT web server software a Microsoft SQL Server database system and a Microsoft Commerce Server. In various embodiments the well known LAMP stack Linux Apache MySQL and PHP Perl Python are used to enable departure sequencing system . Additionally components such as Access or Microsoft SQL Server Oracle Sybase InterBase etc. may be used to provide an Active Data Object ADO compliant database management system.

Like Internet server application server may communicate with any number of other servers databases and or components through any means known in the art. Further application server may serve as a conduit between client and the various systems and components of departure sequencing system . Internet server may interface with application server through any means known in the art including a LAN WAN for example. Application server may further invoke software modules such as airport state analyzer taxi out predictor and or pushback optimizer automatically or in response to user requests.

Any of the communications inputs storage databases or displays discussed herein may be facilitated through a web site having web pages. The term web page as it is used herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that may be used to interact with the user. For example a typical web site may include in addition to standard HTML documents various forms Java applets JavaScript active server pages ASP common gateway interface scripts CGI Flash files or modules FLEX ActionScript extensible markup language XML dynamic HTML cascading style sheets CSS helper applications plug ins and or the like. A server may include a web service that receives a request from a web server the request including a URL e.g. http yahoo.com and or an internet protocol IP address. The web server retrieves the appropriate web pages and sends the data or applications for the web pages to the IP address. Web services are applications that are capable of interacting with other applications over a communications means such as the Internet. Web services are typically based on standards or protocols such as XML SOAP WSDL and UDDI. Web services methods are well known in the art and are covered in many standard texts. See e.g. Alex Nghiem IT Web Services A Roadmap for the Enterprise 2003 .

Continuing to reference illustrated are databases that are included in various embodiments. An exemplary list of various databases used herein includes an authentication database a user database CDR and or other databases that aid in the functioning of the system. As practitioners will appreciate while depicted as separate and or independent entities for the purposes of illustration databases residing within departure sequencing system may represent multiple hardware software database data structure and networking components. Furthermore embodiments are not limited to the databases described herein nor do embodiments necessarily utilize each of the disclosed databases.

Authentication database may store information used in the authentication process such as for example user identifiers passwords access privileges user preferences user statistics and the like. User database maintains user information and credentials for departure sequencing system users e.g. user .

In various embodiments CDR is a data repository that may be configured to store a wide variety of comprehensive data for departure sequencing system . While depicted as a single logical entity in those of skill in the art will appreciate that CDR may in various embodiments consist of multiple physical and or logical data sources. In various embodiments CDR stores taxi queue data operational data schedules resource data asset data inventory data personnel information routes and route plans station e.g. airports or other terminals data operational alert data weather information passenger data reservation data cost data optimization scenarios optimization results simulation results booking class data forecasts historical data verification data authentication data demographic data legal data regulatory data transaction data security profiles access rules content analysis rules audit records predefined rules process definitions financial data and the like. For example a data source or component database of CDR includes but is not limited to the airport arrival departure configuration a list of aircraft on the airport surface aircraft location and speed including aircraft history information incoming aircraft forecast information aircraft pushback candidate information and or the like.

Any databases discussed herein may include relational hierarchical graphical or object oriented structure and or any other database configurations. Common database products that may be used to implement the databases include DB2 by IBM Armonk N.Y. various database products available from Oracle Corporation Redwood Shores Calif. Microsoft Access or Microsoft SQL Server by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. MySQL by MySQL AB Uppsala Sweden Ehcache Couchbase VoltDB Versant Hazelcast or any other suitable database product for example a persistent and distributed in memory database product. Moreover the databases may be organized in any suitable manner for example as data tables or lookup tables. Each record may be a single file a series of files a linked series of data fields or any other data structure. Association of certain data may be accomplished through any desired data association technique such as those known or practiced in the art. For example the association may be accomplished either manually or automatically. Automatic association techniques may include for example a database search a database merge GREP AGREP SQL using a key field in the tables to speed searches sequential searches through all the tables and files sorting records in the file according to a known order to simplify lookup and or the like. The association step may be accomplished by a database merge function for example using a key field in pre selected databases or data sectors. Various database tuning steps are contemplated to optimize database performance. Examples include distributing data elements to grid memory optimizing partitioning of memory objects to process indexing frequently used files and placing on separate file systems to reduce In Out I O bottlenecks.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that for security reasons any databases systems devices servers or other components of system may consist of any combination thereof at a single location or at multiple locations wherein each database or system includes any of various suitable security features such as firewalls access codes encryption decryption compression decompression and or the like.

The systems and methods may be described herein in terms of functional block components screen shots optional selections and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the system may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. memory elements processing elements logic elements look up tables and the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. Similarly the software elements of the system may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as C C C Java JavaScript Flash ActionScript FLEX VBScript Macromedia Cold Fusion COBOL Microsoft Active Server Pages assembly PERL SAS PHP awk Python Visual Basic SQL Stored Procedures PL SQL any UNIX shell script and or extensible markup language XML or the like with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Further it should be noted that the system may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission signaling data processing network control and the like. Still further the system may be used to detect or prevent security issues with a client side scripting language such as JavaScript VBScript or the like.

Software elements may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable data processing means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified herein or in flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations can be implemented by either special purpose hardware based computer systems which perform the specified functions or steps or suitable combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further illustrations of the process flows and the descriptions thereof may make reference to user windows web pages web sites web forms prompts etc. Practitioners will appreciate that the illustrated steps described herein may comprise any number of configurations including the use of windows web pages web forms popup windows prompts and or the like. It should be further appreciated that the multiple steps as illustrated and described may be combined into single web pages and or windows but have been expanded for the sake of simplicity. In other cases steps illustrated and described as single process steps may be separated into multiple web pages and or windows but have been combined for simplicity.

With continued reference to in various embodiments user logs onto an application e.g. a module and Internet server may invoke an application server . Application server invokes logic in the departure sequencing system modules by passing parameters relating to user s requests for data. Departure sequencing system manages requests for data from departure sequencing system modules and or communicates with system components. Transmissions between user and Internet server may pass through a firewall to help ensure the integrity of departure sequencing system components. Practitioners will appreciate that exemplary embodiments may incorporate any number of security schemes or none at all. In various embodiments Internet server receives requests from client and interacts with various other system components to perform tasks related to requests from client .

Internet server may invoke an authentication server to verify the identity of user and assign roles access rights and or permissions to user . In order to control access to the application server or any other component of departure sequencing system Internet server may invoke an authentication server in response to user submissions of authentication credentials received at Internet server . In response to a request to access system being received from Internet server Internet server determines if authentication is required and transmits a prompt to client . User enters authentication data at client which transmits the authentication data to Internet server . Internet server passes the authentication data to authentication server which queries the user database for corresponding credentials. In response to user being authenticated user may access various applications and their corresponding data sources.

With reference now to in various embodiments departure sequencing system and or method utilize a model for departure sequencing configured to evaluate the effect of each flight pushback on airport operations. Moreover departure sequencing system is usable to extend situational awareness of ramp controllers to the whole airport operations covering both ground and airspace which may be controlled by air traffic control or other third parties .

In various embodiments departure sequencing system is configured with a discrete event simulation model configured to forecast taxi times and potential future gate conflicts. In various embodiments departure sequencing system comprises airport state analyzer taxi out predictor and pushback optimizer .

Airport state analyzer monitors airport configuration airspace restrictions take offs landings ramp and taxi movements and the like. Airport state analyzer may monitor on a continuous basis alternatively airport state analyzer may monitor on a discrete basis for example every 5 seconds every 10 seconds every 20 seconds and or the like . Functionally airport state analyzer estimates which of various profiles is suitable and or best to use for simulation parameters in departure sequencing system for example in taxi out predictor . Such parameters may include but are not limited to runway configuration and throughput rates aircraft ground speed runway procedures aircraft flows and various operating characteristics. In various embodiments simulation parameters generated by airport state analyzer cover the full simulation period of taxi out predictor. Moreover different sets of parameters may be utilized for different time periods of the simulation. For example a first set of parameters may be utilized for the first 15 minutes of the simulation and a second set of parameters may be utilized for the second 15 minutes of the simulation.

In various embodiments airport state analyzer communicates with CDR to obtain and or return suitable data for example airport operating characteristics and airport operating conditions which may be obtained from external sources for example the FAA air traffic control and or the like . Airport state information may include both the current live state of the airport as well as future state expectations for a given departure sequencing period for example 30 minutes . Additionally airport state information may be user defined in order for departure sequencing system to assess and or model hypothetical situations.

In some embodiments departure sequencing system comprises taxi out predictor . Taxi out predictor may be tightly coupled to a pushback optimizer .

In various embodiments departure sequencing system and or components thereof for example taxi out predictor utilizes a stochastic simulation model and is configured to evaluate a large number of simulation runs for a scenario provided by pushback optimizer for example 100 runs 500 runs 1000 runs and or the like in general any suitable number of runs may be utilized . A scenario is a forward looking simulation of an airport state including a defined set of pushback hold decisions for each aircraft. Airport state may be the current observed state of the airport airspace air traffic control environment future expectations and the like. Airport state may represent actual operating conditions airport state may also represent hypothetical conditions or parameters.

Taxi out predictor determines taxi out times for a given airport state for all departing flights i.e. at gate or already pushed back . Taxi out predictor may utilize a stochastic approach and determine estimated times via simulation historical information may also be utilized.

In various embodiments taxi out predictor simulates the current state of an airport multiple times for example 1000 times. For each simulation cycle taxi out predictor calculates each flight s simulated taxi time measures ground congestion i.e. aircraft density based on area and records taxi conflicts and gate conflicts which are resolved by a business rules engine. Taxi out predictor may provide expectations to a ramp controller for example estimates of each flight s taxi path taxi time and variance take off sequence and runway queue and status and congestion and conflicts based on a timeline.

In various embodiments components of departure sequencing system for example taxi out predictor is initialized with a snapshot of an airport state which may include location of aircraft on the airport surface location of aircraft on final approach estimated arrivals and departures within a simulation time horizon and or airport operating characteristics e.g. weather conditions airport runway configuration runway rates active taxi paths and or the like . Moreover departure sequencing system may utilize any suitable airport or airline information.

In various embodiments pushback optimizer is configured to generate a set of feasible pushback hold scenarios and return a list of one or more preferable and or optimal scenarios for example a best value scenario . To value scenarios pushback optimizer may be configured with a business objective function which may be updatable and or user defined that evaluates each pushback hold scenario. Exemplary objective functions include minimizing taxi times maximizing throughput or any other operational airport or airline performance objective or combination of objectives. Evaluation of the scenarios may be accomplished using a discrete event simulation model.

Pushback optimizer utilizes taxi out predictor which may be configured as a discrete event simulation model configured to forecast taxi paths taxi times potential future gate conflicts evaluate various pushback patterns and or the like. Based at least in part on the predicted taxi times pushback optimizer may assign pushback times for each flight. In various embodiments pushback optimizer evaluates alternative feasible pushback patterns. A pattern may be a set of hold release decisions for all flights expected to depart within a timeframe for example 5 minutes 10 minutes and or the like. A hold decision may comprise the number of minutes of hold for a flight as compared to immediate departure of the flight at the current time.

Pushback optimizer may provide results of various different courses of action which may be sorted and or ranked for example by value. A particular course of action may comprise suggested pushback time s for a flight or set of flights configured to optimize one or more business objectives. Thus pushback optimizer may be usable to create an optimal solution that maintains or increases airport throughput minimizes the number of ground or gate conflicts and maximizes the number of taxi minutes saved. In this manner a user may quickly evaluate a decision or set of potential decisions during ramp operations.

Departure sequencing system may present a recommended course of action for example recommended by pushback optimizer to a user for example a ramp controller via any suitable method for example a graphical user interface.

In this manner departure sequencing system can reduce and or minimize airport ramp congestion and or maximize airport throughput for any given airport state within a simulation time horizon. A simulation time horizon may be any suitable time horizon for example 15 minutes 30 minutes 45 minutes one hour and or the like. In various embodiments the model is based on and or utilizes actual airport and airspace rules and constraints. Historical data may be utilized to generate input parameters for departure sequencing system .

It will be appreciated that departure sequencing system and or components thereof may be initialized with actual information for example during live ramp operation additionally departure sequencing system may be initialized with hypothetical and or modeled information. Therefore departure sequencing system may suitably be utilized by decision makers for example ramp controllers and or external decision systems to evaluate various scenarios and or suggest courses of action either for real world events or for hypothetical scenarios.

In various embodiments after departure sequencing system is initialized taxi out predictor executes multiple replications for state transitions of aircraft within the simulation time horizon. The simulation time horizon may be any suitable time horizon but is commonly 30 minutes. During operation taxi out predictor simulates the movement of an arriving flight to its arrival gate and the movement of a departing flight to its runway.

For arrivals taxi out predictor may consider the initial state of an aircraft position to be anywhere between final approach and the planned arrival gate. Moreover any flight estimated to enter airport airspace within the simulated time horizon may similarly be included in the model. An arriving flight may be considered to be in the airspace i.e. between final approach and runways on the airport i.e. between runways and gates or more generally between a particular location and a gate or at a gate.

For departures taxi out predictor may consider the initial state of an aircraft position to be anywhere between its departure gate and runway. Moreover any flight scheduled for departure within the simulation time horizon may likewise be included in the model. A departing flight may be considered to be at a gate on the airport i.e. between gates and runway or more generally between a particular location and the runway or on a runway.

In various embodiments with momentary reference to in departure sequencing system and or components thereof for example taxi out predictor an airport simulation network may be constructed and or utilized in connection with method by creating a graph network representation of the airport step attaching business rules to network representations of state transitions step iteratively executing the graph network model to generate modeled results step and calibrating the network model using historical observations step . Based at least in part on different airport operating characteristics suitable calibrated parameters are created step .

In various embodiments in taxi out predictor an airport simulation network comprises a directed graph. In the network the following objects may be defined and utilized 

Node. A node is a location or spot on the airport. Nodes are connected by links and typically have no capacity. Nodes are typically placed to represent ground taxi path intersections airspace path intersections and or the like.

In various embodiments departure sequencing system and or components thereof for example taxi out predictor may utilize information about an airport from any suitable source for example airport architectural drawings public records survey information web based mapping utilities and or the like.

In taxi out predictor business rules may be applied to events state transitions and entities within a simulation framework. Business rules may be generated and or collected from any suitable source for example tower personnel at an airport FAA observations airline policies regulations and or the like.

In taxi out predictor each aircraft may be viewed as a single entity. Each aircraft has a potential event set for example LeaveGate MoveOnLink EnterNodeArea PassNode LeaveNodeArea TakeOff PassRwyNode EnterAirLink LandOnRwy and ExitRwy. In various embodiments additional and or fewer events may be included in an event set.

In operation of taxi out predictor each aircraft entity is registered in the simulation and a particular event list set of sequenced events is scheduled with business rules. In various embodiments for a departing aircraft entity the following events can be scheduled 

LeaveGate Schedules the flight s departure time and initializes the flight status. It may be modeled on Gate Node business rules.

In taxi out predictor MoveOnLink EnterNodeArea PassNode and LeaveNodeArea can be scheduled multiple times to model the taxi procedure for a single aircraft entity. PassRwyNode can also be scheduled multiple times to model the runway crossing for a single aircraft entity. Moreover any suitable events or combinations thereof may be utilized to model and or simulate airport ground and or air operations.

In various embodiments in taxi out predictor for an arrival aircraft entity the following events can be scheduled 

EnterAirLink Moves the arriving aircraft on the final approach airspace path. It will block associated runway s for departures at a pre defined distance and will also block runway crossings at a pre defined time to runway.

It will be appreciated that in departure sequencing system and or components thereof for example taxi out predictor in live ramp operations the foregoing events utilize information regarding real time airport characteristics including rates and configuration to drive simulation parameters.

In various embodiments taxi out predictor is configured with and or configured to utilize various entity business rules. In various embodiments taxi out predictor utilizes business rules associated with the following 

Aircraft Path. Before an aircraft moves its path may be obtained first. In airport operation aircraft taxi paths are typically pre defined by the FAA and or ramp control. Taxi out predictor may model such pre defined paths for example using a shortest path algorithm to cover the tremendously large combination of paths that can be taken. Moreover the actual path of an aircraft can vary among multiple possibilities taking any of the available taxi paths in airport operations. In taxi out predictor these pre defined paths and actual paths may be modeled statistically i.e. utilizing probability models and or algorithmically i.e. utilizing shortest path algorithms .

Pushback Time. In taxi out predictor gate areas may be separated into several pushback zones. Each zone has its own pushback time distribution which may be obtained from historical observations or other suitable data. Each gate node belongs to a pushback zone. As a result in taxi out predictor aircraft pushbacks may be modeled based on pushback zone characteristics.

Taxi Speed. In taxi out predictor the taxi paths of an airport may be separated into several different speed zones. Each zone has its own speed distribution which may be calculated from historical data or otherwise selected. Each ground link belongs to one taxi zone. When an aircraft is traveling on the ground link speed may be calculated based at least in part on the ground link s speed zone distribution.

Runway Procedures. In taxi out predictor runway procedures define separation of arriving and departing aircraft on the same or inter related runways. The separations may be obtained from historical observations for example based on aircraft types. TakeOff and LandOnRwy events may use these distributions to calculate simulated runway separations.

Departure sequencing system is usable as a decision support tool for example by a ramp controller in order to make decisions such as i release a flight for pushback or ii hold a flight at the gate. As a continually running service pushback optimizer may run and generate all feasible decisions by a ramp controller. When the ramp controller is tasked with making a decision departure sequencing system for example via client or any other suitable means can provide information to a ramp controller regarding an optimal recommendation to i release a flight for pushback or ii hold a flight at the gate.

Additionally departure sequencing system may provide an optimally valued suggested hold time for example 30 seconds one minute two minutes three minutes five minutes ten minutes and or the like before releasing a flight for pushback. In this manner departure sequencing system can reduce fuel costs by avoiding premature pushback and consequently reducing the amount of fuel burned while waiting in a taxi queue . Similarly departure sequencing system can reduce crew expenses for example pilot compensation expenses which may begin accruing once the cabin door is closed and the aircraft parking brake is released .

Via use of departure sequencing system improved and or optimal departure sequencing may be obtained without requiring change to current ramp practices or scheduling systems. Stated another way departure sequencing system provides current and or real time suggestions based on predictions of aircraft taxiing behavior and or performance allowing ramp controllers to make improved pushback decisions by utilizing real time decision support.

Departure sequencing system improves gate departure sequencing for ramp controllers. Additionally departure sequencing system maintains and increases runway throughput without gaps or separation. Yet further departure sequencing system optimizes delivery of aircraft in accordance with an airline s business objectives such as on time performance. Additionally departure sequencing system may be utilized to provide additional ground time for making passenger and bag connections which would otherwise not have been possible as the aircraft would be in the taxi queue rather than at the gate.

In various embodiments departure sequencing system may be configured to adhere to various general guidelines for example maintenance of a departing runway minimum queue size avoidance of a threshold for maximum departing runway queue size ensuring the hold time of any aircraft does not exceed a threshold reducing or eliminating gate conflicts for arriving aircraft and or the like.

In various embodiments departure sequencing system comprises software written in the Java programming language from Oracle Corporation and is operable on Java SE 1.7 update . In this embodiment departure sequencing system may have modest hardware requirements for example departure sequencing system may be operable on an Intel i5 2520M CPU or equivalent and utilize less than 1 GB of random access memory. Depending on operational characteristics and to adhere to desired response times for a user departure sequencing system may include a set of connected computational servers for example a computational server for each of pushback optimizer generating pushback scenarios airport state analyzer generating taxi simulation parameters and taxi out predictor determining the outcome of various scenarios.

Departure sequencing system is extensible to all aspects of an airport. Accordingly departure sequencing system is suitable for use with multi controller and multi runway airports.

In contrast to prior approaches departure sequencing system provides real time algorithmic situational awareness stochastic fast time simulation and business goal driven pushback optimization all without necessitating any change to ramp procedures scheduling procedures airport procedures or air traffic control procedures.

It will be appreciated that in various embodiments the simulation time horizon in departure sequencing system may be extended for example to 3 hours to forecast future periods of airport congestion and or to work with FAA air traffic control or other third parties to take actions for example implementing ground stop or ground delay programs to reduce mitigate and or eliminate potential gridlock situations.

Turning now to in accordance with various embodiments exemplary results of operation of departure sequencing system at one airport are illustrated. Over an exemplary 35 day period responsive to operation of departure sequencing system an average of 123 flights a day were held for between 1 and 15 minutes rather than being immediately released for pushback. The holds resulted in saving over the course of the 35 days over 22 500 minutes of taxi out time. Utilizing aircraft specific single engine taxi fuel burn rates for the held flights significant fuel savings were calculated as well with some days exceeding 3000 gallons of fuel saved per day. Annual estimated savings associated with reduced fuel burn alone were estimated to exceed 1.6M.

Principles and features of the present disclosure may suitably be combined with principles of revenue management for example as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 348 417 entitled Overbooking Forecasting and Optimization Methods and Systems filed on Jan. 11 2012 now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2013 0132128 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Principles and features of the present disclosure may suitably be combined with principles of forecasting demand modeling and or the like for example as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 791 672 entitled Demand Forecasting Systems and Methods Utilizing Unobscuring and Unconstraining filed on Mar. 8 2013 now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0257925 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 791 691 entitled Demand Forecasting Systems and Methods Utilizing Fare Adjustment filed on Mar. 8 2013 now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0257881 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 791 711 entitled Demand Forecasting Systems and Methods Utilizing Prime Class Remapping filed on Mar. 8 2013 now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0257882 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Principles and features of the present disclosure may also suitably be combined with principles of reserve forecasting for example as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 793 049 entitled Reserve Forecasting Systems and Methods filed on Mar. 11 2013 now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0257900 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

While the present disclosure may be described in terms of an airport an aircraft a gate a runway and so forth one skilled in the art can appreciate that similar features and principles may be applied to other transportation systems and vehicles such as for example buses trains ships trucks automobiles and or the like.

While the exemplary embodiments described herein are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice principles of the present disclosure it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that logical and or functional changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus the detailed description herein is presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation.

While the description references specific technologies system architectures and data management techniques practitioners will appreciate that this description is of various embodiments and that other devices and or methods may be implemented without departing from the scope of principles of the present disclosure. Similarly while the description references a user interfacing with the system via a computer user interface practitioners will appreciate that other interfaces may include mobile devices kiosks and handheld devices such as mobile phones smart phones tablet computing devices etc.

While the steps outlined herein represent exemplary embodiments of principles of the present disclosure practitioners will appreciate that there are any number of computing algorithms and user interfaces that may be applied to create similar results. The steps are presented for the sake of explanation only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure in any way. Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of any or all of the claims.

Systems methods and computer program products are provided. In the detailed description herein references to various embodiments one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to utilize such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described. After reading the description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement principles of the disclosure in alternative embodiments.

It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples indicating exemplary embodiments are given for purposes of illustration only and not as limitations. Many changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and principles of the present disclosure include all such modifications. Corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all elements are intended to include any structure material or acts for performing the functions in combination with other elements. Reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. Moreover when a phrase similar to at least one of A B or C or at least one of A B and C is used in the claims or the specification the phrase is intended to mean any of the following 1 at least one of A 2 at least one of B 3 at least one of C 4 at least one of A and at least one of B 5 at least one of B and at least one of C 6 at least one of A and at least one of C or 7 at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C.

