---

title: Systems and methods for presenting audio messages
abstract: Systems and methods for presenting audio messages are provided. In some aspects, a method includes receiving an audio message from a first user and generating a text-based representation of the audio message. The method also includes generating one or more identification tags based on the text-based representation of the audio message. At least one of the one or more identification tags includes a subject of the audio message. The method also includes presenting at least one of the text-based representation of the audio message or the one or more identification tags to a second user using a graphical user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08781080&OS=08781080&RS=08781080
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08781080
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130805
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 513 773 titled System and Method for Voicemail Organization filed on Aug. 31 2006 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 526 580 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Voicemail systems typically operate when a first person attempts to contact a second person though an audio communication link e.g. a telephone line but is unable to contact the second person. Using the voicemail system the first person can input a stream of audio data into a recording system that converts the audio data into digital and or analog signals that are stored as a message for later retrieval and playback by the second person.

Extracting valuable content from a number voicemail messages can be difficult at times. For example when the second person receives a large number of voicemail messages in a relatively short time person it may be impractical to listen to each voicemail message or the second person may delay listening to the messages until an opportune time such that time sensitive information in messages cannot be acted upon. Thus the person may ignore some or all voicemail messages or the content of the sender s message may never reach the second person. Furthermore some voicemail messages can be very long and the important content of the message may be buried near the end of the message or interspersed throughout the message such that the important content of the message may be difficult to ascertain in a short amount of time. Additionally cumbersome user interfaces with voicemail systems may render the systems ineffective especially for users who receive a large volume of voicemail messages.

According to one general aspect a method includes receiving a stream of voicemail data. A text based representation of a portion of the stream of voicemail data is generated. One or more identification tags from the stream of voicemail data and or the text based representation of the portion of the stream of voicemail data are obtained from a first user. The text based representation of the portion of the stream of voicemail data and the one or more identification tags are provided to a second user through a graphical user interface.

According to another general aspect a system includes a processor and a graphical user interface GUI . The processor is configured for i receiving a stream of voicemail audio data associated with a voicemail message created by a first user ii generating a text based representation of a portion of the stream of voicemail audio data iii obtaining one or more identification tags from at least one of the stream of voicemail data and the text based representation of the portion of the stream of voicemail data. The GUI is configured for providing the text based representation of the data and the one or more identification tags to a second user.

According to another general aspect a computer readable program includes computer executable instructions for causing a computer to receive a stream of voicemail audio data associated with a voicemail message created by a first user generate a text based representation of a portion of the stream of voicemail audio data obtain one or more identification tags from at least one of the stream of voicemail data and the text based representation of the portion of the stream of voicemail data and provide the text based representation of the portion of the stream of voicemail data and the one or more identification tags to a second user through a graphical user interface.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The input system can include an identification tag input engine for adding identification tags to the voicemail data stream . The identification tags may be used to provide metadata about the voicemail data stream and can include information about for example a name of the first user a data time or subject of the content of the voicemail stream and a return phone number of the first user. When the first user communicates with the input system to leave a voicemail message for a second user the identifier engine of the input system can provide one or more voice prompts to the first user to induce the user to enter audio information that may be used to generate one or more identification tags that can be associated with the voicemail data stream . For example the engine may prompt the user to enter his her name return phone number a short e.g. five seconds or less subject or title of the voicemail message a date and time of the message or other information. If the first user answers the questions the identification tag input system may associate the first user s answers into the voicemail data stream .

The system can also include a message processing and presentation system configured for additional processing of the voicemail data stream and presentation of the message to the second user . The processing and presentation system can be co located with the input system . For example the processing and presentation system and the input system can both be part of a network provided by a telecommunication provider e.g. Sprint MCI AT T Verizon . Alternatively the processing and presentation system can be located remotely from the input system in which case the voicemail data stream can be transmitted from the input system to the processing and presentation system . For example the processing and presentation system may be implemented within a system located on a local server or within a local area network LAN that receives voicemail data streams from a network that hosts the input system .

The message processing and presentation system can include for example a text based representation generator that is adapted to receive the voicemail data stream and output a text based representation of at least a portion of the voicemail data stream . The text based representation generator can include a speech recognition engine that receives the voicemail data stream and can convert at least a portion of the stream into textual information that can be displayed to the second user .

The text based representation generator also can include an identification tag determination and matching engine that as described in more detail below can automatically generate identification tags corresponding to metadata information about the voicemail data stream and associate the identification tags with the voicemail data stream or that can match information in the stream or in the text based representation of the stream with identification tags. The text based representation generator can be coupled to a database that can store information that can be matched to information in the voicemail data stream to generate one or more identification tags. For example the database can store the names and contact information of a number of people with whom the second user has interacted. Then the matching engine can compare information in the text based representation to information in the database and can generate identification tags based on matches that are found during the comparison. For example to generate an identification tag that includes information about the first user s name the matching engine may extract information from the data stream about the telephone number from which the call originated and can search for a match between the extracted telephone number and a telephone number stored in the database . If a match is found and a name is associated with a matching phone number in the database then the associated name may be selected automatically as an identification tag that includes information about the first user s name. Thus if the first user bypassed or did not respond to voice prompts for his her name the matching engine may extract this information automatically based on other information in the data stream .

The matching engine also may provide additional information to the second user . For example if the database contains additional information associated with a matching phone number e.g. an e mail address a street address an image of the first user an internet URL for the first user etc. this additional information can be associated with the voicemail data stream when the voicemail data stream is routed to the second user.

If the first user does not answer voice prompts for particular information to be used as identification tags with the data stream or if the speech recognition engine does not understand the user s answers the identification and matching engine may attempt to ascertain relevant identification tags automatically by determining if the text based representation of the voicemail data stream includes information about any of the one or more identification tags that could be associated with the voicemail message when presented to the second user. For example when attempting to determine the name of the first user automatically the identification engine can scan the text based representation and search for matches between text within the representation and names stored in the database . In another implementation the engine can determine the name of the first user based on contextual information in the data stream. For example certain keywords or key phrases may indicate that a proximate word is a name and or the beginning of an appropriate subject for the voicemail message. The text based representation may include keywords or key phrases such as it s this is I am my name is and similar keywords indicative that a name will follow the keyword or key phrases. The representation can also include keywords or key phrases such as I am calling about or the reason I called that are indicative of a subject identification tag that is proximate to the keywords or key phrases.

If the system is unable to ascertain an identification tag corresponding to a subject of the voicemail data stream through the first user s response to one or more voice prompts or by scanning the text based representation for subject matter keywords then the speech recognition engine and the identifier engine may work in consort with each other to generate automatically a subject identification tag. For example a first portion of the data stream can be converted by the speech recognition engine into a first portion of the text based representation and the first portion of the text based representation can be defined by the identifier engine as the subject identification tag. For example the first few words the first sentence the first paragraph or the first few seconds of the data stream can be defined as the subject identification tag.

The text based representation of the voicemail data stream along with associated identification tags can be provided to a display system in the message processing and presentation system . The display system may be responsible for the presentation through a graphical user interface GUI of the information about voicemail messages received by the second user . Some or all of the GUI may include a media mail system e.g. an e mail system an instant messaging system an online communication community or a text messaging system that can be either internal or external to the message processing and presentation system . The media mail system may be a locally executed program such as Microsoft Outlook or Lotus or it may be a remotely provided or web based program system such as gmail or hotmail. The media mail system furthermore may be an instant messaging system or it may be a component of an online collaboration and communication community such as MySpace for example. The media mail system can also include a prioritizing sorting and categorizing engine adapted for determining how the GUI appears to the second user and a user input block through which the second user can access and or customize the GUI . As described in more detail below the GUI may provide information about voicemail messages received by the second user where the information can include information contained in identification tags associated with the voicemail message. The user input block can be used by the second user for example to view and modify information about voicemail messages to delete messages to categorize messages and to prioritize messages. The prioritizing sorting and categorizing engine may be used for example in conjunction with the user input block or the text based representation generator to organize the information about a number of voicemail messages including information about identification tags associated with the messages in an effective manner for the second user .

In the text message certain words or phrases can be highlighted to draw the attention of the second user. For example phone numbers names and words and phrases associated with dates can be highlighted. Automatic highlighting of certain words and phrases may allow the second user to scan the text message more efficiently or quickly.

Identification tags associated with the voicemail data stream e.g. the name of the caller may be obtained from the voicemail message in one or more of a number of methods. For example the name may be input explicitly in response to a voice prompt to the caller. In another implementation the name may be determined via a database using a matching process to find information about the caller in the database. For example the caller s telephone number may be matched with a name in an address book. In another implementation the name may be determined by keyword or other scanning of the text based representation . Similarly the subject identification tag may be obtained in a manner similar to the manner in which the name is obtained .

The name and the subject associated with a voicemail message may be arranged with a plurality of other names and subjects associated with other messages as lines or entries in a first portion of the GUI . The text message may be an on screen print out of the text based representation or a portion of the representation or a link to a location where the representation may be found. The audio message may include a link to a file that allows the user to listen to the actual message for instance as an audio and or video file in a format e.g. way mp3 mpeg that can be played by the user s computer environment. The text message and the audio message may relate to and or be associated with the highlighted line or entry in the first portion of the GUI . The text message and the audio message may be provided and or displayed in a second portion of the GUI .

These icons can inform the user about the trustworthiness of the textual information that has been extracted from a voice message. For example if a name is listed and the icon associated with the name indicates that it was found via a prompt the user may be more certain that the name is accurate than if the name was determined by a text search of the message. The GUI further may include a date section a time section and a return phone number section which can be used to display the date of the message the time of the message and a return phone number of the caller who left the message . In another example if a subject is listed and the icon associated with the name of the caller who left the message indicates that the caller s name was found via a voice prompt then the user can be relatively certain that the action the user needs to take in response to the message is valid even if the user does not have time to listen to the entire audio message. Similarly if the user receives a message and an icon associated with the message indicates that the message was determined to be spam because it pertains to a topic frequently addressed in spam messages then the user can know that he or she need not listen to the entire message or take an action in response to the message.

The graphical user interface may include a message section in which multiple messages in the user s voicemail can be listed. The voicemail messages in the message section can be associated with other information such as for example the caller the caller s telephone number or the topic of the caller s message. When a specific message in the section is highlighted e.g. the message identified by the name and the topic the contents of that message may be expanded and shown in more detail. The format section may be a component of the highlighted message shown in more detail or it may be a component of a toolbar. The format section may provide the user with the option of rendering the message in a number of different manners and or formats. For example the user may have the option to read the text based version of the message or to listen to an audio version of the message in a number of formats such as .wav .mp3 or mpeg.

The priority section of the GUI may be a separate section or it may be integrated into the message section for example via the use of icons such as an urgent icon e.g. an exclamation point to indicate that a particular message has or should have a relatively higher priority for the user. The priority status of the messages can be determined by the first user the second user or automatically by the system. For example the first user can respond to a voice prompt to indicate a desired priority status of the message e.g. high normal low . Also the identification tag determination engine can assign a priority status automatically to the message based on information in the text based representation . For example if the word urgent appears in the representation the engine can assign a high priority status to the message. Also the second user may assign a particular priority status to messages based on the identity of the first user or the telephone number from which the call originates. The icons may be located as a part of or be associated with each message in a list of messages. The category section may be a separate option or a part of a toolbar that allows the user to categorize and sort messages. Thus the second user may create categories for messages for example business and personal then the prioritizing sorting and categorizing engine can sort the messages appropriately based on the category to which they belong. For example selecting a business link may cause all messages from business associates to be displayed.

In another implementation the user may edit the information in identification tags associated with a voicemail message. For example the user may edit the subject of the user s message to provide a subject line identifier that is more useful to the user than the one provided automatically to the user. Then when the user stores the voicemail message for a relatively long time period the user a clear and easily remembered subject identifier to provide summary information about the content of the voicemail message. In another implementation the user may associate a high priority icon with every message received from a particular person or a particular telephone number and may set up the system such that high priority messages are always listed first. Thus a user may require that the prioritizing sorting and categorization engine automatically associate a high priority icon with messages received from his supervisor. Then by also requiring that high priority messages are displayed most prominently in the GUI the user can ensure that messages from his supervisor are displayed prominently e.g. at the top of the list of messages.

If the decision is negative or after the operation the text based representation and the identification tags are provided through a graphical user interface . In addition a plurality of formats may be optionally provided for the text based representation of the portion of the stream of voicemail data a related video or image data the identification tags and or the stream of voicemail data . Using the identification tag a user can sort messages to prioritize the display of messages based on information in the identification tags .

If not it can be determined at a decision whether the audio message includes an audio version of a name and an audio version of a subject. If not a first part of the text based representation of the portion of the stream of voicemail data can be associated with a default subject . If the answer after the decision or the decision is yes or after the operation the text based representation including the name subject the audio version of the name the audio version of the subject and or the default subject can be provided to a second user through a graphical user interface.

The computing system typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media used with voicemail data streams audio data and messages text based representations of portions of the streams or messages and the like.

Computer storage media includes both volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device .

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data like voicemail and representations of voicemail in text in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a telephone cellular phone voice over IP phone joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be the voicemail system a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In the description that follows certain examples may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such a computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures where data are maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an example is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Thus illustrates an example of a suitable environment on which a voicemail to media mail forwarding system may be implemented. The computing system of is an example of a suitable environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of an example. Neither should the environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in an example operating environment.

Examples may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an example include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices personal digital assistants cell phones wireless communications devices wireless communications devices that may include an image capture device multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Examples may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An example may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

While certain features of the described implementations have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the examples of the invention.

