---

title: System and methods for deferred and remote device branding
abstract: Methods and systems for delivering branding information to a portable electronic device based on a brand SKU. The brand SKU is assigned to a device in addition to or to replace an OEM SKU that may have been used for testing and traceability. Based on detection of a brand SKU and a determination as to what brand is associated with the brand SKU, upon power up downstream in the supply chain at the OEM, or at the distribution center, or at the point of sale, a brand payloads based on the brand SKU is sent to the portable electronic device. The brand payloads may comprise logos, configurable options, and access options for hardware and software to various network services including voice services and data services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09125037&OS=09125037&RS=09125037
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09125037
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130827
---
Portable electronic devices may be manufactured for use on multiple telecommunications service providers networks and or for use with multiple brands within a provider s network. These devices may be assigned to a particular network or network brand and have hardware software firmware. Portable electronic devices may be packaged to reflect the manufacturer device model device brand name and the network brand and to include in package instructions related to activation use and maintenance of the device.

In an embodiment a portable electronic device capable of operating on a telecommunications service provider s network under a plurality of brands comprising a processor a memory comprising a system memory partition a user memory partition and a carrier memory partition an initial identification wherein the initial identification is assigned by an original equipment manufacturer OEM based on at least one of a device type a device manufacturer and a device model and a brand identification wherein the brand identification is assigned to the portable electronic device in addition to or instead of the initial identification at the original equipment manufacturer a distribution center or at a point of sale location. The embodiment further comprising an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor accesses a plurality of brand payloads stored on a server comprising at least one data store wherein a limited communication mode is established between the portable electronic device and a network wherein the limited communication mode allows the device to connect to emergency services and receive payloads from the network and wherein at least some of the plurality of brand payloads is received by the portable electronic device in response to powering on and based on the brand identification.

In an embodiment A method of sending brand payloads to a portable electronic device comprising establishing by a network server on a telecommunications service provider network a wireless connection to a portable electronic device wherein the wireless connection is established in a limited communication mode wherein the limited communication mode allows the portable electronic device to contact emergency services and receive a plurality of payloads from the network server and wherein the limited communication mode restricts all other communication between the portable electronic device and the server and determining by a brand server on the telecommunications service provider network a type of brand SKU associated with the portable electronic device. The embodiment further comprising sending by the brand server in response to the determination a payload comprising a plurality of brand payloads to the portable electronic device over the wireless connection wherein the brand payload comprises terms and conditions startup information and a user guide and granting by the network server to the portable electronic device in response to a determination that the payload was sent and executed access to at least one of voice services and data services.

In an embodiment a method of sending brand payloads to a portable electronic device comprising establishing by a server a wireless connection to a portable electronic device wherein the wireless connection is established in a limited communication mode wherein the limited communication mode allows the device to connect to emergency services and receive a payload from the network and determining by a server if a memory of the portable electronic device comprises a brand SKU wherein the brand SKU is associated with a brand of a telecommunications service provider. The embodiment further comprising determining in response to the determination that the memory comprises the brand SKU a brand associated with the brand SKU sending by the server in response to the determination of the brand associated with the brand SKU a brand payload to the portable electronic device over a wireless network and sending by the server in response to the determination that the memory does not comprise the brand SKU a notification to the portable electronic device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Conventionally a portable electronic device may be intended for use with a brand of a plurality of brands supported by a telecommunications service provider. The device may comprise hardware software and firmware that collaborate to provide an experience associated with that brand that may be installed at the OEM and or the provider. This brand specific package of hardware software and firmware may provide parts of the user experience such as the logo at power on power off and a contact for customer care. The brand may also affect what applications and services supported by the telecommunications service provider can be accessed from the device and what options are presented and or available to the device in an online store where applications and utilities can be purchased and or downloaded.

Conventionally in addition to hardware and software components firmware and configurable options each brand may have its own packaging including soft pack hard pack boxes shrink wrap and package inserts such as user guide terms and conditions of use as well as instructions for use and other materials related to startup and maintenance of the device. Therefore if there is an unexpected demand under a particular brand for a specific device there may not be inventory available to fill this demand. This may be for example because forecasting or other supply chain information may have indicated that a product lot should be divided between brands as follows 40 brand X 30 brand Y and 30 brand Z. However if this information was incorrect or if economic factors supply chain factors or consumer interest changes for example due to a promotion under brand Z the actual demand is 25 brand X 22 brand Y and 53 brand Z there would be a 23 gap between available inventory from that lot and product demand. If that 23 in whole or in part can be rebranded at its current inventory location or if the branding could have been deferred closer to or at the point of sale this may save the cost of shipping packaging and labor that was conventionally assumed when a brand change was needed for inventory redistribution. While conversion procedures may have been available conventionally to convert inventory from one brand to another these procedures may have been costly and time consuming and involved bringing a device in for service to a retail location or shipping a device to a remote location for service. Therefore conventionally packaged devices may have had to have the packaging opened have inserts replaced have internal and or external packaging replaced and then be re packaged to reflect the new brand.

As such telecommunications service providers may desire a system and a method that enables the provider to assign branding information downstream in the supply chain and to reassign and or change brands if inventory is reallocated or if a device is refurbished. By assigning a brand further downstream than in the initial packaging process or manufacturing process of the device the brand can more easily be changed if needed. The present disclosure relates to packaging and provisioning of portable electronic devices so that the device is assigned to a brand in the packaging process in order to decrease the instances and cost associated with repackaging. This may be referred to as deferred assignment of branding which means that the branding may be assigned later in the distribution cycle for example when more information or more reliable information on brand identity of the devices is available e.g. when committed orders are in hand . In some embodiments rebranding may be accomplished without changing any physical components of the packaging. This brand assignment may take place prior to the device leaving the manufacturer OEM and a single stock keeping unit SKU which may be referred to as an OEM SKU may be assigned to a plurality of devices.

An OEM is an original equipment manufacturer a manufacturer of products such as portable electronic devices that takes components manufactured in house or purchased from a sister company or third party and assembles manufactures a product. This product may be a finished product for sale as is or may undergo further processing for example having software and or firmware installed having configuration settings installed and other processing. This further processing may be performed by an entity other than the original equipment manufacturer for example by a customer of the original equipment manufacturer for example by an order fulfillment center of a wireless communication service provider that receives a mobile communication device from the original equipment manufacturer and then installs additional software firmware and or configuration settings into the mobile communication device. A stock keeping unit is an identifier used to track and or identify a plurality of products and or product families through the supply chain. In some circumstances devices identified by a stock keeping unit may be tested in accordance with company and or government mandated testing procedures. It is appreciated that brand assignment may be performed on a new unused device or on a device that may or may not have been in use and has already had a brand assigned and is having a new brand assigned for example during refurbishment or inventory reallocation.

In an embodiment these devices are all packaged in a manner that reflects the telecommunications service provider for example the box that contains the device and any related accessories. The outside box may comprise a generic telecommunications service provider s logo and other information that is not specific to any brand. The packaging may also comprise on the outside of the box or otherwise information related to the OEM such as the make model and device brand name of the device. It is appreciated that a device brand and a telecommunications brand are not the same. The device brand is the name used to recognize the actual portable electronic device and the telecommunications service provider brand is the brand under which data and or voice services are provided to the device.

In one embodiment in order to reflect the brand of each device a brand specific sleeve may be placed over the package downstream in the supply chain process for example at the OEM at a distribution center or at the point of sale. In addition to the physical indication of branding the device may receive a brand SKU in addition to or instead of the SKU assigned by the OEM the OEM SKU for testing and traceability. Receipt and or assignment of the brand SKU assigns a SKU identity related to a brand to a parameter in the memory of the portable electronic device which may be stored in the same location as the OEM SKU or in a different location depending upon the embodiment. This assignment of the brand SKU may be done at the OEM distribution center or point of sale. It is appreciated that the provisioning is the process by which a device or devices are prepared for and equipped to allow service to new and refurbished devices. The brand SKU may be used for provisioning so that the appropriate payload for the brand assigned to the device is sent to the device.

In an embodiment a portable electronic device with an assigned brand SKU that has either never had a brand assigned or is having a new brand assigned for example during refurbishment or inventory re allocation is powered on in a capacity limited by the network which may also be referred to as a walled garden. The term walled garden as used herein refers to a device that has a limited set of functionality in a non billable state used for initial registration and refurbishment. In this limited capacity the device may for example access emergency service 911 and engage in activation directed communications with specific provisioning activation servers in the wireless network. While in the walled garden the device may not be able to make voice calls check email engage in social networking activities or otherwise transmit data for non activation or provisioning purposes. In this limited functionality mode terms and conditions sent to the device may be reviewed and accepted a startup guide or instructions may be reviewed active steps dictated by the startup instructions may be executed and a user guide may be reviewed.

A sub SKU which may also be referred to as a brand SKU is assigned to each device either at the OEM at a distribution center or at the point of sale during the activation provisioning process. The term sub SKU is used herein to mean simply that it is a SKU that is associated with a brand not to be confused with the OEM SKU used for tracking manufacturing and testing of assembled devices. The brand SKU as discussed in detail below may or may not be associated with the OEM SKU depending upon the embodiment. While in the walled garden the device receives provisioning information which may comprise a payload and or a brand payload based on its brand SKU.

While the OEM SKU assigned by the OEM to a plurality of devices during the manufacturing and or refurbishment process may reflect the type model or brand of the device itself and may be used for testing and or supply chain control including manufacturing through packaging the brand SKU is associated with the brand of service provider that supports the device. It is appreciated that the term supply chain as used herein is used to describe the process of manufacturing a device or a plurality of devices that may include the initial orders for device components orders for manufacture testing packaging and other parts of the manufacturing process that involve inventory and raw material control. It is appreciated that at least some of the processes described herein to initially assign brands to devices as applied to new devices could also be applied to the refurbishment of devices and the reallocation of previously branded devices.

In an embodiment when the portable electronic device is activated for the first time or as a part of the refurbishment process the provisioning information including the brand payload is sent to the device by the network based upon the brand SKU. In an embodiment a server accessible by the device in the walled garden may first check to see if a brand SKU is associated with the device. If there is a brand SKU associated with the device the brand payload may be sent by the server to the device. If a brand SKU is not found to be associated with the device the server may try again and or may send a notification to another server or to a supervisor with access to the server as to the missing brand SKU. This brand payload may comprise information for the startup of the device such as terms and conditions of use a user guide and startup instructions.

In an embodiment the terms and conditions as well as at least some portions of the user guide and or startup instructions may be clicked through by the user as an indication of acceptance of terms. It is appreciated that the terms and conditions user guide and startup instructions may be separate documents or that they may be combined in whole or in part in various combinations. Once this brand payload is received by the device the device may be authorized to receive voice and or data services and may then operate outside of the walled garden. In some embodiments the device is associated with a service plan for the brand and may begin receiving voice and or data services from the network after the device is provisioned. In that embodiment the terms and conditions may reflect the service plan or a separate set of information for the service plan may be sent to the device as a part of the brand payload or as part of a separate payload.

By assigning a brand SKU to a device the appropriate brand payload may be sent from the network to that device so that it can be provisioned and function properly under the brand. In addition by using this method as opposed to assigning the brand upstream in the supply chain manufacturing process the packaging scrap created by changing brands may be reduced or eliminated. For example three pallets of portable electronic devices are intended for use with Brand X and the software hardware firmware and physical packaging associated with Brand X are loaded on to or packaged with the device at the OEM. If two of these pallets are then requested by production planning or customer care for use with Brand Y each device must be broken down out of hard pack soft pack shrink wrap and any paper instructions such as the terms and conditions contained within the boxes may be scrapped. Not only do un packaging and re packaging waste time but the time spent on initially packaging the devices may also be a loss.

By using a brand SKU that can be assigned electronically without the physical device being returned to a retail location or remote servicing location this means that the brand SKU can also be re assigned if product is desired on a particular brand when existing inventory may not support additional demand. In addition if there was an issue in the supply chain where inventory was not generally readily available the systems and methods disclosed herein could re assign branding for a plurality of devices without the time and expense of repackaging and thereby more readily satisfy market demand. In some embodiments the brand SKU may replace the original SKU with traceability maintained at the OEM and or the provider. In other embodiments the brand SKU is assigned in addition to or as a subset of the OEM s SKU.

By contrast the operating system of the mobile communication device may allow unrestricted write access to the user memory partition. For example a user of the mobile communication device may be permitted by the operating system to write information into the user memory partition at least indirectly by exercising user interface control selections for example entering personal contacts installing third party applications downloading ring tones and the like. During a reset for example during a reset to factory defaults the information in the user memory partition may be deleted by the operating system. The ANDROID operating system used by some mobile communication devices may establish a system memory partition and a user memory partition.

The operating system may further provide write access to a carrier memory partition to privileged users or automated processes. For example an individual providing a carrier memory partition key or password for example an employee or contractor associated with a wireless communication service provider may be allowed by the operating system to write to the carrier memory partition. Alternatively instructions that execute on the mobile communication device may be granted the privilege to write to the carrier partition by the operating system based on the instructions providing the key or password.

In an embodiment the key or password is unavailable and unknown to a user of the mobile communication device for example the key or password may only be known to the wireless service provider and or carrier. In an embodiment the instructions may invoke an application programming interface API provided by the operating system to write to the carrier memory partition and the API call may entail providing the key or password associated with the carrier memory partition. In some contexts this may be referred to as a carrier memory partition key or a carrier memory partition password. An automated procedure or function executed on the mobile communication device that presents a carrier memory partition key or password for example a script wireless transmitted to the mobile communication device may be permitted to write to the carrier memory partition. The carrier memory partition may be used to store branding information. The carrier memory partition further may be used to store other information unrelated to branding and or customization content. For further details about carrier memory partitions see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 763 428 filed Feb. 8 2013 entitled System and Method of Storing Service Brand Packages On a Mobile Device by Brandon C. Annan et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This OEM SKU may be assigned by the portable electronic device manufacturer OEM and may be shared by a plurality of similar devices. The OEM SKU may be used by the OEM and the telecommunications service provider for component and testing traceability as well as to track the portable electronic device in the supply chain. Traceability may be dictated by agency regulation and or internal OEM policy or customer policy where the customer is the telecommunications service provider for the purposes of quality and inventory control.

The portable electronic device may be in wireless communication with a network through a base transceiver station . A brand identifier which may also be referred to as a brand SKU which may be assigned by the OEM prior to shipping to a distribution center or at the distribution center or at the point of sale prior to sale may be used to load a brand payload on to the portable electronic device . It is appreciated that the brand SKU may replace or be associated with the portable electronic device in addition to the OEM SKU and that the brand SKU and may or may not be related to the OEM SKU . For example an OEM SKU could be related to the brand SKU if the OEM SKU was 832104 and the brand SKU could be 832104X where X represents an alpha alphanumeric color numeric or other indication of the associated brand. In another example the OEM SKU could be 982250 and the brand SKU could be an unrelated alpha alphanumeric color numeric or other indication of the associated brand. In that example there may be the data store may comprise information that relates the OEM SKU to the brand SKU for traceability purposes.

Brand information such as the user guide startup information and terms and conditions may be stored by a telecommunications service provider on a brand server that comprises at least one data store . The brand server in response to the portable electronic device being powered on and sending an activation initiation message which may also be referred to as a branding initiation message recognizes the brand SKU and sends a brand payload to the portable electronic device part of which may be used to provision the portable electronic device . Provisioning is the term used to describe the process used to configure the base transceiver station and the network to grant a device access to data stores systems network applications and authorize the hardware software and firmware on the device to have the appropriate rights and privileges to operate on at least one network. Part of the provisioning process may comprise a user s electronic acceptance of the terms and conditions as well as a series of startup steps. This brand information may also include a user guide. The user guide may comprise information about the portable electronic device as well as the services offered by the brand for that portable electronic device . At least some of the brand payload is sent to the portable electronic device so that the user can access it from the portable electronic device instead of having a paper copy in the packaging. This reduces the packaging costs as well as the cost of rebranding if desired. The startup instructions may comprise a plurality of instructions to follow that can be viewed on the graphical user interface of the portable electronic device .

The information sent in the brand payload in response to recognition of the brand SKU and determination of the brand associated with the brand SKU may be information that was formerly located on the outside of a package printed or add on of a packaged device or inside the package as a paper handout or printed instructions. Instead the brand payload is sent to the portable electronic device as part of the provisioning activation process. The provisioning process may comprise the user clicking through the terms and conditions of a graphical user interface of the portable electronic device as well as the startup guide. A walled garden is represented in to illustrate the limited functionality that portable electronic device may experience prior to and during the provisioning process part of which comprises sending the brand payload to the portable electronic device based on the brand SKU . It is appreciated that the walled garden while shown in to encompass the portable electronic device BTS brand server and data store server and data store as well as part of network may encompass alternate and or additional components depending upon the embodiment.

As discussed above this brand SKU is used to provision the portable electronic device in part to reduce the labor and materials of the packaging process and in part to maximize the ability of the supply chain operation to allocate and reallocate inventory between different brands. At block the portable electronic device is powered on at a point after the brand SKU is assigned to the portable electronic device . The portable electronic device is powered on at block in a limited communication mode. This limited communication mode as discussed above may allow the device to contact emergency services and receive limited communication from a telecommunications service provider associated with the brand type of the brand SKU . This limited communication may comprise provisioning and other setup information used to authorize the portable electronic device s operation and receipt of voice and or data services under a particular brand. In some embodiments receipts of these services may be based upon a subscription plan. When the device is powered on the network determines whether there is a brand SKU at block and if so determines the brand type at block . If there is no brand SKU associated with the portable electronic device another attempt may be made and or a notification may be sent to quality control a supervisor or another server or queue on a server that will be reviewed to determine if the lack of brand SKU is a one time event or whether a pallet or larger group of devices are missing a brand SKU .

If the brand is determined the portable electronic device receives a brand payload comprising a plurality of brand specific provisioning information at block . As discussed above this information may comprise terms and conditions of use a user guide or manual and startup instructions. At block the portable electronic device is provisioned and at block the device subsequent to provisioning is powered on in a full service mode. The full service mode may allow the portable electronic device access to systems and operations related to voice and or data services which the portable electronic device may be authorized to access based on a subscription plan. The provisioning process at block may comprise acceptance of terms and conditions completion of a plurality of steps in the startup instructions as well as the determination of whether there is a subscription plan associated with the portable electronic device . By using a brand SKU to determine the portable electronic device brand and send a brand payload of a plurality of brand payloads stored on the at least one data store of the brand server the portable electronic device packaging process can be reduced to only the packaging components used for protecting the device s integrity during shipping and distribution. It is appreciated that sending of the brand payload at block may be done for a new device or may be done for a device that is being refurbished. Using the systems and method disclosed herein the packaging process may be streamlined inventory may be more easily assigned and reassigned reallocated to brands. This may save packaging costs labor costs and increase customer retention and good will because customers may not have to wait for inventory for a particular brand like they would if the devices had to be physically repackaged.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. In alternate embodiments the communication may provide a limited communication mode as discussed in with respect to the walled garden . The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . This function may be accessible even in a limited communication mode in order to allow the user to accept terms and conditions and perform other functions as indicated in the startup guide. Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

