---

title: System and method for display management based on user attention inputs
abstract: A system and method are provided for managing data being displayed on at least one monitor screen based on monitoring user's attention in relation to the monitor screen. In one embodiment, upon detecting that the user's attention is leaving at least a portion of a screen, the system may alert the user of such an event. Alternatively, the system could alert the user upon detecting a triggering condition while the user's attention is away from the at least a portion of the screen. The step of alerting the user may include modifying at least a portion of a display on a monitor not being viewed by the user. Additionally, the system may initiate preparation of a report including any data not being viewed by a user during the time period when the user is not viewing a portion of the monitor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08854302&OS=08854302&RS=08854302
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08854302
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130816
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 478 889 filed May 23 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 547 330 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 872 617 filed on Jun. 21 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 232 962 entitled System and Method for Display Management Based on User Attention Inputs the contents of each of which are fully incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

The present invention is directed to managing data displays. More specifically the present invention is directed to managing data displays based on user s attention data.

An exchange is a central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers meet to trade. Some exchanges referred to as open outcry exchanges operate using a trading floor where buyers and sellers physically meet on the floor to trade. Other exchanges referred to as electronic exchanges operate by an electronic or telecommunications network instead of a trading floor to facilitate trading in an efficient versatile and functional manner. Electronic exchanges have made it possible for an increasing number of people to actively participate in a market at any given time. The increase in the number of potential market participants has advantageously led to among other things a more competitive market and greater liquidity.

With respect to electronic exchanges buyers and sellers may log onto an electronic exchange trading platform by way of a communication link through their user terminals. Once connected buyers and sellers may typically choose which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of traded events goods and or financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

To profit in electronic markets market participants must be able to assimilate large amounts of data in order to recognize market trends and to view current market conditions. Screen space is often an important factor for a trader to consider when he she sets up a trading workstation since the screen space directly affects the trader s ability to quickly view and process market data. Many traders use one large monitor running at a very high resolution in an effort to get the maximum amount of data onto the screen. However in today s information intensive markets to be successful traders often need to simultaneously view multiple trading interfaces charts industry news spreadsheets as well as other information. Since each application created interface has at least one window a single monitor does not allow a trader to simultaneously view data on multiple windows and the time it takes the trader to flip between the windows does not make the single monitor the most optimal trading workspace solution.

Therefore many traders use multiple monitors to avoid flipping from one window to another and to efficiently view all windows simultaneously. However traders with multiple monitors can actually only look closely at one monitor at a time. Although the human peripheral field of vision is 180 the field of foveal vision the region of the visual field where the user has the greatest visual activity is approximately 2 . Therefore a trader can only attend to a small part of each display at any one point in time. When a trader s gaze returns to a monitor after some period of time it is simple to observe the current state of the application but especially with a real time application like a trading interface or any other graphical display of time varying data it will not be easy for a trader to determine what has occurred during the time interval when the trader was looking elsewhere. As a trader uses more monitors the trader may miss many important trading opportunities by not being able to simultaneously view data that are displayed on different monitors. Therefore it would be beneficial to provide a system that could be used by a trader to improve his awareness of market events when the trader is using more than one monitor.

The preferred embodiments are provided among other things to facilitate display management based on monitoring user s attention in relation to one or more display monitors such as monitoring a user s gaze position in relation to one or more monitors or upon detecting some other user defined events. In one aspect of the preferred embodiments a system includes among other elements a plurality of monitors one or more gaze tracking units and a display manager application. The gaze tracking units preferably non intrusively capture the direction of the user s gaze and calculate which screen or which portion of the screen the user is currently viewing. If one of the gaze tracking units detects the user shifting his eyes away from a monitor or from one or more graphical interfaces being displayed on the monitor the gaze tracking unit may notify the display manager application of the occurrence of such an event and the display manager application can responsively start managing at least a portion of the display monitor.

In one preferred embodiment the display manager application may record data being displayed on the monitor while the user s gaze is away from the monitor. In such an embodiment for example the data can be recorded during the entire trading session and the display manager application can select or mark portions of the data being recorded so that the data corresponding to the time when the user s gaze was away from the screen or a portion thereof can be later easily identified. Alternatively the display manager application may modify the display such as suppress or minimize some or all of the displayed windows or perform different functions based on the user s preferences. Then when the gaze tracking unit detects the user s gaze returning back to the monitor an event indicating that marking of the data being recorded should stop the gaze tracking unit may notify the display manager application to stop marking the data that is being recorded. Alternatively if the display manager application starts data recording upon detecting that the user s gaze is away from the monitor or a portion thereof the event of the user s gaze returning back to the monitor can be interpreted as a request to stop recording. In one embodiment the display manager application may prepare a report including events that happened during the time period when the user s gaze was away from the monitor and may provide the report to a user upon detecting another event such as upon detecting the user s gaze returning back to the monitor. The report could include a series of snapshots of textual and or graphical displays or may include all recorded data which can be later played to a user. Also the report could highlight certain elements on the user interfaces while the user s gaze was away from the monitor. In another embodiment the report could be a weather map style fast forward display of what happened during the away time. However it should be understood that different report formats could also be prepared based on the user s preferences.

In an alternative embodiment or in addition to preparing a report the display manager application could also alert a user at times when the user is not looking at a monitor or at one or more windows being displayed on the monitor. In one embodiment the process of alerting a user may include modifying a full display monitor or portions of the display such as individual windows not being viewed by the user. For example the display manager application could modify the display by enhancing enlarging or modifying colors of the windows or interfaces not being viewed by a user. However it should be understood that different modifications could be applied to the individual windows or entire monitor displays as well. Also rather than enhancing the display of the windows not being viewed by the user such windows could be minimized or covered with some other displays. Further alternatively the alerts could be audio alerts and could include any audio messages or sounds. In such an embodiment the content of audio messages could be based on what a user is not looking at on one or more screens. Alternatively alerts could only be provided to a user upon detecting a condition triggering generation of an alert. It should be understood that such conditions could be user configurable.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Other systems methods and advantages of the present embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present embodiments may be operated in an entirely software embodiment in an entirely hardware embodiment or in a combination thereof. However for sake of illustration the preferred embodiments are described in a software based embodiment which is executed on a computer device. As such the preferred embodiments take the form of a computer program product that is stored on a computer readable storage medium and is executed by a suitable instruction system in the computer device. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices for example.

In an electronic trading environment when a trader selects a tradeable object the trader may access market data related to the selected tradeable object s . Referring to an example communication that might occur between an electronic exchange and a client terminal in accordance with the preferred embodiments is shown. During a trading session market data in the form of messages may be relayed from a host exchange over communication links and to a client terminal generally indicated as . As illustrated in intermediate devices such as gateway s may be used to facilitate communications between the client terminal and the host exchange . It should be understood that while illustrates the client terminal communicating with a single host exchange in an alternative embodiment the client terminal could establish trading sessions to more than one host exchange.

The market data contains information that characterizes the tradeable object s order book including among other parameters order related parameters and the inside market which represents the lowest sell price also referred to as the best or lowest ask price and the highest buy price also referred to as the best or highest bid price . In some electronic markets market data may also include market depth which generally refers to quantities available for trading the tradeable object at certain buy price levels and quantities available for trading the tradeable object at certain sell price levels.

In addition to providing the tradeable object s order book information electronic exchanges can offer different types of market information such as total traded quantity for each price level an opening price last traded price last traded quantity the closing price or order fill information. It should be understood that market information provided from an electronic exchange could include more or fewer items depending on the type of tradeable object or the type of exchange. Also it should be understood that the messages provided in the market data may vary in size depending on the content carried by them and the software at the receiving end may be programmed to understand the messages and to act out certain operations.

A trader may view the information provided from an exchange via one or more specialized trading screens created by software running on the client terminal . Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to take actions such as send orders to an exchange cancel orders at the exchange or change order parameters for example. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into the client terminal . Upon receiving one or more commands or signals from the trader the client terminal may generate messages that reflect the actions taken generally shown at . It should be understood that different types of messages or order types can be submitted to the host exchange all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated user action messages may be sent from the client terminal to the host exchange over communication links and .

Upon receiving the user s gaze position data the gaze control application may first determine the user s gaze position coordinates in relation to one of the monitors. When the gaze control application detects a user shifting his eyes away from one of the monitors or a portion of a display on one of the monitors depending on the user s preferences the gaze control application may provide a signal to the display manager so that in one preferred embodiment the display manager may start preparing a report of events occurring while the user is not looking at the monitor. It should be understood that the report may take many different formats and may include textual and or graphical data. Also in a preferred embodiment a user may specify a number of rules defining which portions of the displayed interfaces should be recorded. For example if a monitor displays a trading interface and a chart a user may wish to configure a number of rules that will cause the display manager to only record data being displayed on the trading interface while not recording any chart display data.

In a preferred embodiment the display manager may continue preparation of the report until the gaze control application provides a stop signal to the display manager . The gaze control application may generate the stop signal upon detecting that the user s gaze returned to the monitor. The display manager may then provide the generated report to a user. It should be understood that the report could be displayed to a user immediately upon detecting the user s gaze returning back to the monitor for which the report was created. Alternatively a user may control when he she wishes to view the report. As mentioned in earlier paragraph the report may take many different formats and may include a series of textual and or graphical displays highlighting of certain elements on the application s user interface a fast forward display of what happened during the away time a combination thereof or yet some other format. It should be understood that a user could define a number of rules to be used by the display manager to prioritize which of the recorded data should be shown to the trader first. In such an embodiment the display manager may process data from many applications or windows and may report the highest priority items first. The display manager may then save each report in a database .

In the system illustrated in the display manager is connected to multiple monitors that are part of a workspace. However alternatively the display manager could also control monitors connected to more than one workstation. In such an embodiment the display manager may communicate over a network with the gaze tracking interfaces associated with other workspaces and can mediate the reporting process over one or more networks.

Also while and subsequent figures refer to using gaze related data the preferred embodiments are not limited to monitoring where the user is looking Alternatively the display manager can perform its functions in response to other user attention based inputs. For example the display manager could manage the display according to the preferred embodiments described below when it detects that a portion or the entire window being displayed on a monitor is covered by another window so that a user cannot view the window underneath. However it should be understood that different events could also be considered to affect the user s attention.

Preferably the trading application and the display manager applications have access to market information from one or more host exchange through an interface such as the API . A commercially available trading application that allows a user to trade is X TRADER from Trading Technologies International Inc. of Chicago Ill. X TRADER also provides an electronic trading interface referred to as MD Trader in which working orders and or bid and ask quantities are displayed in association with a static axis of prices. However the preferred embodiments are not limited to any particular product that performs translation storage and display functions.

Portions of the X TRADER and the MD Trader style display are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 590 692 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth filed on Jun. 9 2000 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 971 087 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth and Price Consolidation filed on Oct. 5 2001 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 125 894 entitled Trading Tools for Electronic Trading filed on Apr. 19 2002 the contents of each are incorporated herein by reference.

When the gaze control application receives user s gaze position data from a gaze interface the gaze control application may determine position coordinates of the user s gaze in relation to one or more monitors in a user s workspace. Upon detecting that the user has shifted his eyes away from one of the monitors the gaze control application may provide a signal to the display manager application to start managing the display of the monitor. The display manager application may start recording market data or any other data being displayed on the monitor while the user is not looking at the monitor. Alternatively the display manager application may suppress the active display of the monitor by minimizing any windows that are displayed on the monitor or by obscuring the windows with a snapshot of what the display looks like at various intervals. However it should be understood that any other mechanism such as intercepting low level window manager messages related to commands to paint the physical screen could be used as well to modify a display while a user is not looking at a monitor. Also in one preferred embodiment the process of updating the monitor display preferably resumes immediately upon detecting the user s eyes returning back to the monitor. In fact the display manager application could stop management of the display as soon as the gaze interface detects that there is a reasonable probability of the gaze coming to rest upon the display monitor in question.

Preferably any data recorded by the display manager application may be saved in the database . The database may be any data storage entity that provides writing and reading access. In one preferred embodiment the database may record any data for the display manager application and the data could be recorded directly to a memory unit or to some other storage device such as a computer s hard disk. The display devices could be CRT based video displays LCD based displays gas plasma panel displays displays that show three dimensional images different display types or the combination thereof. The input devices may include a mouse a keyboard a game pad or a stylus in the embodiments using touch screen display devices. However different input devices could also be used.

The operating system may be used to manage hardware and software resources of the client terminal . General functions of the operating system may include processor management memory management device management storage management application interface and user interface. Any type of the operating system may be used to implement the present embodiments and examples of common operating systems include the Microsoft WINDOWS family of operating systems the UNIX family of operating systems or the MACINTOSH operating systems. However those ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize that the added complexity of an operating system may not be necessary to perform the functions described herein.

Referring to at step the gaze control application uses inputs that are provided by the gaze interface to determine and monitor coordinates of the user s gaze in relation to at least one monitor. In a preferred embodiment the gaze control application uses the gaze coordinates to determine the exact position of the user s eyes in relation to one of the monitors. At step the gaze control application detects the user s eyes shifting away from at least one monitor display. It should be understood that in an alternative embodiment the gaze control application could be also configured to detect the user s eyes shifting away from one or more windows or user interfaces being displayed on a monitor. Also alternatively events other than the user s gaze shifting away from the screen or a portion thereof could be detected as well and could trigger the steps of the method described below. Such events for example may include any user s attention based events such as a window being temporarily obscured by another window or some other user configurable events.

When the gaze control application detects that the user s eyes has shifted away from one of the monitors or a portion thereof such as from one or more windows being displayed on the monitor at step the gaze control application may provide a signal to the display manager application . In one embodiment the signal may include an identifier defining a monitor or one or more application windows that are not being viewed by the user. It should be understood that the user could define which of the application windows or monitors should be monitored by the gaze control application so that the gaze control application would provide a signal to the display manager application only when it detects the user s eyes shifting away from one of the specified application windows or monitors.

At step the display manager application may start management of data being displayed on the monitor. In one preferred embodiment the display manager application may prepare a report by recording data being displayed on the monitor while the user s eyes are away from that monitor. For example the system may be configured to record data being displayed on a monitor during the entire trading session. In such an embodiment the display manager application may record the time when the user s gaze shifts away from the monitor or a portion thereof so that it can later go back to the recording and identify the start of the relevant data. It should be understood that different methods could also be used to identify where the relevant data has started. In an alternative embodiment the display manager application could start recording the data at the time when the gaze control application detects the user s gaze shifting away from the monitor or a portion thereof.

In an alternative embodiment the display manager application may initiate a process of alerting a user upon detecting that the user s gaze has shifted away from the monitor or from one or more windows being displayed on the monitor. For example the display manager application could enhance enlarge or change colors of all or some windows or interfaces not being viewed by the user. Further alternatively the display manager application could minimize some windows being displayed on the monitor or could cover some or all windows not being viewed by a user with some other windows. Also the process of alerting a user could include providing audio alerts such as playing messages or different sounds to a user. In such an embodiment the message content or the type of the alert used may depend on data not being viewed by a user at one of the monitors or portions of the monitor. Also it should be understood that the process of alerting a user may be initiated at the time when the user shifts his attention from the monitor or the window or at some other time such as upon detecting an alert triggering condition along with the user s attention being away from a monitor or from a window.

At step the gaze control application determines if the user s gaze has returned back to the monitor or to one or more windows being displayed on the monitor. Referring to when the user s gaze returns back to the monitor or windows being displayed on the monitors at step the display manager application may discontinue data management for the monitor display. For example the display manager application may record the time when the event happened so that it can later identify the end of the relevant data from the recorded data. In an alternative embodiment where the display manager application only starts recording data upon detecting a user attention based event the display manager application may stop recording upon detecting the user s gaze returning back to the monitor. Further alternatively the display manager application could discontinue generating alerts for a user in relation to windows or the monitor being currently viewed by the user or may stop modifying the display of the monitor or the windows.

At step the display manager application may determine if a report was prepared for a user. As explained in reference to earlier paragraphs in a preferred embodiment the report may include all or some data recorded during the time interval when the user s gaze was away from the monitor or away from one or more windows on the monitor. Also it should be understood that the report may take many different formats. For example the report could be a series of textual and or graphical displays of what happened during the user s away time. Alternatively the report could include a series of screen window snapshots or video data highlighting certain elements on the user interfaces during the user s away time. Also a user could control which of the displayed data should be recorded or what events should trigger the process of recording data. It should be understood that any combination of report types could be used or yet some other report type could also be generated.

If the report has been generated at step the display manager application provides the report to a user. In one embodiment the display manager application may provide to the user the fast forward style of display of what happened during the away time period so that the user could control how quickly he reviews the data in the report. However it is possible that the user s eyes may quickly shift to another display while the user is viewing the report only to shift back again to the original or yet another display. In such an embodiment the display manager application may note that there has not been sufficient time to report to the user all actions that occurred during the time interval when the user s gaze was away from the monitor or one or more windows on the monitor and may keep that information stored for later reporting. Optionally the display manager application can require an acknowledgement of the reported information such as by an action the user may take with an input device or by detecting that the user had a sufficient time to view the reported items. In another embodiment if there is not enough space on a screen to display the report without obscuring other windows the display manager application could display a report data window on top of one or more other windows. In such an embodiment any data displayed via the report data window can be transparent so that a user can view both the report data as well as any other data being displayed on the underlying windows.

Alternatively rather than waiting for the user s gaze to return back to the monitor the user may opt to view the generated report via another device while the user is away from the location of the monitors. As an example the user could view the report via a wireless device that is capable of receiving and displaying to the user snapshots of information being received from the display manager application .

In another preferred embodiment the display manager application could operate in conjunction with another display data application. In such an embodiment the display manager application may notify the display data application of the event that the recording should begin such as upon detecting a user s gaze shifting away from a monitor or a portion thereof as in the embodiment described in reference to or upon detecting some other event such as a window being covered by other interfaces. Later the display manager application could notify the display data application of another event indicating that the display data application should preferably stop recording. Then the display manager application could provide another signal upon detecting the occurrence of an event that a report should be prepared and provided to a user. However it should be understood that still different embodiments could be possible as well.

While the above embodiments described the display manager application preparing a report or modifying a display of a monitor while the user s gaze is away from the monitor different embodiments are possible as well. For example the display manager application managing a monitor that is not being attended by a user may encounter an event of such a high priority that it might notify the user right away. In one embodiment because the display manager application continuously receives user s gaze position data from the gaze control application it may at any time determine the current position of the user s gaze based on the received data. Knowing the current user s gaze position the display manager application may place notifications of appropriate severity within the edges of the user s current field of view preferably without obscuring the interface that is central to the user s gaze yet still be able to attract the user s attention. For example the notification could include textual and or graphical information depending on the user s preferences. Also any alert signals could be an audio signal. In one embodiment the notification displayed to the user could include portions of the application window not being viewed by the user so that the user could also interact with the application window if he wishes to do so and not just read or become aware of the past activity. Alternatively based on the user s preferences the notification could include the application window in its entirety.

In addition to monitoring the user s gaze the gaze control application could also use other events as triggers to start managing displayed data according to the preferred embodiments. For example the events may include an action of minimizing one or more application windows or detecting that a window is obscured by another window thus effectively preventing a user from viewing any data being displayed on the window. In an embodiment where the display manager prepares a report the display manager application may consider the event of restoring the window or the window becoming again visible on the screen as a signal to stop recording data being displayed via that window. Upon detecting either of the events above the display manager application may provide a report to the user and the report may include significant events that occurred since the last time the user saw the window or otherwise summarize the activity that has taken place when the window was minimized or obstructed by another window.

In further alternative embodiment risk managers could use the system and methods described above to receive information related to activities of several traders. For example a display manager application running on a computer of a risk manager may be configured to receive information from display manager applications of the individual traders and may alert the risk manager when one or more preconfigured alert conditions are detected based on the received data from one or more traders. In such an embodiment the risk manager could view summary reports describing each user s activities snapshots of displays corresponding to one or more of the user s monitors or even full videos of actual users during a specific timeframe along with information defining where the user s eyes were fixed during that time. However it should be understood that different embodiments are possible as well.

The above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for display management using gaze control inputs or any other user attention based inputs may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device a CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

