---

title: Barcode rendering device
abstract: In an embodiment, a method performed by a barcode rendering device for bonding the barcode rendering device with a mobile communication device is described. The method includes detecting a predetermined motion of a barcode rendering device. The method also includes detecting a first signal emitted by a mobile communication device, the first signal indicating that the mobile communication device is ready to bind with the barcode rendering device and to communicate information to the barcode rendering device. The method also includes binding with the mobile communication device in response to detecting both the predetermined motion and the first signal. The method also includes emitting a second signal indicating a readiness to receive the information from the mobile communication device. The method also includes receiving the information from the mobile communication device, the information including barcode data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09033243&OS=09033243&RS=09033243
owner: STRIIV, INC.
number: 09033243
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 888 129 filed Sep. 22 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to barcodes. More particularly some example embodiments relate to a barcode rendering device having a reflective display.

Barcodes are ubiquitous in modern life. A barcode is a machine readable representation of data. Many items purchased in retail stores include a barcode that serves to among other things identify the item.

Barcodes can also be included on coupons rewards cards gift cards preferred member cards elite status cards member loyalty cards and the like. Barcodes included on coupons often identify a particular product or products to which the coupon applies a number of times the coupon can be redeemed an expiration date and a financial discount or rebate that can be received in exchange for presenting the coupon when the product is purchased.

Barcodes included on rewards cards gift cards and preferred members cards often identify the corresponding card and or an account associated with the card. In the case of a rewards card for instance a barcode on the rewards card may identify a user or card account where data representing user activity and or corresponding accrued rewards is stored. As another example a barcode on a gift card may identify an account that specifies a balance for the gift card as the gift card is used to make purchases or value is added to the gift card the balance is adjusted accordingly.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one exemplary technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

In general example embodiments relate to a barcode rendering device having a reflective display for rendering barcodes readable by a barcode scanner.

In an example embodiment a method performed by a barcode rendering device for bonding the barcode rendering device with a mobile communication device is described. The method includes detecting a predetermined motion of a barcode rendering device. The method also includes detecting a first signal emitted by a mobile communication device the first signal indicating that the mobile communication device is ready to bind with the barcode rendering device and to communicate information to the barcode rendering device. The method also includes binding with the mobile communication device in response to detecting both the predetermined motion and the first signal. The method also includes emitting a second signal indicating a readiness to receive the information from the mobile communication device. The method also includes receiving the information from the mobile communication device the information including barcode data.

In another example embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium having computer instructions stored thereon is described. The computer instructions are executable by a processor of a barcode rendering device to perform operations for bonding the barcode rendering device with a mobile communication device. The operations include detecting a predetermined motion of a barcode rendering device. The operations also include detecting a first signal emitted by a mobile communication device the first signal indicating that the mobile communication device is ready to bind with the barcode rendering device and to communicate information to the barcode rendering device. The operations also include binding with the mobile communication device in response to detecting both the predetermined motion and the first signal. The operations also include emitting a second signal indicating a readiness to receive the information from the mobile communication device. The operations also include receiving the information from the mobile communication device the information including barcode data.

In yet another example embodiment a method includes distributing multiple barcode rendering devices to multiple consumers each of the barcode rendering devices configured to legitimately display barcodes in any of multiple barcode symbologies. The method also includes tracking behavior of the consumers with respect to the barcode rendering devices to generate collected data. The method also includes providing the collected data to an interested entity. The method also includes providing a software development kit that permits smartphones to render based on barcode data received from a barcode issuer barcodes and or corresponding human readable information.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential characteristics of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

These and other aspects of example embodiments will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims.

Reference will now be made to the drawings to describe various aspects of some example embodiments of the invention. It is to be understood that the drawings are diagrammatic and schematic representations of such exemplary embodiments and are not limiting of the present invention nor are they necessarily drawn to scale.

With reference first to an example operating environment is illustrated in which some embodiments can be implemented. The example operating environment includes a network one or more network enabled communication devices communication devices a barcode rendering device BRD a merchant location a barcode issuer and a clearinghouse that includes barcode database .

The network is illustrated in simplified form and exemplarily includes the Internet comprising a global internetwork formed by logical and physical connections between multiple wide area networks and or local area networks. Alternately or additionally the network includes a cellular RF network and or one or more wired and or wireless access points IP based networks or the like. The network also includes servers that enable one type of network to interface with another type of network.

The communication devices include a smartphone A and a desktop PC B. Other examples of communication devices with which some embodiments can be implemented include mobile phones laptop computers personal digital assistants or other devices able to communicate over the network . The communication devices are configured to communicate with and exchange data over the network using a suitable wired or wireless standard such as but not limited to IP HTTP HTTPS 802.xx standards mobile telephony standards e.g. GSM CDMA CDMA 2000 HSDPA EV DO LTE Advanced etc. Bluetooth standards including Bluetooth Personal Area Network Bluetooth PAN and Bluetooth Human Interface Device Bluetooth HID or the like or any combination thereof. In some embodiments communication devices receive and store barcode data and communicate with the BRD to cause the BRD to display corresponding barcodes as needed.

The BRD is configured to graphically display barcodes from one or more of a plurality of barcode symbologies. The barcodes may represent coupons rewards cards gift cards elite status cards member loyalty cards or other instruments typically including a barcode.

Alternately or additionally the barcodes represent account information associated with a particular account or other information that may be useful to a particular application or in other contexts. By way of example a game application fitness application or other application may allot virtual points or credits to a user for performing certain tasks or in exchange for money or under other circumstances. The virtual points credits or other information is stored in a user account. The game fitness application or some other application may be configured to encode information from the user account such as the user s virtual points credits into barcode data that can be rendered as a barcode on the BRD . In some embodiments the user can then present the barcode for scanning to any merchant that accepts virtual points credits to thereby redeem the virtual points credits for a purchase or the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be configured to display barcodes from barcode symbologies including but not limited to Code 128 Code 39 PDF417 UPC EAN and the like. In some embodiments the BRD receives the barcodes over the network from the barcode issuer clearinghouse and or merchant . In these and other embodiments the BRD is a network enabled device with appropriate hardware and software for communicating over the network via a wired and or wireless communication interface. Alternately or additionally the BRD receives the barcodes from the smartphone A or desktop computer B via a wired or wireless communication interface.

Alternately or additionally the merchant barcode issuer and clearinghouse each include one or more network enabled computing devices with appropriate hardware and software for communicating over the network and performing the other functions described herein. When the description herein refers to the merchant barcode issuer and or clearinghouse performing a certain action it is understood that the action is generally performed in whole or in part by the corresponding network enabled computing device unless context suggests otherwise.

Accordingly the BRD is configured in some embodiments for operation in any one of a plurality of modes such as a fully autonomous mode a proxy mode and a remote display mode. In fully autonomous mode the BRD receives barcode data directly from a barcode source e.g. barcode issuer and makes rendering decisions about when and how to render information such as barcodes. In proxy mode the BRD essentially functions as an information conduit for another communication device while rendering decisions about what and when to render are made by the BRD . In remote display mode all decisions about what and when to render are made by the communication device and the BRD essentially functions as a remote display for the communication device .

With continued reference to a barcode scanner at the merchant location is connected to a point of sale POS terminal . The barcode scanner includes at least a light source and a light sensor in some embodiments. In operation the barcode scanner emits via the light source illumination towards a printed barcode or a barcode displayed on the BRD the printed or displayed barcode representing data encoded by the barcode. The light sensor of the barcode scanner detects a reflected light signal representing the printed or displayed barcode and converts the reflected light signal to an electrical signal which is decoded by the barcode scanner or the POS terminal to barcode data.

In other embodiments the barcode scanner includes a camera that captures one or more images of a printed barcode or a barcode displayed on the BRD . In these and other embodiments the barcode scanner may implement one or more image recognition algorithms to recognize and decode the barcode included in the image captured by the camera and thereby extract the corresponding barcode data.

Accordingly while two specific implementations of the barcode scanner have been disclosed herein the barcode scanner can more generally include any implementation suitable for reading a printed or displayed barcode. Moreover for ease of discussion some of the embodiments disclosed below are described in the context of a barcode scanner including at least a light source and a light sensor. It will be understood however that different types of barcode scanners such as a camera based barcode scanner can alternately or additionally be implemented in the disclosed embodiments unless context suggests otherwise.

Returning to to reduce the fraudulent use of coupons gift cards and other instruments that include a barcode the POS terminal communicates with the clearinghouse to verify barcode data extracted from a printed or displayed barcode. In some embodiments for example the clearinghouse includes a barcode database that stores barcode data for a plurality of coupons gift cards or other instruments. Optionally the barcode database further includes one or more of an expiration date for a coupon and or card minimum and or maximum number of items to which a coupon can be applied a user account with which a coupon and or card is associated or the like. In these and other embodiments the clearinghouse may query the barcode database with the barcode data received from the POS terminal to verify the barcode data.

For example in the case of barcode data corresponding to a coupon the clearinghouse may determine whether the coupon is expired the minimum maximum number of items to which the coupon can be applied or the like. Or in the case of barcode data corresponding to a gift card the clearinghouse may determine whether the gift card has been activated an available balance of the gift card etc.

The clearinghouse returns a response to the POS terminal indicating whether the barcode data has been verified and the POS terminal proceeds accordingly. For instance if barcode data of a coupon for a product is verified the POS terminal may apply a discount to the price of the product or the like.

The barcode issuer issues coupons and or other instruments with barcodes. The coupons or other instruments can be issued in print form and or in electronic form for display on the BRD . The barcodes included on the issued coupons or other instruments can be unique or generic. Alternately or additionally the issued coupons or other instruments can be multicast or unicast to consumers by the barcode issuer or other issuing entity.

Multicasting refers to distributing a generic barcode to multiple consumers through an appropriate distribution channel such as the mail newspapers magazines the Internet or the like or any combination thereof. Unicasting refers to distributing unique barcodes to consumers where each barcode is unique for a particular consumer and optionally identifies the particular consumer. Unicasting facilitates behavior tracking and in some examples is enabled by embodiments of the BRD as described in more detail herein.

Turning next to a block diagram of an example embodiment of BRD is provided. In the illustrated embodiment the BRD includes a processor memory user interface UI including display and communication interface . Optionally the BRD further includes a light detector a sound detector and a GPS module .

The processor is configured to execute computer instructions stored in memory or other computer readable storage medium. Execution of the computer instructions by the processor causes the BRD to perform one or more of the acts described herein.

The UI includes various input and output devices that permit a user to interact with the BRD . For instance the display is one example of an output device included in the UI . Optionally the display is a touchscreen display in which case the display is also an example of an input device. Other input devices of the UI may include a microphone keypad buttons accelerometer or the like. Other output devices of the UI may include one or more speakers vibrators or the like.

The communication interface is configured to communicatively couple the BRD to e.g. the smartphone A desktop computer B merchant barcode issuer or clearinghouse . The communication interface according to some embodiments includes one or more of a USB port Ethernet port FireWire port an 802.xx compliant transmitter and or receiver a Bluetooth device a mobile telephony transmitter and or receiver or the like. In some embodiments the communication interface receives barcode data corresponding to barcodes in any of a plurality of barcode symbologies from e.g. the smartphone A desktop computer B etc.

The light detector is configured to detect illumination incident on the light detector . In particular the light detector is configured to detect an amplitude of incident illumination. Alternately or additionally the light detector is configured to detect illumination having a wavelength s within a particular optical wavelength range such as illumination having a wavelength of about 632.8 nanometers 670 nanometers or other wavelength of illumination typically used in barcode scanners . In this regard light having a wavelength of about 632.8 nanometers or about 670 nanometers is typically emitted by Helium Neon HeNe lasers and Aluminum Gallium Indium Phosphide AlGaInP lasers respectively and HeNe lasers and AlGaInP lasers are often used in barcode scanners. In some embodiments the light detector is positioned so as to detect illumination incident on a front of the display .

The sound detector is configured to detect audio signals. For example the sound detector may be configured to detect the amplitude and or frequency of audio signals such as the audio tones emitted by some POS terminals in response to a successful scan of a barcode. Alternately or additionally the sound detector is configured to detect audio signals having a frequency ies within a particular audio frequency range.

The GPS module includes one or more chips configured to perform various functions associated with determining a location of the BRD . By way of example the GPS module includes one or more of a tracker an engine and a system on a chip SOC . The tracker is configured to demodulate and decode incoming RF from satellites and to compute pseudoranges. The engine computes position velocity and time for the BRD using the computed pseudoranges and ephemeris data. The SOC enables end applications such as navigation applications.

With additional reference to a front view of an example BRD is provided according to some embodiments. In the illustrated embodiment of the BRD includes a housing and one or more buttons A F or other UI elements for performing input functions.

In some examples the display substantially occupies the front of the BRD . Alternately the display may occupy a relatively smaller or larger percentage of the front of BRD in other embodiments.

As depicted in the display includes a pixel array and a blank mask surrounding the pixel array . All or a portion of the blank mask in some examples functions as one or more quiet zones for barcodes rendered on the display . A barcode quiet zone is a blank area at the beginning or end of a barcode that extends a predetermined distance from the beginning or end of the barcode. Generally the barcode quiet zone should be the same color and reflectivity as the spaces of the barcode. Accordingly the blank mask is configured in some examples such that a color and reflectivity of the blank mask is the same as a color and reflectivity of the spaces of a barcode rendered on the display .

Although illustrated as part of the display the blank mask in other embodiments is part of the housing . Alternately the blank mask is omitted altogether. In these and other embodiments portions of the pixel array extending from the beginning and end of a barcode displayed on the pixel array can function as quiet zones at the beginning and end of the barcode. Optionally portions of the pixel array can function as quiet zones for sufficiently short barcodes even when the display includes the blank mask .

The pixel array includes a plurality of pixels arranged in an array in columns and rows. The pixel array is characterized in some embodiments by the number of rows and the number of columns in the pixel array . The number of rows and columns of a pixel array in a display is commonly referred to as display resolution. Alternately or additionally the pixel array is characterized by a width w height h and or diagonal d of the pixel array .

According to some embodiments the pixel array of display is configured to legitimately display barcodes in any one of a plurality of barcode symbologies. As used herein a barcode symbology defines one or more of the symbols e.g. bars spaces dots squares hexagons etc. used in the barcode symbology a mapping between characters and the symbols and a size and location of one or more quiet zones for the barcode. Legitimately displaying a barcode in some examples includes displaying a barcode substantially in conformity with a corresponding barcode symbology. In some embodiments displaying a barcode in conformity with the corresponding barcode symbology ensures that the barcode will be properly scanned within a predetermined maximum number of read attempts. Conforming with a barcode symbology may include conforming line and or space width to certain minimum and or maximum standards conforming line and or space height to certain minimum and or maximum standards conforming a length of the barcode to a certain length standard or the like or any combination thereof.

Before proceeding with additional description of the pixel array general aspects of some barcode symbologies will be described. Each symbology typically specifies a module width which is the width of a bar or space or other symbol in the symbology and or a module height which is the height of a bar or space or other symbol in the symbology. The module width may be specified as a nominal module width with a corresponding minimum and maximum limit that define a range of permitted module widths and or as a minimum and maximum width that define a range of permitted module widths. For example the UPC barcode symbology specifies a nominal module width of 13 mils with minimum and maximum limits of 80 e.g. 10.4 mils and 200 e.g. 26 mils . As another example the Code 128 barcode symbology specifies a minimum module width of 7.5 mils and a maximum module width of 50 mils.

A bar is typically a symbol including a foreground color such as black that is configured to substantially absorb incident illumination. A space is typically a symbol including a background color such as white that is configured to substantially reflect incident illumination.

In two width symbologies each bar or space is either wide or narrow. In many width symbologies the width of each bar or space is typically an integer multiple of the module width. Some many width symbologies use four widths of 1 2 3 and 4 modules.

According to each symbology a given character also referred to as a codeword in the symbology is made up of some combination of bars and spaces or other symbols in the case of 2 d symbologies .

Some symbologies specify control characters and other padding for inclusion in and or at specific locations of barcodes conforming to the corresponding symbology. Control characters include for instance start and stop markers. Alternately or additionally a given symbology may specify the size and or location of quiet zones that should surround barcodes conforming to the symbology.

The minimum number of modules required for a barcode in a given symbology is given by the following formula Eq. 1 where Mis the calculated minimum number of modules P is the padding for the symbology C is the number of characters per barcode specified by the symbology and Mis the number of modules per character for the symbology. For a UPC barcode including padding of 2 guard bars of 4 modules guard bar a middle pad of 3 modules and including 12 characters the calculated minimum number of modules Mis given by 2 4 3 12 7 95 modules.

The minimum number of pixels for a display such as the display to legitimately render a bar code in a given symbology is one pixel per module provided that the width of each pixel is equal to a width within the range of permitted module widths for the given symbology. Alternately or additionally two or more pixels per module may be used where the width of each pixel is equal to a width within the range of permitted module widths divided by an integer. The constraint that the width of each pixel be equal to a width within the range of permitted module widths in the case of one pixel per module or to a width within the range of permitted module widths divided by an integer in the case of multiple pixels per module is referred to hereinafter as the module constraint .

Accordingly at one pixel per module a UPC barcode that is 95 modules long can be rendered on a display that is at least 95 pixels long. Or at two pixels per module a UPC barcode that is 95 modules long can be rendered on a display that is at least 190 pixels long. A Quarter Common Intermediate Format QCIF display having a display resolution of 176 144 would be sufficient for rendering the UPC barcode at one pixel per module while it would be insufficient for rendering the UPC barcode at two pixels per module.

Another example involves a gift card including a Code 128 barcode. For a Code 128 barcode the padding P is usually 35 modules and the number of modules per character is 11 modules. If the barcode represents only numeric characters as opposed to alphanumeric characters each character in the barcode symbology can encode two numeric characters. In view of the foregoing and equation 1 the minimum number of modules Min a Code 128 barcode representing 22 numeric characters is given by 35 11 22 2 156 modules. Such a Code 128 barcode could theoretically fit on a QCIF screen subject to the module constraint.

Some commonly deployed barcode lengths are listed in Table 2 below. The barcode lengths listed in Table 2 do not include quiet zones.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate with the benefit of the present disclosure that analogous tables to Table 3 can be calculated for the same or different diagonal dimensions d the same or different module widths and the same or different x y ratios. Accordingly Table 3 is provided by way of illustration only and not by way of limitation.

With continued reference to Table 3 and by way of example to satisfy the module constraint for a module width of 10 mils a display with a diagonal d of 1.5 inches will have 124 pixels. Alternately or additionally any display with a diagonal d of 1.5 inches and having an integer multiple of 124 pixels in the x direction will also satisfy the module constraint.

If a display has sufficiently high display resolution a pixel width smaller than the module width can be used to permit the display to legitimately render each of multiple barcode symbologies having different module widths. For instance a display with pixels each having a width of 2.6 mils provides a 10.4 mil module width in 4 pixels for e.g. UPC and EAN barcodes. Such a display also provides a 7.8 mil module width in 3 pixels where the 7.8 mil module width is within the range of permitted module widths specified by Code 128 Code 39 PDF417 and other barcode symbologies. As another example a display with pixels each having a width of 1.5 mils provides a 10.5 mil module width in 7 pixels for e.g. UPC and EAN barcodes and a 7.5 mil module width in 5 pixels for e.g. Code 128 Code 39 and PDF 417 barcodes.

Thus to legitimately render a barcode in a given symbology the display in some embodiments satisfies both the module constraint and a resolution constraint requiring that the resolution in at least one dimension of the display be at least an integer multiple of the minimum barcode length in modules of the given symbology. Generally the resolution required to satisfy the resolution constraint increases as pixel width decreases below the module width and as the minimum barcode length increases.

Table 4 identifies the horizontal and vertical pixel resolutions and the diagonal d in inches of twenty four example displays that satisfy the resolution constraint for a Code 128 barcode having thirty numeric characters see Table 2 . In some embodiments any display having one of the horizontal and vertical resolution pairs shown in Table 4 that has a corresponding diagonal greater than that shown in Table 4 will also satisfy the resolution constraint. Moreover Table 4 assumes that the pixels of the displays are substantially square. Those skilled in the art will appreciate with the benefit of the present disclosure the adjustments and or modifications to be made if any to accommodate pixels with shapes other than square shapes.

Returning to in some embodiments the pixel array of display is configured to satisfy the module constraint for each of a plurality of barcode symbologies having different module widths. Alternately or additionally the pixel array of display is configured to satisfy the resolution constraint for each of a plurality of barcode symbologies which have the same or different minimum barcode lengths.

For instance the display may satisfy the module constraint for each of multiple symbologies at least one of which has a minimum module width of 7.5 mils and at least one of which has a minimum module width of 10.4 mils. Consider the case of displaying a UPC and a Code 128 barcode on display having a pixel width of 2.6 mils. From tables 1 and 2 to render the UPC barcode four pixels per module satisfies the module constraint e.g. 4 pixels module 2.6 mils pixel 10.4 mils module and yields a minimum of 380 pixels e.g. 4 pixels module 95 modules barcode 380 pixels barcode to satisfy the resolution constraint. Also from tables 1 and 2 to render a 22 digit numeric Code 128 barcode three pixels per module satisfies the module constraint e.g. 3 pixels module mils pixel 7.8 mils module and yields a minimum of 468 pixels e.g. 3 pixels module 156 modules barcode 468 pixels barcode to satisfy the resolution constraint. Taking the larger of the two pixel requirements indicates that a display with a resolution in at least one direction greater than or equal to 468 and a pixel width of 2.6 mils would satisfy the module constraint and resolution constraint for both a UPC barcode and a 22 digit numeric Code 128 barcode. For instance such a display may have a resolution in at least one direction of 480 pixels. In these and other embodiments the pixel array of display optionally includes a resolution of 480 320 pixels and a diagonal d of 1.5 .

Given the number of characters a particular barcode symbology may encode that symbology defines a name space that is limited in number. As used herein the term name space refers to the unique characters available given a particular barcode length and the number of characters per barcode in the given barcode symbology. For instance a UPC barcode with a length of 95 modules and 12 characters per barcode has a much smaller name space than a Code 128 barcode with a length of 277 modules and 22 alphanumeric characters per barcode.

Some embodiments disclosed herein involve unique barcodes distributed on a large scale e.g. in a unicast manner. Whereas some barcode symbologies have a fixed barcode length such as the UPC symbology that limits the size of the namespace for that symbology such barcode symbologies may not be suitable for large scale distribution of unique barcodes in a print format.

According to some embodiments however layered barcodes are implemented to effectively increase the size of the namespace in a particular barcode symbology. As used herein a layered barcode refers to a plurality of separate barcodes that collectively represent a single coupon gift card rewards card or the like. In these and other embodiments the layered barcode is presented to a barcode scanner by sequentially displaying the separate barcodes making up the layered barcode on the display of BRD . Optionally the sequential display of the separate barcodes is automatically triggered in some embodiments in response to validating a current scan or otherwise confirming that a current scan is successful. It is understood with the benefit of the present disclosure that such layered barcodes can be used to greatly increase the namespace size of a given barcode symbology versus a non layered implementation of the same barcode symbology.

Turning next to various example methods of operation are described according to some embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the art will appreciate that for the processes and methods disclosed herein the acts performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order than disclosed herein. Furthermore the outlined acts and operations are only provided as examples and some of the acts and operations may be optional combined into fewer acts and operations or expanded into additional acts and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments.

At barcode data of a printed barcode is determined. The printed barcode in some embodiments is a barcode printed on a coupon a gift card rewards card or the like. In the case of a coupon the barcode data may identify one or more products to which the coupon applies the number of products to which the coupon can be applied an expiration date or the like.

The barcode data is determined in some embodiments by capturing an image of the printed barcode and performing digital image processing on the captured image to decode the barcode in the captured image. For example the BRD smartphone A or desktop computer B may include a camera for capturing the image of the printed barcode and hardware software for performing digital image processing to decode the barcode in the captured image.

The barcode data is determined in other embodiments by scanning the printed barcode in the same manner as described above with respect to barcode scanner . In particular illumination is emitted toward the printed barcode and the reflected illumination signal is detected and decoded to determine the barcode data of the printed barcode. In this regard the BRD smartphone A or desktop computer B may include a light source and light detector for scanning the printed barcode to determine the barcode data.

At the barcode data of the printed barcode determined by act is communicated to the clearinghouse including database . Additionally at a unique identifier is communicated to the clearinghouse . The unique identifier may uniquely identify a particular user and or a particular device such as the BRD smartphone A desktop computer B or other communication device performing the communication with the clearinghouse.

In response to receiving the barcode data and unique identifier the clearinghouse determines whether a user account for the particular user or device already exists in the barcode database or other database. If a user account does not already exist a user account is created and stored in the barcode database or other database the user account including the unique ID for the user device. The user account created by act can be used to track user behavior with respect to barcodes that are associated with the particular user or device.

If a user account already exists and or after creating a user account at the clearinghouse creates new barcode data that includes 1 the originating barcode data of the printed barcode and 2 a unique signature associated with the particular user or particular device. Alternately or additionally the act may be performed by the barcode issuer in communication with the clearinghouse .

At the new barcode data is associated with the user account and or stored in the barcode database . Associating the new barcode data with the user account may include storing the new barcode data and or an identifier of the new barcode data in the user account. By associating the new barcode data with the user account the clearinghouse can track the behavior of the particular user or device with respect to the corresponding new barcode. Alternately or additionally the inclusion of the unique signature in the new barcode data at act may suffice to associate the new barcode data with the particular user or particular device in which case act can be omitted from the method .

At a new barcode corresponding to the new barcode data is caused to be displayed on the display of BRD . In embodiments in which some acts of the method are performed by the BRD causing the new barcode to be displayed on the display includes rendering the new barcode on the display .

In other embodiments in which some acts of the method are performed by the smartphone A or desktop computer B causing the new barcode to be displayed on the display includes communicating the new data of the new barcode from the smartphone A to the BRD where the BRD receives the new data of the new barcode and renders the new barcode on the display . Optionally the new data is communicated to the BRD using a Bluetooth protocol an 802.xx protocol or other wireless protocol. Alternately the new data is communicated to the BRD using an audio signal infrared IR optical signal visible optical signal or other wireless means.

Alternately or additionally the smartphone A and BRD may implement a public key encryption infrastructure PKI in which the smartphone A encrypts the new barcode data using a public key of the BRD before communicating the encrypted new barcode data to the BRD . After receiving the encrypted new barcode data the BRD decrypts the new barcode data using a complementary private key.

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein.

At a first signal is detected indicating that a scan of the barcode has been attempted by the barcode scanner . In some embodiments the first signal includes illumination emitted by the barcode scanner that is incident on the display and is detected by the light detector . Alternately or additionally the illumination has a predetermined optical spectrum of about 632.8 nanometers or 670 nanometers. The light detector may be configured to only detect illumination having a predetermined spectrum. Alternately the light detector detects the amplitude of both the incident illumination from the barcode scanner and ambient illumination incoming measurements from the light detector can then be compared by the BRD to determine when illumination from the barcode scanner is incident on the display .

At a second signal is detected indicating acceptance of the attempted scan by POS terminal . In some embodiments the second signal includes a beep tone or other noise made by the POS terminal when a scan is accepted by the POS terminal . POS terminals are often configured to emit such an audible noise in response to successfully scanning a barcode so that an individual operating the barcode scanner and or POS terminal knows when a barcode scan has been accepted such that the individual can scan the next item. The individual may be a store clerk a patron or the like and may be referred to hereinafter as a scanning individual. 

At based on the detection of the first and second signals the BRD determines that the attempted scan of the displayed barcode by the barcode scanner was successful.

Other acts and operations not shown in can be included in the method . As an example in some embodiments the BRD clears the barcode from the display in response to determining that the attempted scan was successful and displays a different barcode on the display.

As another example the BRD in some embodiments calculates a time delay between detecting the first signal and detecting the second signal and associates the time delay with a particular merchant or location. Optionally the associated time delay is stored in a database including a plurality of time delays associated with a plurality of merchants or locations. Alternately or additionally specific location information determined by the GPS module is included with the associated time delay. The associated time delays and related location information can be queried later to confirm whether a subsequent scan occurred at a POS terminal of a merchant location versus at a price checking scanner on the merchant location that is not connected to a POS terminal.

As yet another example the BRD in some embodiments tracks a number of times the barcode is successfully scanned and clears the barcode from the display after the number of times reaches a maximum number of times associated with the displayed barcode. In some embodiments the maximum number of times is specified by the barcode itself. Optionally in response to the BRD clearing the barcode from the display the BRD presents a message to a user of the BRD indicating that the displayed barcode was redeemed a maximum allowed number of times.

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein. For example the method of can be combined with the method of to validate the scan of a unique barcode generated from a printed barcode according to the method of .

At the barcode issuer generates unique barcode data corresponding to a unique barcode representing a coupon gift card etc.

At the barcode issuer sends the barcode data to a single BRD via network either directly to the BRD or through a communication device . The barcode issuer also sends the barcode data to the clearinghouse . Sending the barcode data to the BRD can be made secure by implementing a secure communication protocol such as https. Additionally the unique barcode data is unicast to the BRD . In particular the unique barcode data is only sent to the single BRD .

In comparison conventional systems typically multicast the same coupon including the same barcode to a large number of consumers such that the coupon barcode received by each consumer is generic. Because the coupon barcode is generic it is a trivial matter for a consumer to copy the coupon barcode and redeem it more times than may otherwise be allowed by the barcode issuer .

At the clearinghouse receives the barcode data and at the clearinghouse stores the barcode data in the database .

At the BRD displays human readable information corresponding to the barcode data on the display of the BRD . For instance if the barcode data represents a coupon the BRD may display for instance the product to which the coupon applies the maximum number of products to which the coupon can be applied the rebate or discount amount of the coupon a logo or other brand related iconography identifying the product or manufacturer of the product or the like.

At the BRD detects the scan of the display by the barcode scanner . In some embodiments act includes the light detector detecting the illumination emitted by the barcode scanner that is incident on the display of the BRD .

At and in response to detecting the scan of the display the BRD displays a barcode corresponding to the barcode data for a predetermined duration. At the end of the predetermined duration the BRD may clear the barcode from the display and display the human readable information for the barcode once again.

In some embodiments the predetermined duration is on the order of a second. More generally the predetermined duration is selected to be sufficient for the barcode scanner to read the displayed barcode but not much longer. Because the barcode is obscured during much of the scan by the barcode scanner the amount of time during which the barcode is exposed to being copied is even shorter than the predetermined duration during which the barcode is displayed on the BRD . As such opportunities to fraudulently copy the barcode are substantially eliminated.

At the merchant determines whether the scan was successful. If the scan of the barcode is not successful the method repeats acts and in an attempt to successfully scan the barcode. Optionally the BRD is configured to increase the predetermined duration during which the barcode is displayed with each successive attempt to scan the same barcode. In some embodiments acts and are repeated until the barcode is successfully scanned. Alternately or additionally the method aborts after a predetermined number of unsuccessful scans of the barcode.

In some embodiments rather than repeatedly displaying the same barcode during re scan attempts after a previous scan attempt is unsuccessful the BRD renders a different unique barcode during each re scan attempt. In this regard the BRD may receive e.g. at act from the barcode issuer unique barcode data representing a plurality of different unique barcodes all corresponding to the same coupon or other instrument. By rolling through the different unique barcodes during re scan attempts vulnerability to copy attacks can be substantially eliminated.

After the scan of the barcode is successfully completed and the barcode data represented by the barcode is extracted by the barcode scanner the method proceeds to act where the POS terminal sends a request to the clearinghouse to verify the validity of the barcode using the extracted barcode data.

At the clearinghouse receives the extracted barcode data and queries the database to determine whether the extracted barcode data represents a valid barcode. A barcode is deemed valid if for instance its corresponding barcode data exists in the database . Alternately or additionally the clearinghouse may determine whether the extracted barcode data represents an expired barcode. A barcode is deemed expired if for instance it has been redeemed a predetermined maximum number of times and or if the current date is after an expiration date associated with the barcode.

At the clearinghouse returns a response to the merchant indicating whether the barcode data represents a valid or an invalid barcode and or whether the barcode data represents an expired or unexpired barcode. Alternately or additionally in embodiments where the extracted barcode data uniquely identifies a particular person or BRD the clearinghouse may additionally update a user account associated with the particular person or BRD to track that the barcode was redeemed by the particular person or BRD .

Alternately or additionally where the clearinghouse determines that the barcode is valid the clearinghouse may update a record associated with the barcode to indicate that the barcode has been redeemed. Because the barcode is a unique barcode as described above subsequent attempts to verify the validity of the barcode in response to the barcode being presented to a merchant will determine based on the updated record the number of times the barcode has been redeemed and whether additional redemption of the barcode is permitted. Accordingly even if a unique barcode displayed on the BRD is fraudulently copied and presented to a merchant the uniqueness of the barcode prevents the barcode from being redeemed where the barcode has already been redeemed the maximum number of times.

At and based on the response received from the clearinghouse the merchant approves or denies use of the coupon gift card or other instrument represented by the barcode.

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein. For example the method of can be combined with some or all of the acts disclosed with respect to the method of to validate the scan of a barcode that is displayed on the BRD for a predetermined duration. In response to validating the scan the BRD may then clear the human readable information corresponding to the barcode and display human readable information corresponding to a different barcode and repeat various acts of the method to scan the different barcode.

At the BRD detects a current location of the BRD . In some embodiments the current location of the BRD is detected by the GPS module . Alternately or additionally the BRD detects its current location in conjunction with a cellular communication network using cell tower triangulation or other location detecting process es . Alternately or additionally the BRD detects its current location by detecting the proximity of a particular 802.xx e.g. Wi Fi network. Any other suitable location detection scheme now known or later developed can be implemented by the BRD to determine its current location.

At the BRD filters the information such as barcodes that is available for display on the display of the BRD based on the current location of the BRD to limit such information to location relevant information. For instance if the BRD determines that it is at a particular merchant such as a supermarket the act of filtering may limit the information available for display on the BRD to e.g. coupon barcodes a supermarket specific rewards card or the like. In some embodiments the UI of BRD can then be navigated by a user to select information from among the location relevant information.

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein.

At the user taps the BRD and smartphone A together. In some embodiments the tap is a single tap while in other embodiments the tap is a double tap. More generally the tap can be any detectable motion that has been previously configured as an indication that a user desires the BRD and smartphone A to bind together.

At the smartphone A emits a first audio signal indicating that it is ready to bind with the BRD and communicate information to the BRD .

At the BRD detects the first audio signal emitted by the smartphone A using e.g. the sound detector .

At the BRD binds with the smartphone A in response to detecting both the tap and the first audio signal.

At the BRD provides an indication such as a second audio signal indicating to the smartphone A that the BRD has bound with the smartphone and is ready to receive information from the smartphone A.

At the smartphone A communicates information such as barcode data to the bound BRD via a third audio signal in response to detecting that the BRD has bound to the smartphone A.

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein.

The method begins at by distributing a plurality of BRDs to consumers. In some embodiments the BRDs are provided free of charge to consumers while in other embodiments the BRDs are provided to consumers for a price. Alternately or additionally the BRDs are initially configured at least as elite status cards or member loyalty cards and are distributed by a particular merchant for use with the merchant. Optionally the BRDs may come pre loaded with incentives such as percentages off of purchases coupons etc. in connection with use of the BRDs as elite status cards or member loyalty cards. The BRDs are configured to display barcodes representing the elite status cards member loyalty cards percentages off of purchases and coupons etc.

At the BRDs are used to present barcodes to merchants and other entities with barcode scanners . The merchants scan the barcodes to redeem coupons gift cards or the like and or to access update rewards cards elite status cards member loyalty cards etc.

At data is collected regarding barcode usage by the plurality of BRDs in the manner already described above in association with e.g. . In some embodiments the collected data is stored in user or device specific accounts in the database .

At some or all of the collected data is provided to an interested entity such as a barcode issuer . The collected data may allow the barcode issuer to distribute targeted coupons to specific users or BRDs the coupons being targeted based on an analysis of the collected data. Optionally the barcode issuer is charged a fee for the collected data.

At a software development kit SDK is made available that permits smartphones A and BRDs to render based on barcode data received from a barcode issuer or other entity barcodes and or corresponding human readable information. Alternately or additionally the SDK allows for the creation of related applications that can be executed on the smartphones A and or BRDs . Alternately or additionally an application programming interface API is provided that allows communication devices to cause barcodes to be displayed on the display of BRD in e.g. proxy mode or remote display mode.

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein.

At the smartphone A is configured e.g. by a user to send a signal to the BRD indicating that an emergency call has been made in response to an emergency call being made on the smartphone A to a particular emergency number such as 911.

At the BRD is configured e.g. by the user to automatically display certain information on the display in response to receiving the signal from the smartphone A indicating that an emergency call was made using the smartphone A. This information may be referred to as emergency information. The emergency information includes in some embodiments one or more of the user s name address blood type emergency contact information allergies medications the user is taking or the like. The BRD A may be configured to automatically display the information in a human readable format or in a machine readable format such as a barcode. Optionally the emergency information is stored in the memory of BRD .

At the emergency information is encoded as barcode data to permit the information to be displayed as a barcode. The encoding of the barcode data may be performed by the BRD smartphone A or another entity.

At medical personnel such as first responders that have arrived on the scene in response to the emergency call by the smartphone A scan the machine readable emergency information from the display of the BRD to determine information that may be relevant in treating the user.

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein.

At the BRD is configured e.g. by a user to automatically display certain information on the display in response to receiving an unlock code from a trusted third party such as clearinghouse . The information displayed in response to the unlock code may be referred to as medical information. The medical information includes in some embodiments emergency information such as described above with respect to and or other information relevant to treating the user such as one or more medical card numbers insurance providers or the like. The BRD can be configured to automatically display the medical information in a human readable format or in a machine readable format such as a barcode.

At the medical information is encoded as barcode data to permit the information to be displayed as a barcode. The encoding of the barcode data may be performed by the BRD smartphone A or another entity.

At the trusted third party receives a request from a medical service provider to send an unlock code to the BRD .

At a scan of machine readable medical information presented on the display of BRD is performed to determine information that may be relevant in treating the user. In some embodiments a medical service provider uses a barcode scanner or other suitable device to scan the display of BRD .

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein.

At the BRD is configured e.g. by a user to display certain encrypted information on the display in response to receiving a predetermined input. The predetermined input may include a medical provider navigating a menu of the BRD to access the encrypted information or other predetermined input. The encrypted information displayed in response to the predetermined input may be referred to as encrypted medical information. The encrypted medical information includes in some embodiments medical information such as described above with respect to that has been encrypted using an encryption key that is complementary to a decryption key of a trusted third party such as clearinghouse . For example the encryption key may be a public key of the trusted third party and the decryption key may be a corresponding private key of the trusted third party. The BRD can be configured to display the encrypted medical information in a machine readable format such as a barcode.

At the encrypted medical information is encoded as barcode data to permit the information to be displayed as a barcode. The encoding of the barcode data may be performed by the BRD smartphone A or another entity.

At the BRD receives the predetermined input that triggers display of the encrypted medical information.

At the BRD displays the encrypted medical information in a machine readable format such as a barcode.

At a scan of machine readable medical information presented on the display of BRD is performed by the medical service provider to obtain encrypted medical information that may be relevant in treating the user. In some embodiments a medical service provider uses a barcode scanner or other suitable device to scan the display of BRD .

At the medical service provider forwards the encrypted medical information and credentials identifying the medical service provider to the trusted third party. In some embodiments the barcode scanner used by the medical service provider is a network enabled device or is coupled to a network enabled device that sends the encrypted medical information and credentials to the trusted third party.

At the trusted third party verifies the identity of the medical service provider based on the credentials.

At the trusted third party decrypts the encrypted medial information using the decryption key of the trusted third party.

At the trusted third party re encrypts the medical information using an encryption key that is complementary to a decryption key of the medical service provider. For example the encryption key may be a public key of the medical service provider and the decryption key may be a corresponding private key of the medical service provider.

At the trusted third party sends the re encrypted medical information to the medical service provider.

At the medical service provider receives the re encrypted medical information and decrypts it using the decryption key of the medical service provider to obtain decrypted medical information that may be relevant in treating the user. In some embodiments act is performed by a network enabled device and or a computing device of the medical service provider

The method of can be practiced alone or in combination with one or more of the other methods and acts described herein.

The embodiments described herein may include the use of a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware or software modules as discussed in greater detail below.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other tangible computer readable medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used herein the term module or component can refer to software objects or routines that execute on the computing system. The different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on the computing system e.g. as separate threads . While the system and methods described herein are preferably implemented in software implementations in hardware or a combination of software and hardware are also possible and contemplated. In this description a computing entity may be any computing system as previously defined herein or any module or combination of modulates running on a computing system.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

