---

title: Devices and methods for establishing a communicative coupling in response to a gesture
abstract: A method and a device are disclosed, whereby the device can be a first electronic device. The first electronic device is adapted to be coupled to a second electronic device. The method comprises outputting, with the first device, a request to communicatively couple with a second device in response to a gesture performed with the first device. The second electronic device and method of operating it are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389691&OS=09389691&RS=09389691
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09389691
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130621
---
The present disclosure relates to devices and methods for outputting a request to communicatively couple with a second device in response to a gesture performed with the first device.

An increasing number of devices can be connected to other devices. Often a user wants to connect a personal device which may be a handheld device e.g. a mobile or tablet device with another device such as a stationary device e.g. a personal computer external screen stereo system oven refrigerator vehicle etc. . In some environments there might be many different devices to which a user could potentially connect their personal device. Often different devices are named in such a way that they can be difficult to identify and thus such devices can be difficult to identify from a long list of connectivity options. Near field circuits may be used for connecting devices but these near field devices are not always available and require a close proximity between the two connecting devices as well as standardised protocols and complex circuitry and interconnections with components of the connecting devices.

The disclosure below is a description of one or more exemplary embodiments which are not intended to be limiting on the scope of the appended claims.

In a first aspect there is provided a method of operating a first electronic device the method comprising outputting a request to communicatively couple with a second electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device. A gesture performed with the device is a gesture performed while a user is grasping or holding the first electronic device to enable the gesture movement to be detected by the first electronic device. The gesture will be typically performed by a user holding or grasping the first electronic device in his her hand while performing the gesture with the same hand. The gesture may include any 2D or 3D special gesture performed with the first electronic device and examples include one or a combination of a up down movement a left right movement repeatedly rotating the first device counter clockwise then clockwise moving the first electronic device in a figure eight or following a repetitive s shape movement.

The gesture may be a predetermined gesture and the request is output in response to detection by the first electronic device that the gesture is the predetermined gesture.

The method may comprise outputting data by the first electronic device to the second electronic device indicative of the gesture.

The request may comprise the data indicative of the gesture and the request is transmitted to the second electronic device.

The method may comprise outputting to the second electronic device in response to the gesture performed with the first electronic device a signal comprising one or more of electromagnetic radiation such as light a visual pattern and or a radio frequency signal and sound.

The signal may be the gesture itself or comprises information indicative of the gesture. The request may comprise the signal or the request may be comprised in the signal.

The method may comprise transmitting a user selection of data from the first electronic device for receipt at the second electronic device wherein the request to communicatively couple with the second electronic device is a request to transfer the selected data to the second electronic device.

The user selection may be identified at the first electronic device in advance of the gesture being performed with the first electronic device.

The method may comprise outputting the user selection of data to the second electronic device in response to receipt of an instruction at the first electronic device from the second electronic device to output the selected data.

The method may comprise detecting with the first electronic device the gesture performed with the first electronic device. In some examples of operation the first electronic may not detect the gesture rather only one or more second electronics devices may detect the gesture performed with the first electronic device. If a second electronic device detects the gesture the second electronic device may compare data indicative of the detected gesture with data indicative of an optionally predetermined gesture stored by the second electronic device. The gesture may be optionally detected by the first electronic device in a mode of operation where the second electronic device has stored therein data indicative of one or more gestures. If the gesture is not detected by the first electronic device a different action may be used to identify that a user would like to establish a connection for example an input made on the first electronic device such as a gesture performed on a touch screen may be used to identify that the user would like to establish a connection.

The method may comprise receiving a response from the second electronic device indicative that the second electronic device is available for communicative coupling.

The response may be received from the second electronic device only if a predetermined criterion is met.

The criterion may comprise one or more of the first electronic device and the second electronic device having been previously communicatively coupled to one another the second electronic device is available for communicatively coupling with the first electronic device and the second electronic device comprising a user account associated with the first electronic device.

The method may comprise outputting the request to a plurality of devices wherein the second electronic device is one of the plurality of devices.

In a second aspect there is provided a method of operating a second electronic device the method comprising receiving a request from a first electronic device to communicatively couple with the first electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device and outputting from the second electronic device a response to the received request if it is determined that the second electronic device can be communicatively coupled with the first electronic device.

Outputting a response to the communicative coupling request may comprise outputting data for display at the second electronic device.

Outputting a response to the communicative coupling request may comprise outputting a response to the first electronic device to notify the first electronic device that a communicative coupling can be established.

Outputting a response to the communicative coupling request may comprise outputting an instruction to the first electronic device indicative of allowing data to be transferred to the second electronic device.

The method may comprise determining based on a predetermined criterion if a communicative coupling between the first electronic device and the second electronic device can be established and establishing the communicative coupling only if the predetermined criterion is met.

The criterion may comprise one or more of the first electronic device and the second electronic device having previously been communicatively coupled to one another the second electronic device being available for communicatively coupling with the first electronic device and the second electronic device comprising a user account associated with the first electronic device.

Access to an account of a user may be permitted on the second electronic device if it is determined that the second electronic device comprises the user account associated with the first electronic device.

The method may comprise detecting at the second electronic device a gesture performed with the first electronic device and the step of outputting the response comprises outputting the response only if a gesture is detected.

The step of outputting may comprise outputting the response only if the detected gesture is one of one or more predetermined gestures known to the second electronic device.

The method may comprise comparing data indicative of the detected gesture with data indicative of the one of the one or more predetermined gestures stored in memory in the second electronic device wherein the step of outputting comprises outputting the response only if the data indicative of the detected gesture is sufficiently similar to the data of one of the one or more predetermined gestures.

Outputting a response may comprise detecting a signal output by the first electronic device determining based on a signal strength of the detected signal if a communicative coupling should be established between the second electronic device and the first electronic device and outputting an instruction indicative of establishing a communicative coupling to the first electronic device if it is determined that a communicative coupling should be established with the first electronic device.

The signal may comprise one or more of electromagnetic radiation such as light a visual pattern and or a radio frequency signal and sound.

The may comprise receiving the signal by the second electronic device separate to receiving the request.

The method may comprise receiving data indicative of the gesture performed with the first electronic device detecting at the second electronic device the gesture performed with the first electronic device and comparing the detected gesture with the data indicative of the gesture to determine a similarity between the detected gesture and the data wherein the step of outputting the response comprises outputting a message i.e. notification instructions or data indicative of allowing a communicative coupling between the first electronic device and the second electronic device only if there is a sufficient similarity between the detected gesture and the data. It will be appreciated that receiving data indicative of the gesture performed with the first electronic device and detecting at the second electronic device the gesture performed with the first electronic device may be performed separate from one another. For example the data indicative of the gesture may have been received by the second electronic device in advance of the gesture being performed where the gesture is a predetermined gesture and will be known by the second electronic device based on the received data to allow a comparison to be made if and when a gesture is detected. Furthermore it will be appreciated that the data indicative of the gesture may be received for example periodically at the second electronic device while the gesture is performed with the first electronic device such that the data is representative of the gesture but may include only a portion of the gesture being performed.

The step of comparing may comprise determining if the gesture is aimed at the second electronic device and only if it is determined that the gesture is aimed at the second electronic device outputting the message to the first electronic device.

The method may comprise receiving data indicative of the gesture performed with the first electronic device comparing the data indicative of the gesture with data stored in the second electronic device indicative of a predetermined gesture to determine a similarity between the received data and data indicative of the predetermined gesture wherein the step of outputting the response comprises outputting a message indicative of allowing a communicative coupling between the first electronic device and the second electronic device only if there is a sufficient similarity between the received data and the data indicative of the predetermined gesture.

The message may comprise an instruction to the first electronic device indicative of allowing data to be transferred from the first electronic device to the second electronic device.

In a third aspect there is provided a method of operating a first electronic device and a second electronic device the method comprising operating the first electronic device according to any one of the methods described above in relation to a first electronic device in conjunction with operating the second electronic device according to any one of the methods described above in relation to a second electronic device.

In a fourth aspect there is provided a method of operating a first electronic device and a second electronic device the method comprising outputting with the first electronic device a request to communicatively couple with the second electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device receiving with the second electronic device the request to communicatively couple with the first electronic device and outputting with the second electronic device a response to the received request if it is determined that the second electronic device can be communicatively coupled with the first electronic device.

In a fifth aspect there is provided a computer readable medium comprising executable instructions which when executed by processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to perform any one of the methods described above.

In a sixth aspect there is provided a computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions which when executed by processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to output a request to communicatively couple with a second electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device.

In a seventh aspect there is provided a computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions which when executed on processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to receive a request to communicatively couple with a first electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device and output a response to the received request if it is determined that the second electronic device can be communicatively coupled with the first electronic device.

The executable instructions may be computer executable instructions. A device may be configured to receive the executable instructions from the computer readable medium and or comprise the executable instructions and be configured to execute the executable instructions. The computer readable medium may be a non transitory computer readable medium.

In an eighth aspect there is provided an electronic device comprising processing circuitry configured to perform any one of the methods described above. The processing circuitry may comprise one or more discrete electronic components.

In a ninth aspect there is provided an electronic device being a first electronic device comprising processing circuitry configured to communicatively couple with a second electronic device and output a request to communicatively couple with the second electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device.

The gesture may be a predetermined gesture and the response is output in response to detection by the first electronic device that the gesture is the predetermined gesture.

The processing circuitry may be further configured to output data to the second electronic device indicative of the gesture.

The request may comprise the data indicative of the gesture and the request is transmitted to the second electronic device.

The processing circuitry may be further configured to output in response to the gesture performed with the first electronic device a signal comprising one or more of electromagnetic radiation such as light a visual pattern and or a radio frequency signal and sound.

The request to communicatively couple with the second electronic device may be a request to transfer a user selection of data to the second electronic device.

The user selection of data may be identified at the first electronic device in advance of the gesture being performed.

The processing circuitry may be configured to output the user selection of data to the second electronic device in response to receipt of an instruction from the second electronic device to output the user selection of data.

The device may comprise a gesture input device configured to detect the gesture performed with the first electronic device.

The gesture input device may comprise one or more of a motion sensor an accelerometer and a gyroscope.

The processing circuitry may be configured to receive a response from the second electronic device indicative that the second electronic device is available for communicative coupling.

The response may be received from the second electronic device only if a predetermined criterion is met.

The criterion may comprise one or more of the first electronic device and the second electronic device having previously been communicatively coupled to one another the second electronic device being available for communicatively coupling with the first electronic device and the second electronic device comprising a user account associated with the first electronic device.

The processing circuitry may be configured to output the request to a plurality of devices wherein the second electronic device is one of the plurality of devices.

In a tenth aspect there is provided an electronic device being a second electronic device comprising processing circuitry configured to communicatively couple with a first electronic device wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to receive a request from the first electronic device to communicatively couple with a first electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device and output a response to the received request if it is determined that the second electronic device can be communicatively coupled with the first electronic device.

The device may comprise a display coupled to the processing circuitry wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to output response data on the display if it is determined that the second electronic device can be communicatively coupled with the first electronic device.

The processing circuitry may be configured to output a response to the communicative coupling request by outputting a response to the first electronic device to notify the first electronic device that a communicatively coupling can be established.

The processing circuitry is further configured to output an instruction to the first electronic device indicative of allowing data to be transferred to the second electronic device.

The processing circuitry may be further configured to determine based on a predetermined criterion if a communicative coupling between the first electronic device and the second electronic device can be established and establishing the communicative coupling only if the predetermined criterion is met.

The criterion may comprise one or more of the first electronic device and the second electronic device having previously been communicatively coupled to one another the second electronic device being available for communicatively coupling with the first electronic device and the second electronic device comprising a user account associated with the first electronic device.

Access to an account of a user may be permitted on the second electronic device if it is determined by the processing circuitry that the second electronic device comprises a user account associated with the first electronic device.

The processing circuitry may be further configured to detect at the second electronic device a gesture performed with the first electronic device and output the response only if a gesture is detected.

The processing circuitry may be further configured to output the response only if the detected gesture is one of one or more predetermined gestures known to the second electronic device.

The processing circuitry may be further configured to compare data indicative of the detected gesture with data indicative of the one of the one or more predetermined gestures stored in memory in the second electronic device wherein the step of outputting comprises outputting the response only if the data indicative of the detected gesture is sufficiently similar to the data of one of the one or more predetermined gestures.

The processing circuitry may be configured to detect a signal output by the first electronic device determine based on a signal strength of the detected signal if a communicative coupling should be established between the second electronic device and the first electronic device and output an instruction indicative of establishing a communicative coupling to the first electronic device if it is determined that a communicative coupling should be established with the first electronic device.

The signal may comprise one or more of electromagnetic radiation such as light a visual pattern and or a radio frequency signal and sound.

The processing circuitry may be configured to receive the signal by the second electronic device separate to receiving the request.

The processing circuitry may be configured to receive data indicative of the gesture performed with the first electronic device detect the gesture performed with the first electronic device and compare the detected gesture with the data indicative of the gesture to determine a similarity between the detected gesture and the data wherein the output of a response by the processing circuitry is output of a message indicative of allowing a communicative coupling between the first electronic device and the second electronic device which occurs only if there is a sufficient similarity between the detected gesture and the data.

The processing circuitry may be configured to compare the detected gesture with the data indicative of the gesture by determining if the gesture is aimed at the second electronic device and only if it is determined that the gesture is aimed at the second electronic device output the message to the first electronic device.

The processing circuitry is further configured to receive data indicative of the gesture performed with the first electronic device compare the data indicative of the gesture with data stored in the second electronic device indicative of a predetermined gesture to determine a similarity between the received data and data indicative of the predetermined gesture wherein the output of a response is the output of a message indicative of allowing a communicative coupling between the first electronic device and the second electronic device which occurs only if there is a sufficient similarity between the received data and the data indicative of the predetermined gesture.

The message may comprise an instruction to the first electronic device indicative of allowing data to be transferred from the first electronic device to the second electronic device.

An electronic device being a first electronic device comprising processing circuitry configured to perform the method of outputting a request to communicatively couple with a second electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device.

An electronic device being a second electronic comprising processing circuitry configured to perform the method of receiving a request from a first electronic device to communicatively couple with the first electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device and outputting from the second electronic device a response to the received request if it is determined that the second electronic device can be communicatively coupled with the first electronic device.

In an eleventh aspect there is provided a system comprising any one of the first electronic devices described above in conjunction with any one of the second electronic devices described above.

In a twelfth aspect there is provided a system comprising a first electronic device comprising processing circuitry configured to perform any one of the methods described above in relation to a first electronic device and a second electronic device comprising processing circuitry configured to perform any one of the methods described above in relation to a second electronic device.

In a thirteenth aspect there is provided a system comprising a first electronic device and a second electronic device the first electronic device comprising first processing circuitry configured to communicatively couple with the second electronic device and output a request to communicatively couple with the second electronic device in response to a gesture performed with the first electronic device and the second electronic device comprising second processing circuitry configured to communicatively couple with the first electronic device wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to receive a request to communicatively couple with the first electronic device and output a response to the received request if it is determined that the second electronic device can be communicatively coupled with the first electronic device.

Reference is made to which illustrates an electronic device which is usable in accordance with the disclosure below. An electronic device such as the electronic device of is configured to generate a user controllable interface on a built in display and or on a remote external display device or on a built in display and on a remote external display device. In the context of this disclosure the term remote means a display screen which is not built in to the electronic device with which the electronic device communicates via a physical wired connection or via a wireless connection.

It will be appreciated that in certain embodiments some of the features systems or subsystems of the electronic device discussed below with reference to may be omitted from electronic devices which are intended to perform solely operations in relation to the generation and output of display data and the modification of media content output.

In one embodiment the electronic device is a communication device and more particularly may be a mobile or handheld device such as a mobile or handheld communication device for example having data and voice communication capabilities. It may also have the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via a data link or network such as a short range radio frequency link e.g. Bluetooth or via a data network which may be wireless e.g. Wi Fi using IEEE 802.11 radio standards and may be connected to the Internet. It will be appreciated that the electronic device may take other forms including any one of the forms listed below. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in certain embodiments the electronic device is a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system such as a notebook laptop or desktop system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile handheld or portable communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device. In the context of this disclosure the term mobile means the device is of a size or weight which makes it readily portable by a single individual e.g. of a weight less than 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 or 0.1 kilograms or of a volume less than 15 000 10 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 500 400 300 200 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 or 5 cubic centimeters. As such the device may be portable in a bag or clothing pocket.

The electronic device includes a controller including processing circuitry such as a processor such as a microprocessor which controls the operation of the electronic device . Reference is made herein to a processor but it will be understood that In certain electronic devices more than one processor is provided with each processor in communication with each other and configured to perform operations in parallel so that they together control the overall operation of the electronic device. The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as one or more of a display a speaker electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as one or more of a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port an external video output port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem a clock subsystem a battery interface and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents presentation documents and information word processor documents and information spread sheet documents and information desktop publishing documents and information database files and information image files video files audio files internet web pages and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may also include program application data such as functions controls and interfaces from an application such as an email application an address book application a calendar application a notepad application a presentation application a word processor application a spread sheet application a desktop publishing application a database application a media application such as a picture viewer a video player or an audio player and a web browser. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The electronic device includes a clock subsystem or module comprising a system clock configured to measure system time. In one embodiment the system clock comprises its own alternate power source. The system clock provides an indicator of a current time value the system time represented as a year month day hour minute second milliseconds value. In other embodiments the clock subsystem additionally or alternatively provides an indicator of the current time value represented as a count of the number of ticks of known duration since a particular epoch.

The clock subsystem the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem the short range wireless communications subsystem and the battery interface together form a status report subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of the operating status of the device.

The display receives display data generated by the processor such that the display displays certain application data stored as a segment of the data from the memory any of the flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM in a predetermined way on display screen not shown of the display according to the processing performed by the processor .

In certain embodiments the external video output port is integrated with the data port . The external video output port is configured to connect the electronic device via a wired connection e.g. video graphics array VGA digital visual interface DVI or high definition multimedia interface HDMI to an external or remote display device which is separate and remote from the electronic device and its display . The processor outputs external display data generated by the processor via the external video output port such that the external display device can display application data from the memory module in a predetermined way on an external display screen not shown of the external display device . The processor may also communicate the external display data to the external display device in a similar fashion over a wireless communications path.

At any given time the display data and the external display data generated by the processor may be identical or similar for a predetermined period of time but may also differ for a predetermined period of time with the processor controlling whether the display data and the external display data are identical or differ based on input from one or more of the input interfaces . In this context the word identical means that both sets of data comprise similar content so as to generate an identical or substantially similar display at substantially the same time on both the external display device and the display . In this context the word differ means that the external display data and display data are not identical this is to say that these data may but not necessarily include identical elements of data for example representative of the same application data but the external display data and display data are not wholly identical. Hence the display on both the external display device and the display are not wholly identical although similar or identical individual items of content based on the application data may be displayed on both the external display device and the display .

In at least some embodiments the electronic device includes a touchscreen which acts as both an input interface e.g. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The processor is in communication with the memory and the touch sensitive input interface to detect user input via the input interface . The processor then generates or updates display data comprising a display object for display by the display device in accordance with the user input. The processor then outputs the display data for display on the display device . In an embodiment the user input may comprise a swipe gesture across the touchscreen interface .

In at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay has a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame not shown which surrounds the display . In such embodiments the frame not shown may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of the electronic device .

The input interface may also comprise the touchscreen in which case the electronic device may be referred to as a multi touch device . The input detected by the touchscreen interface may comprise any suitable user touch based input. For example the input may comprise a gesture input such as a tap a multi tap a long press a swipe or scroll or slide a pan a flick a multi swipe a multi finger tap a multi finger scroll or swipe a pinch a two hand pinch a spread a two hand spread a rotation a two hand rotation a slide and rotation a multi direction slide a multi finger slide and rotation a multi finger slide etc. It will be appreciated that the gesture input may comprise a sequence of input elements or stages performed within a specified or predetermined time frame for example a three tap gesture in which each tap comprises an element or a sub input a phase or a stage of the input and the three taps are performed within a time frame that enables the processor to detect the taps as elements of a single input. Additionally or alternatively an input may comprise removing a point of contact e.g. a finger or stylus from the touchscreen interface.

Many examples described herein refer to a gesture detected by a touch sensitive display but other methods of gesture detection may be used. For example a gesture may be a generalized trajectory description characterized as a sequence of 3D points in time and as such many different sensors may be utilized to detect such a gesture. The gesture may be performed by moving a portable electronic device or moving one or more body parts such as fingers or thumbs as a 3D spatial gesture. For example sensors such as an accelerometer gyroscope or proximity sensors or time of flight cameras may detect such gestures. Gesture recognition and detection techniques of this type are known.

An accelerometer or gyroscope may be utilized to detect 3D spatial gestures. A sequence of acceleration values may be detected in the different spatial dimensions as a function of time and constitute trajectory information that can be recognized as a gesture. For example a quick flick a tilt of the portable electronic device and a repetitive movement from left to right are examples of detectable gestures. A 3D spatial gesture includes a continuous movement a sequence of movements and a series of continuous movements or sequences of movements. Proximity sensors optical sensors and or cameras may be utilized to detect 3D spatial gestures comprising motion of objects spaced from the device.

A gesture input is different to input of a command by manipulation of a control component presented on the screen because a gesture input can be performed at any location within the display screen or a large area of the display screen in contrast to a single contact point for a user finger or input stylus on a corresponding control element. In order to input a command using a control component the user must contact the screen at a specific location corresponding to that component. For example in order to change an output volume using a volume control the user must select the volume control by touching the location at which the volume control is displayed and moving the displayed control element by a desired amount through movement of the user s finger across the screen. Such user input must therefore be precisely controlled in order to use control elements to input commands. Gesture based inputs on the other hand do not require the same precise control as they are not tied to a specific location on the screen. Instead a user wishing to e.g. scroll through a list of media content can do so by performing a swipe gesture at any location within a media player display.

As noted above in some embodiments the electronic device includes a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP which is in communication with the processor . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device communicates with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital ND conversion. ND conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth. Additionally or alternatively the orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the device relative to known locations or fixtures in a communication network.

In some embodiments the orientation subsystem includes other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

The electronic device in at least some embodiments includes a Near Field Communication NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other electronic devices or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna. In such an embodiment the orientation sensor may generate data which specifies a distance between the electronic device and an NFC transceiver.

The electronic device includes a microphone or one or more speakers. In at least some embodiments an electronic device includes a plurality of speakers . For example in some embodiments the electronic device includes two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some embodiments the electronic device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display.

In at least some embodiments each speaker is associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

The electronic device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of the electronic device or the housing of the electronic device . In such embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display or the housing. In at least some embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that electronic device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera the electronic device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of the electronic device . That is in at least some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on the electronic device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images detected by the camera.

In some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices . In at least some embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Any one or more of the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem and the short range wireless communications subsystem serves as a communication subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of an incoming message being received by the electronic device . The incoming message may be an email a message received via a social networking website an SMS short message service message or a telephone call for example.

The electronic device is in some embodiments a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device can compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as a media player module . In the embodiment of the media player module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other embodiments the presentation module could be implemented as part of the operating system or other applications .

As discussed above electronic devices which are configured to perform operations in relation to a communications log may take a variety of forms. In at least some embodiments one or more of the electronic devices which are configured to perform operations in relation to the presentation module are a smart phone or a tablet computer.

Referring now to a front view of an electronic device which in one example may be a mobile device is illustrated. The mobile device e.g. smart phone is a phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the mobile device may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the mobile device.

The mobile device includes all of the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The mobile device includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the embodiment the mobile device includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the mobile device so that it is viewable at a front side of the mobile device . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the electronic device. In the embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The mobile device also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the embodiment illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a speaker . In the embodiment illustrated the mobile device includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the mobile device is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the mobile device .

While the mobile device of includes a single speaker in other embodiments the mobile device may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some embodiments the mobile device may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the mobile device is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The mobile device also includes a microphone . In the embodiment illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the mobile device is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the mobile device.

The mobile device also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the mobile device is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the mobile device . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the mobile device . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which in one embodiment may be a computer is illustrated. The computer may be a general purpose computer device of the form that includes a processor and a display within the same housing. The computer also comprises one or more input devices including a keyboard not shown .

The computer may be any other form of electronic device and includes mobile devices laptop computers personal computers a desk top computer or tablet computer. The computer or electronic device may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The electronic device includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

The electronic device includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the electronic device so that it is viewable at a front side of the electronic device . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the electronic device . In the embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

A frame surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows the electronic device to detect a touch applied to the frame thus allowing the frame to act as an input interface .

The electronic device includes a plurality of speakers . In the embodiment illustrated the computer includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when the electronic device is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display .

The electronic device also includes a microphone . In the embodiment illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the electronic device is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other embodiments.

The electronic device also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the electronic device is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the electronic device .

The example electronic device also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the electronic device . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the electronic device . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

The electronic device may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the electronic device.

The electronic device which may be tablet computer or other mobile device is usable by an end user to send and receive communications using electronic communication services supported by a service provider.

The end user of an electronic device may send and receive communications with different entities using different electronic communication services. Those services may or may not be accessible using one or more particular electronic devices. For example a communication source of an end user s text messages sent and received by an end user using a particular electronic device having a particular memory module such as a USIM may be accessible using that device but those text messages may not be accessible using another device having a different memory module. Other electronic communication sources such as a web based email account may be accessible via a web site using a browser on any internet enabled electronic device.

Servers and are also connected to the communications network and one or more of them may individually or together support electronic communications services available to end users of electronic devices and enabling them to send and receive electronic communications. Servers and may be web servers or communications servers such as email servers.

Other servers and services may of course be provided allowing users of electronic devices and to send and receive electronic communications by for example Voice over IP phone calls video IP calls video chat group video chat blogs file transfers instant messaging and feeds.

Wireless network may also support electronic communications without using communications network . For example a user of smart phone may use wireless network to make telephony calls video calls send text messages send multimedia messages and send instant messages to smart phone and to display application data on a display screen of the external display device or control the display of application data.

The embodiment shown in is intended to be non limiting and additional network infrastructure may of course be provided such as a Public Switched Telephone Network not shown which may be used for example to make telephony calls using smartphone to a wired phone not shown .

Reference is made to a first electronic device as described in association with and a second electronic device as described in association with each of which include a processor that is functionally similar but is a different processor. The processor may comprise one or more processing circuits configured to perform the methods described herein and the one or more processing circuits may comprise one or more discrete electronic processing components.

In block of the flow chart a user selects a folder within the file structure memory e.g. memory of the first device . The user selection of the folder is performed by selecting a folder entering a menu associated with the selected folder and selecting to share the contents of the selected folder with a further separate device. It will be appreciated that the same sharing technique may also be used for individual files. Once a folder or file is selected by a user the processor of the first device generates data for a display on the display of the first device to shake the device to share the folder for example. An example of a display provided to a user is illustrated in Shake to share selected folder . It will be appreciated that other messages may be displayed to a user e.g. Shake to share or Perform a gesture with the device . The shake gesture is illustrated in the figure.

In this example the steps of selecting a file or folder and performing a gesture are described as two separate steps where the step of performing a gesture is performed after the file or folder selection is made. However in other example modes of operation a predetermined gesture may be associated with establishing a connection with a further device for example. When the predetermined gesture is performed with the first device and the processor of the first device determines that the performed gesture matches the predetermined gesture a connection request is output by the first device and optionally data indicative of the gesture is output with the request to the second device .

In block the gesture performed with the first device is detected by one or more of the orientation sensors e.g. gyroscope or accelerometer of the first device . The processor of the first device which is coupled to the orientation sensors generates data indicative of the detected gesture. The data indicative of the detected gesture comprises for example a distance moved a velocity of the movement an angle of rotation and a distance of rotation. The data indicative of the gesture is used by the processor of the first device to determine if the gesture performed is the predetermined gesture associated with file or data sharing.

In block the processor of the first device generates data indicative of a request to share the selected folder and its contents with a second device . For example data obtained from available input sensors of the first device are used to generate a model of the gesture e.g. a 3D model performed with the first device . The first device will typically generate the model using input from different sensor types. This use of more than one sensor may increase the robustness of the model due to the introduction of variances of the model terms. The detection of gestures and generation of 3D models is known in the art from for example InvenSense http www.invensense.com index.html .

The data relating to the model is the data indicative of the particular gesture being performed. The request is in the form of a broadcast to all devices within communicative range of the first device . That is to say that in this example the request is not addressed to a specific second electronic device remote from the first device . Rather the request is made to a plurality of devices within communicative range of the first device . The request contains data related to the first device e.g. identification and connection type and includes details of the folder to be shared in addition to the data indicative of the gesture.

In block the first device outputs the request and the data indicative of the gesture performed at the device to one or more second remote devices. The request and data are output in a packet format as a broadcast as is typical in the art over a short range radio frequency link for example Bluetooth or via a data network e.g. Wi Fi using IEEE 802.11 radio standards wireless network . As discussed above it is assumed in this example that the first device has previously established a communicative link with one or more second devices such that the request and the data indicative of the gesture is output as a broadcast to those second devices with which a previous communicative link has been established. It will be appreciated that the data indicative of the gesture may be continuously generated and outputted by the first device as the gesture is performed. For example data indicative of the gesture may be generated and outputted every 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 seconds while the gesture is continuously performed. Indeed it will be appreciated that there may not be a set or predetermined start and end point of the gesture. Rather the gesture is a continuous movement such as a figure of eight or a continuous forward and backward trace of an S following an s shaped movement for example.

In block the request and the data indicative of the gesture performed with the first device are received at one or more second devices . illustrates one of a plurality of second devices that receives the request and the data. In this example the processor of the second device illustrated in provides data to the display of the second device to inform a user that a request has been received. For example as illustrated the second device displays the message Request received . It will appreciated that only a single device is illustrated in but more devices within communicative range of the first device may also receive the request and will also display a similar message. The message is generated by the processor of the respective second device via an application which allows folder sharing between devices and corresponds to a similar application executable on the first device to allow folder sharing. The message informs the user of the first device that the request from the first device has been received and that it may be possible to share the selected folder with the device displaying the message once the sharing procedure is complete.

The message displayed on the second device illustrated in is a response to the request received from the first device and in some examples is only displayed if one or more criteria are met. These criteria comprise one or more of the first device and the second device having previously communicatively coupled to one another the second device is available for communicatively coupling with the first device and the second device comprises a user account associated with the first device or user thereof. It will be appreciated that other criterion may be used as required.

If for example none of the criteria are met the second device may display a different message to inform the user of the first device that a connection or communicative coupling with the device displaying the message is not possible.

In block and in addition to outputting a message to the user the processor of the second device in response to the received request attempts to detect the gesture performed with the first device using an appropriate input device. In this example the video camera is used since the gesture performed is in a form of a visual signal performed with the first device . Data from the camera is received by the processor of the second device . The data received from the camera is data indicative of the detected gesture performed with the first device . The detection of the gesture in this example is triggered or prompted by the receipt of the request from the first device . Accordingly in this example a user continues to perform the gesture with the first device until prompted in some manner to stop or if a predetermined time has lapsed as discussed above. As for the first device the processor of the second device also uses data obtained from available input sensors of the second device to generate a model of the gesture e.g. a 3D spatial model. The data generated by the processor of the second device is indicative of the gesture.

The processor of the second device compares the data indicative of the gesture received from the first device with the data indicative of the gesture detected at the second device . The comparison is performed to determine if the gesture is aimed at the respective second device . The matching of the gesture detected by the two devices is made by comparing the data i.e. models indicative of the gesture in a 2D or 3D space. A comparison between the two models is performed using for example a sweeping window blob tracking or non uniform rational basis spline NURBS looking at parameters such as positional tangential and curvature continuity and time. The robustness of the comparisons may be improved when using tangential detection over time. A comparison of rotation and orientation may also be used but this form of analysis may exclude a tangent analysis as mentioned above. The various variables of the 3D model may have different significance or weight in the model where time and position in a straight plane may rank higher than 3D depth for example.

The comparison involves comparing the two sets of data to determine if they are the same or similar. For example the comparison may involve determining if the two sets of data are similar within a predetermined accuracy or error for example 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 . If it is determined that the gesture data indicative of the gesture detected at the first device is within a predetermined percentage or error as above of the gesture data indicative of the gesture detected at the second device a positive determination is made and the gesture is deemed to be directed at the second device detecting the gesture. In examples where there are multiple second devices receiving the request for a connection and detecting the gesture performed with the first device each of the second devices may communicate with each other to transmit the data indicative of the gesture generate therein. In the example where multiple devices receive the coupling request each device generates data indicative of the gesture and communicates the data indicative of the detected gesture to each of the other second devices in the network. Thus each second device can compare the data generated at all second devices receiving the coupling request to determine which of the second devices is closest to or in proximity to the first device . In this example the second device that has the closest match between the data indicative of the gesture performed at the first device and the data indicative of the gesture detected at the plurality of second devices is chosen for making the communicative coupling from amongst the other second devices receiving the coupling request.

In block a determination is made that the gesture is directed at the second device illustrated in i.e. a positive comparison is made . It will be appreciated that at the same time one or more other second devices not shown perform the same comparison and determine that the gesture is not being directed thereto. Accordingly the one or more other second devices take no further action in respect of the connection request. Furthermore the one or more other second devices may also remove the displayed message once it is determined that the gesture is not directed thereto.

In block and in response to the positive comparison performed in block the processor of the second device outputs a response or message to the first device to allow the folder share. Allowing the folder share includes in this example providing a selectable display icon or notification or image representative of a folder share for display on the display of the second device which when selected by a user at the second device provides access to the pre selected folder of the first device . This is achieved by providing a data connection between the two devices that provides access to the contents of the selected folder. Alternatively the contents of the entire selected folder may be copied to the second device in block . In the example of a user selecting a single file to share the file may be copied to the second device for example. In an alternative example the processor of the second device outputs a response to the first device to allow the folder share and receives back from the processor of the first device details of the folder or files to be shared.

As described above the user may continue to perform the gesture with the second device until prompted to stop. The display of the selectable icon may be considered be an example prompt to the user to stop performing the gesture. Alternatively a further notification may be displayed at the second device to inform the user to stop performing the gesture or the first or second devices may emit a sound via speakers to inform the user to stop performing the gesture. If a negative comparison is made in block step by one or more second devices or if a connection cannot be established since none of the above mentioned criteria are met the second device may provide a display or notification to inform the user that the requested folder share is not possible. Alternatively the first device may emit a sound or provide a notification to indicate to the user that a connection cannot be established.

Thus a user is able to perform a predetermined gesture with a first electronic device in proximity to a second electronic device to which he wishes to transfer data and a connection is established and the data is transferred without further input from the user.

In block of flow chart a user selects a file to share with a second device on which the user intends to work on or interact with. This is similar to block described above in association with flow chart . Once a file is selected by a user the processor of the first device generates data for a display on the display of the first device to shake the device to share the folder for example. A shake gesture performed with the first device is illustrated in . The gesture performed with the first device is detected by one or more of the orientation sensors e.g. gyroscope or accelerometer of the first device . The processor of the first device which is coupled to the orientation sensors generates data indicative of the detected gesture e.g. a 3D model of the gesture . The data indicative of the detected gesture comprises for example a distance moved a velocity of the movement an angle of rotation and a distance of rotation. The data indicative of the gesture is used by the processor of the first device to determine if the gesture performed is the predetermined gesture associated with file or data sharing or establishing a connection. The gesture is performed by a user in proximity to one of a plurality of second devices with which the user wishes to share the data.

In block the processor of the first device generates data indicative of a request to share the selected data file with a plurality of second devices . It will be appreciated that ultimately the file will only be shared with a single device but the request to share the data file will not be specific to a second device. The request is in the form of a broadcast to all devices within communicative range of the first device . That is to say that in this example the request is not addressed to a specific second electronic device remote from the first device . Rather the request is made to a plurality of devices within communicative range of the first device . The request contains data related to the first device e.g. identification and connection type and includes details of the data to be shared. In this example the first device and a plurality of second devices are illustrated in . In the figure each of the second devices are illustrated with nothing displayed on their respective displays to indicate that each of the second devices are currently in a sleep or hibernation mode. That is to say that the second devices are active but at least the displays are not active.

In block the first device outputs the request and at the same time emits a sound . In this example the emitted sound emitted by speakers of the first device is inaudible i.e. the sound is emitted at a frequency outside of the hearing range of a typical human but audible sounds could equally be emitted. The request is output in a packet format as a broadcast as is typical in the art over a short range radio frequency link for example Bluetooth or via a data network e.g. Wi Fi using IEEE 802.11 radio standards wireless network . As discussed above it is assumed in this example that the first device has previously established a communicative link with one or more second devices such that the request data is output as a broadcast to those second devices with which a previous communicative link has been established. However it will be appreciated that the first device may also output the request in response to detected gesture to other second devices that are in communicative range but with which a connection has not been previously made as discussed further below. It will be appreciated that the sound is emitted for a time period after the request is output by the first device to allow the second devices to detect the emitted sound after the request is output and received. For example the sound is emitted by the first device for a period of for example 1 2 3 4 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 or 60 seconds after the request has been output.

In block the request data to establish a communicative coupling and share the user selected file is received by each of the second devices illustrated in which correspond to devices with which the first device has been previously established a connection. That is to say that the request is output to a plurality of second devices and each of the plurality of second devices receive the request. In response to receiving the request the processor of each of the second devices recognises the request as a sharing request via an application running on the respective processor and outputs a response. In this example the response of each of the second devices is to wake up or come out of hibernation which in the example illustrated in causes each of the displays of the respective second device devices to be turned on. This is illustrated in by a home screen being displayed. The display of the home screen indicates to the user that the request is received. This indication may also be used to prompt the user to stop performing the gesture . As described above the sound may still be emitted from the first device for a predetermined time after the user stops performing the gesture with the first device .

In block each of the second devices determine the location of the first device based on the detected sound. In this example this is achieved by each of the second devices communicating with each other to transmit data indicative of the intensity or signal strength of the detected sound. It is assumed that each of the second devices is on the same network and thus is able to communicate easily with one another. Once each of the second devices has received the data indicative of the intensity or signal strength of the detected sound from the other second devices each of the second devices is able to determine which of the second devices is in close proximity to or closest to the first device . The second device in close proximity to or closest to the first device is assumed to be the second device with which the user would like to communicatively couple his electronic device i.e. the first electronic device .

In block in one example the second device deemed closest to the first device outputs data to the first device to establish the connection and transfer the selected data file. In this example second device is deemed to be the closest device to the first device since the detected intensity or signal strength of the emitted sounds is greatest or greater than detected at the other two second devices illustrated. The data output may be an acknowledgment to connect such that the first device transfers the selected file. In an alternative example all the devices respond to the emitted sound by outputting data indicative of their respective relative proximity or distance to the first device or the detected intensity or signal strength of the sound emitted by the first device . For example if it not possible to determine the closest second device to the first device the user may be provided with a choice of possible second devices as described in association with blocks and . It will be appreciated that triangulation based on the detected intensity or signal strength of the sound emitted may also be used to determine the relative location of the first device with respect to the second devices . Triangulation may also be performed with a single second device which may incorporate two microphones separated by a predetermined distance. For example the determination of the closest second device to the first device may be determined by each of the second devices or may be determined by the first device upon receipt of data indicative of the detected intensity or signal strength of the sound emitted by the first device detected at each of the second devices 

In block the processor of the first device generates a list for display on the display of the first device where the displayed list is a list of possible second devices with which a connection may be established. The list is generated based on the data received from the second devices . The list may be ranked based on the data received from the respective second devices indicative of relative proximity or distance to the first device or the detected intensity or signal strength of the sound emitted by the first device and detected by the second devices . As illustrated in the list is ranked with second device at the top followed by second device and second device since based on the detected signal intensity data received from each of the second devices the second device is deemed to be closest to the first device when the gesture is performed. The list is typically provided if it is not possible to determine with which of the second devices a connection should be established.

In block a communicative coupling between the first device and the second device is established such that the first device transfers the selected file to the second device based on a user selection from the list illustrated in . The display of the second device may also include one or more of a message icon and notification that a connection is established and the transfer is complete. It will be appreciated that once the communicative coupling or link is established the user may more easily transfer further files or data without performing the gesture. As described in association with block the closest second device may be determined without intervention from the user such that the connection is established and the selected file transferred without further input from the user. Accordingly the user is able to establish a connection and optionally transfer a data file by performing a predetermined gesture in proximity to a second device with which a connection is desired.

It will be appreciated that it is not necessary to select a file or data for transfer or sharing. In an alternative example a user performs the predetermined gesture in proximity to a second device when a connection is desired and the steps of outputting a request and a sound are still performed and once the closest second device is determined as described above the connection or communicative coupling is established. The user may be provided with a message or notification on one or both the first and second devices to indicate the connection has been established. Thus when the user interacts with the desired second device data from the first device can be accessed.

In a further example and as discussed above one of the criteria for establishing a connection is whether the user of the first device has a user account on the desired second device . In this example the request from the first device comprises data related to the user and in addition to establishing a connection to allow a collaboration of the first device with a desired second device the second device is also unlocked to allow the user access to the desired second device without entering a username and password for example. That is to say that access to an account of a user is permitted on the second device if it is determined that the second device comprises a user account associated with the first device .

In the examples described above sound emitted from the first device is used to determine the location of the first device with respect to the second devices . In alternative embodiments visible light or other light in the electromagnetic spectrum may be used in a similar manner where the intensity of the light detected at the second device is used to determine the location of the first device with respect to one or more second devices . In a further example the signal strength of the Wi Fi signal may be used in a similar manner to the emitted sound. It will be appreciated that other forms of electromagnetic radiation may also be outputted or emitted by the first device in addition to or as part of the carrier signal of the request data e.g. the Wi Fi carrier signal . In addition to outputting light a pattern may be displayed on the display generated by the processor of the first device for detection by one or more second devices to determine the location of the first device with respect to the second devices . For example the data indicative of the display pattern may be outputted to the second device with the connection request to allow the respective second device to detect the pattern using the camera for example and compare the detected image with the data indicative of the pattern received by the second device from the first device as described above.

In the example of using the signal strength of the received Wi Fi signal it will be appreciated that the request to establish the communicative coupling is comprised in the signal. Thus a signal is outputted by the first device over the wireless network in the form of a request and the strength or relative strength of the signal is used to determine if the performed gesture is directed at the second device receiving the signal request. Furthermore multiple signal strengths may be used to determine the location of the first device with respect to one or more second devices. For example the strength of an emitted sound and the signal strength of the Wi Fi signal received at a second device may be used in combination to more accurately predict the location of the first device relative to one or more second devices.

In the examples described herein a response is output by the second device indicative that the second device is available for communicative coupling. The response from the second device may be for example one or more of a displayed image icon and notification displayed on the display of the second device . The response may also be in the form of an audible response emitted from the speakers of the second device . In further examples the response is outputted from the second device to the first device to acknowledge that a communicatively coupling is possible or is established. If a response is outputted to the first device the response is in the form of a data packet containing data indicative of instructions to complete the establishment of the connection or communicative coupling between the first and second devices . For example in response to the receipt of the data indicative of instructions to complete the establishment of the connection from the second device the first device outputs to the second device data related to the previously established Wi Fi connection for example.

The response output by the processor of the second device may be for example an instruction to allow the first electronic device to transfer data e.g. a preselected data file from memory of the first electronic device to memory of the second electronic device.

In the examples described herein it is assumed that a connection has been previously established with a second device. However as described above the request to establish a connection may still be output to other devices with which a previous connection has not been established. In this example any devices with which a previous connection has not previously been established may simply ignore the request or request that the first device or user thereof first sets up an account to allow a connection to be established. Furthermore in response to the request to establish a connection output by the first device all devices that are within range could respond irrespective if a previous connection has been established or if a user account exists on the further device such that a list of all possible devices can be generated at the first device for user selection.

Specific or predetermined gestures have generally been described herein but it will be appreciated that any 2D or 3D gesture may be performed by a user with the first electronic device . For example if a user would like to connect to a second electronic device he may be asked by the first device to perform a gesture with his device in proximity to a second device with which he wishes to connect. This gesture can be any movement performed with first device that allows the movement to be detected as described above and data indicative of the gesture to be outputted by the first device to one or more second devices .

In block the processor of the first electronic device detects a gesture performed with the first electronic device via one or more input devices e.g. one or more of a motion sensor an accelerometer and a gyroscope coupled to the processor of the first device .

In block the processor of the first electronic device generates a request to communicatively couple with a second electronic device . For example the request may be in the form of a data packet indicative of a request comprising data on the first electronic device and connection settings of the first electronic device .

In block the processor of the first electronic device outputs the request to the second electronic device .

In block the processor of the second electronic device receives the request from the first electronic device to establish a communicative coupling. For example the request comprises data indicative of a request to establish a connection using a previously established Wi Fi connection.

In block the processor of the second electronic device outputs a response if it is determined that a communicative coupling or connection can be established between the first and second electronic devices . For example. The processor of the second device determines if a connection has been previously established with the first electronic device and if a positive determination is made outputs an acknowledgment to the first electronic device to complete the coupling or connection. Additionally the second electronic device may also generate a display on the second electronic device to acknowledge that a request is received to inform the user that the request was successfully received.

In the flow chart illustrated in the first electronic device may not generate and output data indicative of the gesture as described above. In an example mode of operation the second electronic device has stored therein e.g. in memory data indicative of one or more gestures e.g. models . These predetermined gestures are associated with connection requests. When the gesture is performed with the first electronic device and the request to communicatively couple with the second electronic device is received by the second electronic device the second electronic device detects the gesture performed with the first electronic device as described above. As described above the processor of the second electronic device generates a 3 D model for example representative of the gesture performed with the first electronic device . The processor of the second electronic device compares the generated model with the stored model. If a positive comparison is obtained as described above the processor of the second electronic device outputs a response that a communicative coupling or connection can be established between the first and second electronic devices as in block . If a negative comparison is obtained i.e. the detected gesture is not deemed to be similar to one of the one or more gestures stored at the second electronic device a response to establish a communicative coupling is not output to the first electronic device .

While the present application is primarily described in terms of devices and methods e.g. first and second devices the devices may include components for performing at least some of the example aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon may direct the apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It should be understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by or on a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

It will be appreciated that the foregoing discussion relates to particular embodiments. However in other embodiments various aspects and examples may be combined.

