---

title: Systems and methods for providing location-based application authentication using location token service
abstract: Systems and methods for implementing a location token service (LTS) to enhance the security of mobile device identity tokens by using the location of the mobile device to augment the tokens. The LTS enforces re-authentication (login) of the mobile device to one or more applications if the mobile device moves beyond a threshold distance from the location of the last use of the token within a time period defined in a temporal threshold. The LTS increases authentication strength and drastically reduces the potential for spoofing or otherwise permitting unauthorized access to one or more applications on the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08831570&OS=08831570&RS=08831570
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08831570
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130419
---
The present disclosure relates generally to application authentication and more particularly to systems and methods for providing location based application authentication using a location token service.

In the enterprise environment companies often provide mobile devices to employees and develop a suite of applications to facilitate the day to day computing needs of the employees. For security reasons many of these applications require same form of authentication. Rather than require a user to logon to each individual application single sign on SSO allows the user to enter a user identification and password to logon to a shared network to access multiple applications.

User identifications and passwords are not the most secure authentication mechanism and can be spoofed by unauthorized parties. As a result SSO is sometimes enhanced by using digital certificates security tokens smart cards and or biometric authentication mechanisms for example to provide access to higher risk applications and information.

SSO between applications on a mobile device sometimes require a shared token. Certain mobile devices such as the Apple iPhone available from Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif. for example prevent sharing of tokens between applications thereby restricting the ability of companies to use SSO between multiple applications on the device. Applications can use a device s built in identity including the telephone number TN and the Universal Unique Identifier UUID for authentication. These identifiers however are fixed and easily found allowing for spoofing of the device s identity.

Systems and methods of the present disclosure provide for implementation of a location token service LTS to enhance the security of mobile device identity tokens by using the location of the mobile device to augment the tokens. The LTS enforces re authentication login of the mobile device to one or more applications if the mobile device moves a particular distance e.g. a pre determined threshold distance from the location of the last use of the token. The LTS increases authentication strength and drastically reduces the potential for spoofing or otherwise permitting unauthorized access to one or more applications on the mobile device.

In some embodiments the LTS is configured to limit authentication of applications based upon factors such as the location or movement of the mobile device or location or movement and time. In such ways operation of the mobile device can be controlled. To analyze movement for instance the LTS can compare the proximity of the mobile device to the location of the last use of the token. For example the LTS could remove functionality from the mobile device if the mobile device travels more than fifty miles in an hour. The tighter the control the more secure and the more logins are required. The looser the control the less secure and the fewer logins are required. The controlling factors such as distance and or time from the last use of the token are set for example by a network administrator IT personnel another party or a system.

In some embodiments the LTS exists as an LTS client application on the mobile device and an LTS server application on a network such as a company s intranet enterprise intranet . The LTS client application and the LTS server application work together to identify a user and maintain a logged in state between applications on the mobile device as the mobile device travels.

Each mobile device includes a telephone number TN and a Universal Unique Identifier UUID assigned to it. The TN is assigned by the wireless service provider and the UUID is assigned by the mobile device manufacturer. Both are usually embedded in the subscriber identity module SIM of the mobile device and are accessible via software application programming interfaces APIs .

The mobile device includes a location services application that provides location information for example in the form of latitude and longitude coordinates. In some embodiments the location information is retrieved via location determining techniques including but not limited to cellular triangulation global positioning system GPS assisted GPS A GPS and WIFI triangulation.

At login time the mobile device provides to the LTS server by way of the LTS client application the UUID TN and the initial location information of the mobile device in addition to the user ID and password. The LTS server records this authentication data as a session for the mobile device. The mobile device then uses the UUID TN and present location information as a secure token to provide the identity of the user. The LTS server validates these values based upon whether it is determined based upon a pre determined threshold distance that the mobile device could have traveled from the initial location to the present location in a given time. In some embodiments the pre determined threshold distance is defined by a network administrator IT personnel another party or a system for example. If the distance traveled is determined to be greater than the threshold distance the mobile device will challenge the user for his her user ID and password again. Otherwise the mobile device will accept the authentication data and allow access to one or more applications.

As required detailed embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed herein. The disclosed embodiments are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein for example exemplary and similar terms refer expansively to embodiments that serve as an illustration specimen model or pattern. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized such as to show details of particular components. In some instances well known components systems materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present disclosure.

While the description includes a general context of computer executable instructions the present disclosure can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software. The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

In some embodiments the mobile device is a multimode headset and has a variety of computer readable media including for example volatile media non volatile media removable media and non removable media. The term computer readable media and variants thereof as used in the specification and claims refers to storage media and communication media. In some embdodiments storage media includes volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media. For example storage media includes random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM solid state memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by the mobile device .

As illustrated in the mobile device includes a display for displaying multimedia such as for example application graphical user interfaces GUIs text images video telephony functions such as Caller ID data setup functions menus music metadata messages wallpaper graphics Internet content device status preferences settings map and location data and the like. The illustrated mobile device also includes a processor for controlling processing data and or executing computer executable instructions of one or more applications and a memory for storing data and or one or more applications .

In some embodiments the application s include a user interface UI application . The UI application interfaces with a client e.g. an operating system OS to facilitate user interaction with device functionality and data. In some embodiments the client is one of Symbian OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Palm webOS available from Palm Corporation of Sunnyvale Calif. Palm OS available from Palm Corporation of Sunnyvale Calif. RIM BlackBerry OS available from Research In Motion Limited of Waterloo Ontario Canada Apple iPhone OS available from Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif. or Google Android OS available from Google of Mountain View Calif. . These operating systems are merely exemplary of the operating systems that can be used in accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein. Other operating systems are contemplated.

The UI application aids the user in entering message content viewing received messages answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings interacting with other applications and the like. In some embodiments the other applications include for example add ons plug ins email applications music applications video applications camera applications location service applications LSAs power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications customer information management applications accounting applications authentication applications location token service LTS client applications proprietary business applications manufacturing applications production applications payroll applications combinations thereof and the like. The applications are stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware can also store code for execution during device power up for example.

The illustrated mobile device also includes an input output I O interface for input output of data such as for example user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface is a hardwire connection such as for example a USB mini USB audio jack PS2 IEEE 1394 serial parallel Ethernet RJ48 port RJ11 port or the like. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts other I O devices such as for example keyboards keypads mice interface tethers stylus pens printers thumb drives touch screens multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices monitors displays liquid crystal displays LCDs combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface can be used for communications between the mobile device and a network or local device instead of or in addition to a communications component .

The communications component interfaces with the processor to facilitate wired wireless communications with external systems. Example external systems include but are not limited to intranets network databases network storage systems cellular networks location systems Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP networks local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs personal area networks PANs and other networks. In some embodiments the external systems are implemented using WIFI WIMAX combinations and or improvements thereof and the like. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for providing cellular communications via different cellular technologies. In some embodiments for example a first cellular transceiver operates in one mode such as Global System for Mobile communications GSM and an Nth transceiver operates in a different mode such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . While only two transceivers are illustrated it should be appreciated that a plurality of transceivers can be included.

The illustrated communications component also includes a transceiver for use by other communications technologies such as for example WIFI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC RF and the like. In some embodiments the communications component also facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks Internet based radio services networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as for example the Internet an intranet e.g. business intranet a home broadband network a WIFI hotspot and the like via an ISP DSL provider or broadband provider. In some embodiments the communications component facilitates the transmission of authentication information from the mobile device to a network for processing in accordance with the methods described herein.

Audio capabilities for the mobile device can be provided by an audio I O component that includes a speaker for the output of audio signals and a microphone to collect audio signals.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a slot interface for accommodating a subscriber identity system such as for example a subscriber identity module SIM card or universal SIM USIM card. Alternatively the subscriber identity system can be manufactured into the device thereby obviating the need for a slot interface . In some embodiments the subscriber identity system stores the Universal Unique Identifier UUID of the mobile device and the telephone number TN of the mobile device for use in accordance with the methods described herein. In some embodiments the subscriber identity system is programmed by a manufacturer a retailer a user a computer a network operator or the like.

The illustrated mobile device also includes an image capture and processing system image system . Photos and or videos can be obtained via an associated image capture subsystem of the image system for example a camera. The illustrated mobile device also includes a video system for capturing processing recording modifying and or transmitting video content.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a location component for sending and or receiving signals such as for example GPS data assisted GPS A GPS data WIFI WIMAX and or cellular network triangulation data combinations thereof and the like for determining a location of the mobile device . In some embodiments the location component interfaces with cellular network nodes telephone lines satellites location transmitters and or beacons wireless network transmitters and receivers for example WIFI hotspots radio transmitters combinations thereof and the like. In some embodiments the location component retrieves location information at the request from a location services application LSA .

Using the location component the mobile device obtains generates and or receives data to identify its location or transmits data used by other devices to determine the mobile device location. In some embodiments the location of the mobile device is used by an LTS client application as part of an authentication message sent from the mobile device to a network server to authenticate one or more applications e.g. the applications . Methods for authenticating one or more applications based in part upon a location of the mobile device as determined by the location component are described with reference to .

The illustrated mobile device also includes a power source such as batteries and or other power subsystem AC or DC . The power source can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

Referring now to a location token service LTS server and components thereof are illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Although connections are not shown between the components illustrated in the components can interact with each other to carry out system functions. It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented.

In the illustrated embodiment the LTS server is a combination of hardware and software. The illustrated LTS server includes one or more memory modules that are operatively linked and in communication with one or more processors via one or more data memory busses . The illustrated LTS server also includes a network interface for facilitating communication with the mobile device . For example the LTS server communicates with the mobile device and vice versa to authenticate the mobile device to use one or more applications.

The term memory as used herein to describe the memory collectively includes all memory types associated with the LTS server . Examples of memory types include but are not limited to processor registers processor cache random access memory RAM other volatile memory forms and non volatile semi permanent or permanent memory types. Examples of non volatile memory types include but are not limited to tape based media optical disc media solid state media hard disks storage arrays database structures combinations thereof and the like. While the memory is illustrated as residing proximate the processor it should be understood that the memory can be a remotely accessed storage system such as a local server an Internet server a remote hard disk drive a removable storage medium a network storage device combinations thereof and the like. Any of the data applications and or software described below in connection with the LTS server can be stored within the memory as illustrated and or accessed via network connections to other data processing systems not shown . The networked data processing systems may include LAN MAN or WAN networked systems for example. Accordingly in some embodiments of the present disclosure the LTS server is configured as a server to one or more client data processing systems such as the mobile device as dictated by a client server model for example.

Referring now to a system architecture is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The illustrated system architecture includes the mobile device and an enterprise intranet . In the present view the mobile device includes multiple applications each of which is illustrated as including an LTS service library LTS LIB respectively. In some embodiments the applications and the LTS LIBs are included as part of the applications of the mobile device as illustrated in . In other embodiments the applications are programmed to call upon the LTS LIB for the functions described below. In some embodiments the LTS LIBs are included in the program code of each application and may include various instructions based upon the needs of a particular application. That is in some embodiments the LTS LIBs are customized for a particular application and are programmed as part of that application. In other embodiments the LTS LIBs are provided external to the applications as distinct libraries or as a comprehensive LTS LIB . In some embodiments the applications are programmed to call upon the respective LTS LIB for the functions described below. The LTS LIBs may form an LTS client application on the mobile device for example.

As used herein the term library refers to a collection of subroutines programs and or classes used to provide services such as an LTS to authenticate the mobile device to use programs including for example the illustrated applications . The libraries described herein can be programmed and configured to perform the functions described below in further detail with reference to . Those skilled in the art will appreciate and understand that the LTS LIBs can be implemented in accordance with the present disclosure as static or dynamic libraries. That is the subroutines and or programs of the LTS LIBs can be linked to an application at compile time or loaded into an application at run time. It is contemplated that other methods of linking libraries and applications that are known in the art can be used.

The LTS LIBs and the comprehensive LTS LIB are now described in greater detail. For purposes of readability the LTS LIBs are now collectively referred to as the LTS LIB . It should be understood however that the description provided below is equally applicable to each of the illustrated LTS LIBs unless otherwise noted.

The LTS LIB includes a set of instructions in the form of a library for managing interaction between the mobile device and the LTS server on behalf of the associated application s e.g. applications . In particular the LTS LIB is configured for retrieving location information from a location services application LSA and SIM data such as the mobile device s UUID and TN from the SIM system . The LTS LIB is also configured for transmitting the location information UUID and TN to the LTS server and if needed displaying a login page on the display of the mobile device . In some embodiments the LTS LIB receives the location information automatically and periodically from the LSA without the need to request the location information.

The LTS LIB is configured to retrieve location information from the communications component and or the location component by way of for example the LSA . In some embodiments the LSA is included as part of the mobile device s OS e.g. the client and may be called upon by any application such as the illustrated applications and or the LTS LIB to retrieve location information.

Generally the LSA employs at least one of WIFI WIMAX cellular and GPS technologies to determine the location of the mobile device based upon a user initiated request or an application initiated request. The type of technology used can be dictated by the capabilities of the mobile device . For example in some embodiments the mobile device includes only a cellular transceiver and can only retrieve location information using cellular triangulation techniques. In other embodiments the mobile device further includes a WIFI radio and can supplement the cellular triangulation data with WIFI triangulation data to determine a more accurate location of the mobile device . In still other embodiments the mobile device includes a GPS system for obtaining location information.

The LTS LIB is further configured to obtain SIM data such as the mobile device s UUID and TN from the SIM system . Alternatively the LTS LIB can retrieve the UUID and or TN from the memory depending upon the storage configuration of the mobile device . The LTS LIB sends the location information the UUID and the TN to the LTS server . The LTS server uses this information to authenticate the mobile device for a particular application as described in further detail below with reference to . As also be described in further detail below in some embodiments the LTS LIB is configured to communicate with an application e.g. the applications to provide a login page to the display for presenting a login request to a user of the mobile device if the mobile device has traveled a distance greater than a threshold distance.

In the illustrated embodiment the LTS server accepts requests for authentication of an application from the LTS LIB and validates the credentials i.e. UUID TN location information tokens using a single sign on SSO system . In some embodiments the application is a remote application such as an enterprise application . In this embodiment the mobile device is allowed access to the enterprise application via the enterprise network after authentication. In some embodiments the enterprise applications include the enterprise component of software operating on the mobile device such as the mobile device applications . In some embodiments the enterprise applications are stored on enterprise servers not shown in the enterprise network or on the LTS server . It should be noted that the enterprise applications do not need to be aware of the LTS LIB . Instead the enterprise applications can be provided the identity returned by the LTS server without the need for the enterprise applications to be involved in the login process.

In some embodiments the LTS server is a combination of hardware and software e.g. an LTS server side client application configured to selectively provide the mobile device access to one or more network applications. In some embodiments the LTS server stores one or more LTS keys and distributes the LTS keys to mobile devices that are pre authorized to access the enterprise intranet . When the mobile device seeks to access an application that requires LTS authentication the mobile device provides the LTS key to the LTS server with its location information UUID and TN.

In some embodiments LTS keys are defined by a network administrator or other personnel. In other embodiments LTS keys are generated using a key sequence generator such as a pseudorandom key sequence generator not shown of the LTS server . In still other embodiments the LTS server assigns LTS keys to each mobile device that requests access to the enterprise intranet and is pre authorized to access the enterprise intranet . For example when a mobile device is registered with the enterprise intranet the LTS server provides the mobile device with an LTS key to use in a request to access an application requiring LTS authentication.

In some embodiments the LTS keys are static and have no expiration time. In other embodiments the LTS keys are static and valid only for a specified time. In still other embodiments the LTS keys are dynamic and periodically generated by the LTS server . As an example the LTS server can be configured to push a dynamic LTS key to the mobile device after the mobile device is logged in e.g. after authentication with a previous key .

Referring now to an exemplary message flow diagram of a location based authentication procedure is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The illustrated message flow diagram includes the mobile device and the enterprise intranet . The illustrated mobile device includes the application the LTS LIB the LSA the SIM system and the SIM data . The illustrated enterprise intranet includes the LTS server and the SSO system .

The message flow begins at step when a user initiates the application on the mobile device for example by selecting an icon representative of the application from the display using the I O interface . Alternatively the application can be initiated automatically by another application in response to the mobile device coming within a threshold distance of the enterprise intranet or when the mobile device comes in communication with the enterprise intranet .

In any case the application starts and upon startup the application sends at step a request call init LTS to the LTS LIB . The request is to initialize LTS service. The LTS LIB is called upon by the application to authenticate a user to the application . At step the LTS LIB receives the request generates a location request message get current location and sends the location request message to the LSA . At step the LSA receives the location request message determines the location of the mobile device using any of the location determining techniques described above and returns a location response message return current location including the mobile device s present location to the LTS LIB .

At step the LTS LIB generates an UUID TN request message get UUID TN and sends the UUID TN request message to the SIM system to retrieve the UUID TN. As described above in some embodiments the UUID and the TN are stored as SIM data in the SIM system . Alternatively the UUID and the TN are stored in the memory and the UUID and the TN are retrieved from the memory .

In the illustrated embodiment at step the SIM system receives the UUID TN request message retrieves the UUID generates a UUID TN response message return UUID TN including the UUID and the TN and sends the UUID TN response message to the LTS LIB . At this point the LTS LIB knows the present location of the mobile device the UUID of the mobile device and the TN of the mobile device .

At step the LTS LIB generates a message call LTS service . . . including the location information e.g. latitude longitude coordinates the UUID the TN and the current LTS key if any . The LTS LIB sends the message to the LTS server whereat it is determined if a a valid session exists for the identified user mobile device i.e. if the mobile device is logged in to the enterprise intranet and b the mobile device is in a location within a threshold distance or alternatively the mobile device is in a location within the threshold distance within a specified time period temporal threshold . For determining if the mobile device is in a location within a threshold distance the LTS server in some embodiments determines if the mobile device is within a predetermined distance from the LTS server .

The LTS server enforces re authentication if the mobile device moves a predetermined distance such as a distance greater than the threshold distance or a predetermined distance from a location of the last user login. In some embodiments the threshold distance is supplemented with a temporal threshold such that the mobile device is required to re authenticate if the mobile device travels a certain distance within a certain time. For example the distance and temporal thresholds can be set such that the mobile device is required to re authenticate to the LTS server if the mobile device travels more than five miles within one hour. The distance and temporal thresholds are variable and may be increased or decreased based upon the desired security level for a given application. Certain applications may benefit from increased security while others may receive no appreciable benefit or may be considered a low security risk application. For example the distance and or temporal threshold values may be adjusted to require more frequent re authentication requests by reducing the distance and or temporal threshold values or to require less frequent re authentication by increasing the distance and or temporal threshold values.

If the location satisfies the threshold distance and optional temporal threshold at step the LTS server returns the user s information to the LTS LIB . Alternatively if the location and time period since last authentication satisfies the distance and temporal thresholds respectively at step the LTS server returns the user s information to the LTS LIB . At step the LTS LIB forwards the user s information to the application at which point the user can access the application as an authenticated user.

If the LTS server determines that the location of the mobile device fails to satisfy the threshold distance or alternatively that the location and time period since last authentication fails to satisfy the distance and temporal thresholds respectively the LTS server at step generates a message return user not logged in indicating that the user is not logged in and returns the message to the LTS LIB . In some embodiments the LTS server is also configured to generate a message indicating that the user is not logged in and return the message to the LTS LIB if the provided UUID TN and or LTS key is are incorrect a session does not exist or the authentication otherwise fails.

At step the LTS LIB returns a login page to the application . At step the application presents the login page to the user by providing the login page to the display of the mobile device . At step the mobile device receives the user s login information e.g. user ID and password from the user via the I O interface for example. The password may include numbers letters characters or combinations thereof.

At step the application forwards the user ID and password to the LTS LIB . The LTS LIB receives the user ID and password and at step generates a location request message get current location and sends the location request message to the LSA . At step the LSA determines the location of the mobile device using any of the location determining techniques described above and returns a location response message return current location including the mobile device s present location to the LTS LIB .

At step the LTS LIB generates an UUID TN request message get UUID TN and sends the UUID TN request message to the SIM system to retrieve the UUID TN. As described above in some embodiments the UUID and the TN are stored as SIM data in the SIM system . Alternatively the UUID and the TN are stored in the memory and the UUID and the TN are retrieved from the memory . In the illustrated embodiment at step the SIM system receives the UUID TN request message retrieves the UUID generates a UUID TN response message return UUID TN including the UUID and the TN and sends the UUID TN response message to the LTS LIB . At this point the LTS LIB knows the present location of the mobile device the UUID of the mobile device and the TN of the mobile device . The LTS LIB also knows the user ID and password as provided by the user at step .

At step the LTS LIB generates a message call LTS service . . . including the location information e.g. latitude longitude coordinates the UUID the TN the user ID and the password. At step the LTS server provides the user ID and password to the SSO system and a user session is created at step . At step the LTS server returns the user s information to the LTS LIB . At step the LTS LIB forwards the user s information to the application at which point the user can access the application as an authorized user.

Referring now to an exemplary method for authenticating the mobile device to access an application based in part upon the location of the mobile device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. It should be understood that the steps of the method are not necessarily presented in any particular order and that performance of some or all the steps in an alternative order is possible and is contemplated. The steps have been presented in the demonstrated order for ease of description and illustration. Steps can be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the appended claims. It should also be understood that the illustrated method can be ended at any time. In certain embodiments some or all steps of this process and or substantially equivalent steps are performed by execution of computer readable instructions stored or included on a computer readable medium such as the memory of the mobile device or the memory module of the LTS server for example.

The method beings and flow proceeds to block wherein the mobile device sends data including the UUID TN location user ID and password to the LTS server . At block the LTS server records the data and creates a session for the mobile device . At block the mobile device can then use the UUID TN and location as a token for user authentication for an application. At decision block the LTS server determines if the mobile device location is within a threshold distance. If it is determined that the LTS server is within the threshold distance at block the LTS server validates the data. At block the LTS server returns the user s information to the application. At block the application permits user access. The method can end.

If it is determined by the LTS server that the mobile device is not within the distance threshold or alternatively if the mobile device is not within the distance threshold for a given temporal threshold at block . At block the LTS server receives the user ID and password from the LTS LIB and at block communicates with the SSO system to login the user. At block the LTS server creates a session and flow proceeds to block . At block the LTS server returns the user s information to the application. At block the application permits user access. The method can end.

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and teach every possible embodiment of the present claims. Hence the above described embodiments are merely exemplary illustrations of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Variations modifications and combinations may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claims. All such variations modifications and combinations are included herein by the scope of this disclosure and the following claims.

