---

title: Extended and editable gamer profile
abstract: A user profile for an online gaming service is created. The user profile contains user gaming information received from a first location. The user profile is stored in a database, and the user is permitted to access the user profile from a second location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08986124&OS=08986124&RS=08986124
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 08986124
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131209
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application No. 13 350 514 filed Jan. 13 2012 currently pending which is continuation of U.S. patent application No. 11 335 960 filed on Jan. 20 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 118 678 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related by subject matter to that which is disclosed in the following commonly assigned application U.S. patent Ser. No. 14 059 239 filed on Oct. 21 2013 and entitled Extended and Editable Gamer Profile currently pending the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. This application is also related by subject matter to that which is disclosed in the following commonly assigned application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 350 490 filed Jan. 13 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 585 507 issued Nov. 19 2013 and entitled Extended and Editable Gamer Profile the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Historically a user s interaction with a game console has been specific to the game being played. For example some games provide a profile feature in which the user can store preferences settings and other information. If the user plays a different game the preferences and settings need to be entered again as the profile does not transfer across games.

In online gaming a multimedia console user has a gamer profile that is specific to the console on which the user plays. When the user plays a game on the console the user profile information for those games is stored locally. Thus whenever the user plays an online game on the console the gamer profile is accessible to each game. Unfortunately when the user visits a website associated with an online gaming service they cannot view access or contribute to the locally stored profile. In addition a user cannot use other devices such as a Personal Digital Assistant PDA or cellular telephone to view access and or contribute to their gamer profile either through the web site or through other channels by which the online gaming service may be accessed.

Thus conventional methods and systems currently lack the ability to enable a user to store a gamer profile in such a manner that the gamer profile remains accessible to the user regardless of the location from which the user accesses the gamer profile

In view of the above shortcomings and drawbacks methods computer readable media and systems are provided that provide user access to a user profile. In one such method a user profile for an online gaming service is created. The user profile contains user gaming information received from a first location. The user profile is stored in a database and the user is permitted to access the user profile from a second location.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The subject matter of the described embodiments is described with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or elements similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the term step may be used herein to connote different aspects of methods employed the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

In one embodiment user profile information such as a gamer profile is stored in an online gaming service database that is accessible to a user from at least two locations. The gamer profile may include any type of information that is relevant for gaming and may include text an image audio or video information or the like. Such information may be stored in any manner. For example the information may be stored as data fields within a database record. Non limiting examples of different locations from which a user may access the gamer profile are a game console PC web site remote device such as for example a PDA or cellular telephone or the like. Thus according to an embodiment a user is provided with a gamer profile that can be used across games as well as across locations and devices.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wireline or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many of such networks are coupled to the Internet which provides the infrastructure for widely distributed computing and may encompass many different networks. Aspects of various embodiments could be usable to distribute computer readable instructions code fragments applications and the like to various distributed computing devices.

The network infrastructure enables a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client may be a process i.e. a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer i.e. a server . A server may be a remote computer system accessible over a remote network such as for example the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server.

Clients and servers may communicate with one another using the functionality provided by a protocol layer. For example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW . A computer network address such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL or an Internet Protocol IP address may be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. Communication among computing devices may be provided over a communications medium. In particular the client and server may be operatively coupled to one another by way of TCP IP connections for high capacity communication.

In general the computer network may comprise both server devices and client devices deployed in a network environment in a peer to peer environment devices may be both clients and servers . Communications network may be a LAN WAN intranet or the Internet or any combination thereof that facilitates communication among a number of computing devices . Moreover communication network may comprise wireless wireline or a combination of wireless and wireline connections. Additionally the computer network may comprise a distributed computing environment. In such an environment a computing task may be spread over a number of computing devices that are addressable elements in a computer network.

According to an embodiment communication network may host a service that is accessible from the plurality of computers . Service gathers information and tracks users of computers to provide computing services for all of the users of service .

Graphics processing unit GPU and video encoder video codec coder decoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data is carried from graphics processing unit to video encoder video codec via a bus. The video processing pipeline outputs data to AN audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. Memory controller is connected to GPU to facilitate processor access to various types of memory such as but not limited to a RAM Random Access Memory .

Multimedia console may also include I O controller system management controller audio processing unit network interface controller first USB host controller second USB controller and front panel I O subassembly that are preferably implemented on module . USB controllers and serve as hosts for peripheral controllers wireless adapter and external memory device e.g. flash memory external CD DVD ROM drive removable media etc. . Network interface and or wireless adapter provide access to a network e.g. the Internet home network etc. and may be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless adapter components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

System memory may be provided to store application data that is loaded during the boot process. Media drive is provided and may comprise a DVD CD drive hard drive or other removable media drive etc. Media drive may be internal or external to multimedia console . Application data may be accessed via media drive for execution playback etc. by multimedia console . Media drive may be connected to I O controller via a bus such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection e.g. IEEE 1394 or the like .

System management controller provides a variety of service functions related to assuring availability of multimedia console . Audio processing unit and audio codec form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity and stereo processing. Audio data is carried between audio processing unit and audio codec via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline outputs data to AN port for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.

Front panel I O subassembly supports the functionality of power button and eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of multimedia console . System power supply module provides power to the components of multimedia console . Fan cools the circuitry within multimedia console .

CPU GPU memory controller and various other components within multimedia console may be interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures can include a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus PCI Express bus etc.

When multimedia console is powered ON application data may be loaded from system memory into memory and or caches and and executed on CPU . The application may present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on multimedia console . In operation applications and or other media contained within media drive may be launched or played from media drive to provide additional functionalities to multimedia console .

Multimedia console may be operated as a standalone system by connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode multimedia console may allow one or more users to interact with the system watch movies or listen to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through network interface or wireless adapter multimedia console may further be operated as a participant in the larger network community as illustrated in .

According to an embodiment when a game is executed on console it provides information to online gaming service operating on communications network . Online gaming service may be any type of hardware and or software that can be used to perform the tasks disclosed herein. For example in one embodiment online gaming service may be provided by one or more software applications running on one or more computing devices such as a server. Online gaming service may track the information for all of the users connected to online gaming service to provide a rich user experience. Online gaming service may track user information across games consoles computing devices etc. By tracking the information for all users of online gaming service online gaming service can aggregate statistics for all users and measure game playing ability provide a richer user experience by providing information about friends e.g. what game they are playing and what skill level they have attained track user achievements and generally measure statistics for a game aggregated over a large user community.

To provide a consistent data set across games an embodiment contemplates a schema driven process where each game generates a schema that defines the game data for a particular game. Through a game configuration process games use a service defined schema to describe the data the game generates about each game player. By using the configuration process online gaming service can understand the data as it flows from the game and it will be able to integrate the data in meaningful ways with the other data that online gaming service understands to create an online profile of each user of the online gaming service. The profile will follow the user wherever he or she goes on online gaming service i.e. it is game and location independent. Some of the profile in fact may be viewable by every user of online gaming service . It will be appreciated that in one embodiment the profile may be created by a user during for example a sign in or registration process with online gaming service as will be discussed below in connection with . A user may perform such a sign in or registration by way of for example game console PC web site or other device such as a PDA cellular telephone or the like.

When user uses game without a network connection information may be collected and stored in the user s offline profile in a hard drive or memory unit . Thereafter when user connects to online gaming service the online and offline profile may be synchronized. User can then view profile information locally i.e. on console or PC or log on to online gaming service and view user profile or may access online gaming service via another connected device. Also as explained in further detail below the user may be able to log on to a gaming web site to view the integrated online gamer profile or create it on the web site for the first time.

Gaming web site may have online profile information for that user created from online gaming service to create an online integrated profile to present at web site . This is because both web site and online gaming service may be operatively connected for example over a network as shown in to a central synchronized online gaming service database that stores and synchronizes user profile data received from any of online gaming service web site game console PC or any connected device .

While any of game console PC web browser or device are in operative communication with online gaming service database s such devices or may periodically synchronize with online gaming service database s to maintain an up to date integrated gamer profile. Such updating may occur dynamically at user request at predetermined intervals or the like. The manner of updating may be the same or different for any of devices or . In an embodiment a single user may have more than one profile stored in online gaming service database s or more than one user having a profile may use for example game console PC . In such an embodiment the updating or synchronization may update or synchronize more than one profile at a time. For example a user having more than one profile may update some or all of the user s profiles in a single online session.

Online gaming service database may in turn be operatively connected to repository or foreign language lookup table . Repository may be internal or external to online gaming service database and may contain additional data that may be presented to a user. For example in an embodiment a user may store any type of data e.g. images audio video etc. in the user s online integrated profile. Because some of such data can be large maintaining such data in online gaming service database may adversely affect performance. Thus in an embodiment a marker tag address or the like may be stored in connection with the online integrated profile in online gaming service database where the tag points to the data stored in repository . When online gaming service database is to present aspects of the online integrated profile to the user if the data is required the tag may be used to locate the data in repository which may then serve the data to online gaming service database . Online gaming service may then present the data to the user via web site game console PC or device for example.

Foreign language lookup table may be internal or external to online gaming service database . Foreign language lookup table may include for example information that permits at least a rudimentary automated language translation of information stored in an online integrated profile for example. Foreign language lookup table may enable free text translation or may be restricted to predefined data fields. For example in one embodiment some or all text information may be stored within the online profile in such predefined data fields. Translations for such data fields for one or more additional languages may be obtained and stored in foreign language lookup table . After accessing foreign language lookup table online gaming service may then present the translated profile information to the user via web site game console PC or device for example. Thus in an embodiment users that speak different languages may be able to view aspects of an online integrated profile regardless of the corresponding user s native language.

Referring next to shown is an example system and flow diagram that illustrates the creation and maintenance of an integrated gamer profile across an online gaming service gaming web site and one or more connected devices . For example user may create integrated gamer profile starting from game console PC web site and or a connected device . In the case of starting from game console PC for example user may first create an offline gamer profile that can be stored locally on a hard drive or memory unit as described above with reference to for example. User can play games earn achievements get high scores etc. and edit any or all of such information locally from game console PC .

It will be appreciated that in an embodiment all fields within gamer profile either before or after such profile is stored in online gaming service database s as will be discussed below may be editable from any device e.g. game console PC web site and or a connected device . In another embodiment one or more fields may specify the type of device from which edits will be accepted. Alternatively such fields or another component of profile may specify user s location such that user must be at a specified location to edit a particular field. Alternatively such fields may specify the device from which user must access profile to edit a particular field. Any number type or combination of restrictions may be put in place with respect to one or more fields in profile . If user has already signed up for the online gaming service such edits may be stored in the integrated gamer profile stored in online gaming service database s .

User may then sign up for online gaming service and that offline gamer profile is now stored as integrated gamer profile and is made available by central synchronized online gaming service database s making any or all of the games played achievements scores and the like available to any other user that is a member of the online gaming service. Additionally the other members of the online gaming service can submit feedback about that user helping to build the user s reputation within the gaming community.

Due to the integrated gamer profile information that is stored in online gaming service database s user can sign in to the online gaming service using any of game console PC gaming web site or connected device . To access the online gaming service user may sign in to the service using credentials such as a user name and password e.g. using Microsoft Passport or the like that may have been created when creating the online gaming service account. The service may allow access the service or profile when for example the credentials are verified. Once access has been granted user may retrieve or save the integrated gamer profile. Likewise user may edit the user s preferences upload personalized information e.g. text an image video audio or the like or perform other activities with respect to the integrated gamer profile. In addition user may edit a profile associated with a forum or other settings related to the online gaming service account or otherwise read write to the integrated gamer profile.

Such retrieving or saving or read write may take place using live cache . Live cache may be a mechanism that is internal or external to online gaming service database s and may communicate with online gaming service database s . In such an embodiment live cache stores a recently requested information such as for example integrated gamer profile information. Such information may be stored for a predetermined amount of time a dynamically determined amount of time or for any other duration using any manner of measurement. Thus when live cache determines that requested information is stored within or is accessible to live cache live cache returns the information without accessing online gaming service database s . When such requested information is not stored within or accessible to live cache live cache communicates with online gaming service database s to retrieve the requested information. In such a manner live cache may speed up the servicing of requests to access integrated gamer profile information.

Anything that happens around the user whether it is on the console PC or on the gaming web site may be stored or to central synchronized online gaming service database s enabling one integrated gamer profile that user from either the console PC web site or other connected device can view and interact with while also allowing user to maintain one identity. Such storing or may as discussed above in connection with occur at user request at predetermined intervals or the like and may involve any number of profiles for any number of users . At any point a game or other process of the online gaming service may access the profile data for any purpose such as for example conducting an online or locally executed game providing a user forum etc.

The various techniques described herein may be implemented with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the various embodiments or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing an embodiment. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computer will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The described embodiments may also be implemented in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer a video recorder or the like the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various embodiments. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to perform the functionality of the various embodiments.

While the embodiments have been described in connection with the embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiments for performing the same functions of such embodiments without deviating therefrom. Therefore the invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

