---

title: Social discovery of user activity for media content
abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure provide techniques that may enable user activity information to be automatically generated and shared with other users of a social network. In one example, a method of automatically publishing, to one or more social network services, information about user activities regarding media content items includes receiving user activity information regarding a media content item, wherein a user is a member of one or more social network services, and the user activity information is generated in response to one or more activities taken by the user with respect to the media content item. The method may also include receiving an indication of one or more users of the one or more social network services to whom the user activity information is to be made accessible, and automatically publishing the user activity information to the one or more social network services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009843&OS=09009843&RS=09009843
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09009843
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131018
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 551 405 filed Jul. 17 2012 which is a continuation of Application Serial No. PCT IB2011 002964 filed Oct. 27 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 407 097 filed Oct. 27 2010 the entirety of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosure relates to electronic media content and more particularly to sharing information about users interacting with the electronic media content.

Computing networks enable users to access and interact with electronic media content hereinafter media content including audio content e.g. music audio books podcasts etc. visual content e.g. videos images etc. textual content e.g. electronic books etc. and program content e.g. software applications computer programs etc. .

In one example a method includes receiving by a computing device user association information from a client device and receiving by the computing device user activity information wherein the user activity information is generated in response to one or more actions performed by a user of the client device at a media application executable by the client device without requiring the user to enter a command to cause the user activity information to be generated and wherein the user activity information includes an indication of at least one of playing media content viewing media content purchasing media content organizing media content commenting on other user activity information executing media content and downloading media content. The method may also include outputting the user activity information for the client device based on the user association information.

In another example a computer readable storage medium includes instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform operations. The operations include receiving by a computing device user association information from a client device and receiving by the computing device user activity information wherein the user activity information is generated in response to one or more actions performed by a user of the client device at a media application executable by the client device without requiring the user to enter a command to cause the user activity information to be generated and wherein the user activity information includes an indication of at least one of playing media content viewing media content purchasing media content organizing media content commenting on other user activity information executing media content and downloading media content. The operations may further include outputting the user activity information for the client device based on the user association information.

In another example a device includes at least one programmable processor a network interface and a user activity server. The network interface is configured to receive user association information from a client device and receive user activity information wherein the user activity information is generated in response to one or more actions performed by a user of the client device at a media application executable by the client device without requiring the user to enter a command to cause the user activity information to be generated and wherein the user activity information includes an indication of at least one of playing media content viewing media content purchasing media content organizing media content commenting on other user activity information executing media content and downloading media content. The user activity server is operable by the one or more processors to output the user activity information for the client device based on the user association information.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

People listen to music install applications and generally interact with various different types of electronic media content. Media applications may enable users to view execute listen purchase install or otherwise interact with a variety of media content items. One or more other users e.g. friends family members or other individuals may wish to learn which the media content items with which the user is interacting. For example friends and family may be a good source of information about new software applications music books movies etc. that a particular person may enjoy. However friends and family members may use different media applications or different computing platforms for interacting with the media content which may make it more difficult to share the information with each other.

Techniques of the present disclosure provide a mechanism for a person to share information about media content and the person s interactions with the media content with select other people even though the people may use different media applications that may be incompatible. Further techniques of the present disclosure may enable the user activity performed by a person e.g. through interacting with media content to be automatically shared with selected individuals. That is as the person interacts with the media content items the media application may store information about the user activity and automatically publish information about the user activity to selected people without requiring the person to perform additional activities e.g. issue a command to the media application manually enter user activity information into a third party service etc. to cause the information to be published. In some examples user activity information may be published to a subset of users of a social network as defined by user association information. User activity information may be generated in a manner that is transparent to the user as the user interacts with media content via a media application.

Server system may include one or more server computing devices. As shown in server system includes user activity server and media server . Each of client devices and server system may be operatively coupled by network . Network may include wired or wireless networks or both. For example network may include a wide area network such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN an enterprise network or one or more other types of networks. In some examples network may include one or more different networks. For instance client device and server system may communicate using a WLAN and client devices A B may communicate with server system using the Internet.

Examples of client devices may include but are not limited to portable or mobile devices such as mobile phones including smart phones laptop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players and e book readers. Client device and each of client devices may be the same or different types of devices. For example client device and client device A may both be mobile phones. In another example client device may be a mobile phone and client device A may be a desktop computer.

Client devices may include one or more input devices . Input device may include keyboards pointing devices microphones presence sensitive screens and cameras capable of recording one or more images or video as non limiting examples. Client devices and may also include one or more output devices e.g. output device of client device . Examples of output device may include a video graphics card computer display sound card presence sensitive screen and speakers.

Client devices may include media applications . Media applications may provide similar or the same functionality. In some examples media applications may include mobile or desktop computer applications that provide functionality described here. Media applications may be for example a media player application a media viewer application a media browser application a media organization application a media purchasing application etc. Media applications may include user activity modules such as user activity module as shown in media application .

Media application may cause output device to display GUI . GUI may include graphical elements such as social network activity entries A B. Graphical elements may include any visually perceivable object that may be displayed in GUI . Examples of graphical elements may include a background image video feed text control buttons input fields or scroll bars. Social network activity entries A B correspond to user activity generated by other users within a social network of user . In other words user may be a member of one or more social network services and activity of other users of the social network services may be published to a user account of user at the social network services.

For example social network activity entry A includes user activity information generated by a user named John Doe e.g. user A Social network activity entry A indicates that user A purchased a song by Usher titled OMG approximately four hours ago. Since the time at which social network activity entry A was published i.e. in the last four hours various users commented on social network activity entry A three times and no one 1 d the entry. As another example social network activity entry B includes user activity information generated by a user named Leah Cole e.g. user B . Social network activity entry B indicates that user B commented on user A s song purchase five minutes ago and one person 1 d her comment. In some examples the user activity of user A and user B can be automatically published to other users within the social network in real time or near real time such that shortly after user A purchased User s OMG social network activity entry A was published and viewable by user in GUI without requiring user A to enter a command to cause the user activity to be published.

In at least one implementation user activity module is configured to generate user activity information in response to a user s e.g. user activity with media application . In some examples user may configure user activity module to continuously capture the user s activity with media application and generate user activity information. In other examples user may configure user activity module to capture the user s activity with media application for a limited duration to capture only certain types of activities e.g. listening to music reading books purchasing applications etc. or not to capture the user s activity with media application .

User activity may refer to a user playing viewing purchasing organizing commenting or otherwise interacting with media content for example via a media application. That is the user activity information include captured user interactions with media content items. In at least some implementations user activity information may comprise one or more of 1 a user identifier e.g. user name identification code etc. that identifies a user that performed the user activity 2 a media content identifier e.g. artist name content title identification code etc. that identifies a media content item associated with the user activity 3 an action identifier that identifies one or more actions e.g. play view purchase organize comment etc. performed with respect to the media content item 4 a time identifier that identifies a time at which the one or more actions were performed 5 a media application identifier that identifies a type of media application e.g. iTunes Zune etc. utilized to perform the one or more actions 6 other suitable information. User activity module may be configured to automatically generate user activity information responsive to user interacting with media application . That is user activity module may generate the user activity information responsive to the user interacting with media application without receiving further user interaction e.g. a command or other direct indication from user to generate the user activity information. In various instances user activity associated with user may also be included within GUI .

User activity information generated by user activity module may be sent by user activity module from client device to server system where the user activity information or a portion thereof may be published to other users e.g. to users A B of client devices A B respectively by user activity server . As one example user may operate media application to access or otherwise interact with one or more media content items stored locally at client device or at remote data store such as at server system . User activity module then sends at least an indication of the user activity e.g. a message that indicates that user played a particular song bought a particular software application read a book etc. to user activity server via network . In some examples in addition to or instead of sending the user activity information to user activity server the user activity information generated by user activity module may be stored locally at client device .

In some examples user activity module may include a plug in for media application . For example user may download user activity module from server device or other source as a plug in for media application . However user activity module may include an integrated portion of media application in various instances. In at least some implementations user activity module and or media application may instead reside at a server e.g. media server of server system that is remote from client device whereby user may operate client device to interact with the remote media application e.g. media server via network . Accordingly user activity module may reside at any suitable location or combination of locations in a computing network. In at least some implementations user activity module may include an application programming interface API that enables other computer applications or programs such as e.g. user activity server or other suitable resource to obtain user activity information or user association information from user activity module or to provide user association information to user activity module .

In some embodiments user activity server can be configured to obtain user activity information from one or more of client devices and publish the user activity information or portion thereof to other users. User activity information may be published to a subset of users of a social network as defined by user association information linking users in the social network. In some examples user activity server may obtain user association information from each user of a social network via respective clients. User activity server may utilize user association information to control publication of user activity information among users of the social network. The user association information may specify a subset of the users of the social network to which the user activity information should be published i.e. enable a subset of the users of the social network to view the user activity information or may specify that the user activity information should be published to all of the users of the social network i.e. enable all of the users of the social network to view the user activity information . In general the user association information specifies one or more groups of users to which the user activity information should be published or otherwise made available. The groups of users may include all users of one or more social network services or a subset of the users of the one or more social network services.

In some examples user activity server may utilize previously specified user association information i.e. user association information that is not provided to user activity server at the time when user activity server generates the user activity information and or receives the user activity information from one of client devices to control the publication of the user activity information. That is in some examples a user e.g. user may provide a default group of users to which to publish the user activity information. User may override modify or otherwise change the previously provided user association information by for example providing new user association information at or about the same time as performing the one or more activities with respect to the media content items.

User may also provide different user association information for each different type of media content item for each different social network service and or for each different type of activity taken by user with respect to the media content items. For example user may provider user association information that specifies that a first group of users e.g. a book club should received user activity information about books that user is reading and provide different user association information that specifies that a second group of users should receive user activity information about music user has purchased. As another example user may provide user association information to specify various groups of users that may receive user activity information about purchased media content items installed media content items and or deleted media content items. The groups of users may include users that all belong subscribe or are otherwise members of one social network service or that span two or more different social network services i.e. where a first user of the group belongs to a first social network service and a second user of the group belongs to a second social network service .

In other examples such as when no user association information was previously provided by a user user activity server may cause user activity client to display at GUI a request for user association information. User may then provide the user association information that is used to control the publication of the user activity information generated based on the actions taken by user with respect to the media content items. In at least some implementations user activity information may be published to only the subset of users indicated by the user association information thereby enabling a user to control publication of the user s activity information. In at least some implementations user activity server may comprise an application programming interface API that enables other computer applications or programs to provide user activity information or user association information to user activity server or to obtain user activity information or user association from user activity server .

As shown in the specific example of server system includes one or more processors memory a network interface and one or more storage devices . Server system also includes an operating system that is executable by server system . Server system in one example further includes user activity server and media server that are also executable by server system . Each of components and may be interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications.

Processors in one example are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within client device . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices .

Memory in one example is configured to store information within server system during operation. Memory in some examples is described as a computer readable storage medium. In some examples memory is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of memory is not long term storage. Memory in some examples is described as a volatile memory meaning that memory does not maintain stored contents when the computer is turned off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples memory is used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Memory in one example is used by software or applications running on server system e.g. applications to temporarily store information during program execution.

Server system in some examples also includes a network interface . Server system in one example utilizes network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices as well as USB. In some examples server system utilizes network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as client devices of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

Storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. Storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories. As shown in storage devices includes association information data repository ASSOC. INFO. and user activity data repository . Association information data repository and user activity data repository may each be configured as a database flat file table or other data structure stored within storage devices of server system . In some examples association information data repository and user activity data repository may be configured as two separate data repositories while in other examples they may be a part of a single data repository.

Server system may include operating system . Operating system in some examples controls the operation of components of server system . For example operating system in one example facilitates the interaction of user activity server and or media server with processors memory network interface and storage device . Applications user activity server and media server may each include program instructions and or data that are executable by server system . For example user activity server may include instructions that cause server system to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure user activity server may receive user association information and or user activity information from client devices of . For example upon installation or configuration of user activity module at client device user may provide user association information that specifies one or more one or more social network services e.g. Google Facebook LinkedIn etc. and or includes information that identifies one or more users that are to receive user activity information generated responsive to actions performed by user . User activity module may send the user association information to user activity server . User activity server may receive the user association information and store it within association information data repository . In general association information data repository may be configured to store any type of user association information received from one or more different client devices e.g. client devices .

User activity server may authenticate at the one or more social network services using any user authentication information included in the user association information such that when user activity server either generates or receives user activity information user activity server may publish at least an indication of the user activity information at the social network services such that the user activity information is accessible to one or more users of the social network services. User activity server may also configure e.g. a user account associated with user based on the user identification information included in the user association information such that when user activity server generates or receives user activity information associated with user at least an indication of the user activity information is published to the users identified in the received user association information.

User activity server may receive user activity information from client devices and or may generate user activity information based on information received from media server . In examples where media application accesses media store at server system media application may exchange information with media server . The information exchanged with media server may include commands to view playback purchase install or otherwise interact with media content as well as user account information. Media server may receive the commands and perform various actions based on the commands such as outputting an audio file to media application . As media server processes the commands media server may send an indication of the commands the media content associated with the commands and user information that identifies the user interacting with media application e.g. user to user activity server for generation of user activity information. User activity server generates the user activity information based on the information received from media server and stores at least an indication of the user activity information in user activity data repository .

User activity server may publish user activity information whether user activity server receives user activity information from user activity module or generates user activity information from information received from media server . When publishing the user activity information user activity server may use user association information and or user authentication information received from a user e.g. user . In some examples the user authentication information is included within the received user association information. User activity server identifies any social network services for which it has received user authentication information and authenticates with the social network services. User activity server then publishes the user activity information at the social network services on behalf of the user and without requiring the user to take further actions to cause the user activity information to be published. In some examples when publishing user activity information for a first time at each social network service user activity server may send a command to user activity module to cause a notification and or request for authorization to be displayed in GUI .

User activity server may also publish the user activity information other than at social network services. For example when the user association information includes information about one or more other users e.g. an email address instant messaging username phone number etc. user activity server may text email call message or otherwise publish the user activity information to the users specified in the user association information. In examples where social network service information as well as information about one or more other users are both included in the user association information received by user activity server user activity server may both publishing the user activity information at the social network services and send the user activity information to the other users in a manner determined based on the information about the other users.

GUI provides an example of user activity information that may be published to a user activity feed presented on a graphical display of a client. GUI shows for a given user a user activity feed that comprises user activity information generated in response to user activity of other users having an associational relationship with the user. For example GUI includes follower information following information search box and user activity entries . User may provide a profile picture to include in GUI that may be displayed when user views GUI and may also be included in user activity entries that include user activity information based on actions associated with user .

User may select one or more other users to follow and may be followed by one or more other users. To follow another user means to subscribe to or otherwise receive user activity information for the other user. To be followed by another user means that the other user receives user activity information generated based on actions associated with user . GUI may include a graphical and or textual indication of a number of users following user i.e. followers and a number of users that user is following i.e. following .

Each user activity entry may include one or more of a user identifier an action identifier a media content identifier and an activity status indicator for a given user. User identifier may include a name of a user and a picture or other image selected by the user. Action identifier includes information about how the user e.g. user interacted with the media application and or other information describing a user activity. For example in the first user activity entry action identifier indicates that John Smith scored an 86 in music compatibility with user . In the second user activity entry action identifier indicates that Jane Smith made a purchase. In some examples user activity entry includes media content identifier that indicates a particular name artist publisher title etc. of the media content associated with action identifier e.g. the Radio application for Android was installed by Leah Cole . Media content identifier may include a link to a store where a user can purchase the media content link to additional information about the media content and or activate a preview of the media content e.g. when the media content is an audio file . Activity status indicator includes information about when the user activity occurred i.e. 3 hours ago whether any users have commented on the user activity i.e. 0 comments and whether any users have 1 d the user activity i.e. 3 1 s .

GUI may also include buttons A E that may enable a user e.g. user to cause different graphical user interfaces to be displayed and perform different actions. For example activation of button A may cause a media player interface to be displayed that may enable a user to control playback of various audio and or video content. Activation of button B may cause a social network service interface to be displayed that may enable a user to configure user association information. In some examples the social network service interface may include additional information about media content recommended by one or more users that user is following. Activating button C may cause a store interface to be displayed that may enable a user to preview purchase and download additional media content. Activating button D may cause a download interface to be displayed that includes information about any media content that may be actively downloading or may have been previously downloaded e.g. from an online store . Activating button E may cause other interfaces to be displayed that may enable a user to perform additional functions. For example a configuration interface may be displayed that enables a user to configure user account information and manage the distribution of user activity information associated with the user.

While not depicted in GUI may further include a media application identifier to indicate that media content identifier was purchased via a particular media application such as iTunes for example. In at least some implementations user activity information may be presented as hyperlinks that enable a user to select the hyperlink to access additional information. For example a media content identifier may be selected by a user to sample and or purchase the media content identified by the media content identifier. Selectable icons may also be presented to enable users to access additional information sample or purchase media content.

GUI may be generated by a browser application responsive to a user e.g. user logging into a website. As shown in GUI includes active users display and user activity entries A D. Active users display may include one or more graphical representations of users within a social network of user that are also logged in to or otherwise accessing the website while user is logged in to the website. For example if user A of is within a social network of user e.g. as determined by user association information a graphical representation of user A may be included in active users display . The graphical representation may be chosen by the user whom it represents e.g. an avatar . A user may select one or more of the users included in active users display to view user activity associated with the selected user chat with the user or otherwise filter content based on or interact with the selected user.

Each user activity entry may include a user graphics and media content graphics . User graphics may be a graphical representation associated with a user and in various instances is the same graphical representation as the graphical representation for the user displayed in active users display . Media content graphics may be a graphical representation of the media content described in each user activity entry . For example user activity entry A describes a user listening to a song. In this example media content graphics may be album cover art of the album that includes the particular version of the song that listened to by the user. If no cover art is associated with the song or is otherwise unavailable media content graphics may be a generic icon that may be used for any music media content. In another example user activity entry B includes a user 1 ing a software application. In this example media content graphics may be a graphical icon associated with the application. If no graphical icon is associated with the application or if the graphical icon is unavailable media content graphics may be a generic icon that represents any media content that is a software application. Similarly if the media content described in a user activity entry is a book the media content graphics may be cover art for the book if available or a generic icon that may be used for any book.

User activity entries may also include heart button and play button . Heart button may enable a user to 1 like or otherwise indicate approval of the respective user activity entry . Play button may be included in user activity entries when user activity entries describe media content that may be played for a user such as an audio and or video file. In some examples a limited preview of the song book video or other media content may be played for a user upon activating play button . In some example such as when the media content described in the user activity entry is an application play button may not be included. Alternatively when the media content described in the user activity entry is an application play button may be included but may redirect the user to a web page or other source for information about the application.

User activity server may receive user association information . User association information may define associational relationships between users in a social network. For example a user may define an associational relationship between the user and one or more other users. Such an associational relationship may be referred to as a friend in some social networks. As one example server system may obtain e.g. via user activity server user association information from client devices . For example user of client device may select e.g. via user activity module media application or other suitable application one or more other users with which to form an associational relationship. Users may be identified and distinguished from each other within a social network by respective user identifiers for example.

User association information may be sent by client devices to server system . For example user activity module may send user association information to server system or may send an indication of a location where the user association information may be obtained by server system . Server system may receive the user association information from client devices and store the user association information in user association information data repository . For example user association information data repository may comprise a relational database where for each user a number of other users having an associational relationship with that user are identified.

In at least some implementations a user may import user association information from a pre existing social network. For example user activity module may comprise or support an application programming interface by which user association information may be obtained from pre existing third party social networks such as Facebook Twitter MySpace iTunes Ping etc. for a given user.

User activity server may also received and or generate user activity information responsive to user activity . In at least some implementations user activity information may be generated by a user activity module such as previously described with respect to user activity module and user activity server . User activity information may be generated in a manner that is transparent to the user as the user interacts with media content via a media application.

User activity may refer to a user playing viewing purchasing organizing commenting or otherwise interacting with media content for example via a media application. For example user of client device may operate media application to play view purchase organize comment on or otherwise interact with media content. Media content may reside locally at client device or may reside at a remote data store such as within server system . Organizing media content may include grouping media content e.g. creating or modifying playlists for example. Commenting on media content may include for example tagging rating or associating commentary with media content.

In at least some implementations user activity module may generate user activity information responsive to user activity with media application . In at least some implementations user activity information may comprise one or more of 1 a user identifier e.g. user name identification code etc. that identifies a user that performed the user activity 2 a media content identifier e.g. artist name content title identification code etc. that identifies a media content item associated with the user activity 3 an action identifier that identifies one or more actions e.g. play view purchase organize comment etc. of the user activity performed with respect to the media content item 4 a time identifier that identifies a time at which the one or more actions were performed 5 a media application identifier that identifies a type of media application e.g. iTunes Zune etc. utilized to perform the one or more actions and 6 other suitable information.

Server system may receive user activity information from any number of clients. Server system may store user activity information received from clients in user activity data repository . User activity server may obtain user activity information received from clients and may process the user activity information. For example user activity server may obtain a user identifier from the user activity information received from a client and may identify other users having an associational relationship with the user identified by the user identifier based on user association information for the user. User activity server may direct user activity information or portion thereof to other network resources for publication to other users.

User activity server may publish user activity information based on the received user association information . As one example server system may send user activity information or select portions thereof to one or more network resources for publication to other users having an associational relationship with a user from which the user activity information originated. In this way a user having an associational relationship with another user may obtain notification of the user s activity with media content via a media application.

Publishing user activity information may include presenting one or more of 1 the user identifier or representation thereof 2 the media content identifier or representation thereof 3 the action identifier or representation thereof 4 the time identifier or representation thereof 5 the media application identifier or representation thereof 6 other suitable information. In at least some implementations user activity server and or user activity module may comprise an API for enabling user activity information to be obtained by pre existing social network platforms such as for example Facebook Twitter MySpace iTunes Ping etc.

The techniques described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Various features described as modules units or components may be implemented together in an integrated logic device or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices or other hardware devices. In some cases various features of electronic circuitry may be implemented as one or more integrated circuit devices such as an integrated circuit chip or chipset.

If implemented in hardware this disclosure may be directed to an apparatus such a processor or an integrated circuit device such as an integrated circuit chip or chipset. Alternatively or additionally if implemented in software or firmware the techniques may be realized at least in part by a computer readable data storage medium comprising instructions that when executed cause a processor to perform one or more of the methods described above. For example the computer readable data storage medium may store such instructions for execution by a processor.

A computer readable medium may form part of a computer program product which may include packaging materials. A computer readable medium may comprise a computer data storage medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory magnetic or optical data storage media and the like. In some examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

In some examples the computer readable storage media may comprise non transitory media. The term non transitory may indicate that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache .

The code or instructions may be software and or firmware executed by processing circuitry including one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other structure suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects functionality described in this disclosure may be provided within software modules or hardware modules.

Various embodiments have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

