---

title: Multi-panel user interface
abstract: A multi-panel user interface includes one-tap access of a shopping-related function from a collapsed panel in an expandable panel user shopping interface without requiring expanding the collapsed panel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09064281&OS=09064281&RS=09064281
owner: MasterCard Mobile Transactions Solutions, Inc.
number: 09064281
owner_city: Purchase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130225
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 654 124 filed Jun. 1 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 651 028 filed Oct. 12 2012. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 651 028 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application 61 546 084 filed Oct. 12 2011 and U.S. provisional patent application 61 619 751 filed Apr. 3 2012.

This application is related to the following U.S. patent applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 539 024 filed Oct. 5 2006 entitled Transactional Services presently pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 931 872 filed Oct. 31 2007 entitled System and methods for servicing electronic transactions presently pending and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 284 676 filed Oct. 31 2002 entitled System and methods for servicing electronic transactions also presently are pending.

This application is related to the following U.S. patents each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Pat. No. 6 769 607 filed Jun. 6 2000 entitled Point of sale and display adapter for electronic transaction device U.S. Pat. No. 6 705 520 filed Nov. 15 1999 entitled Point of sale adapter for electronic transaction device U.S. Pat. No. 5 590 038 filed Jun. 20 1994 entitled Universal electronic transaction card including receipt storage and system and methods of conducting electronic transactions U.S. Pat. No. 5 884 271 filed Sep. 6 1996 entitled Device system and methods of conducting paperless transactions device U.S. Pat. No. 6 925 439 filed Mar. 10 1999 entitled Device system and methods of conducting paperless transactions U.S. Pat. No. 7 308 426 filed Aug. 11 1999 entitled System and methods for servicing electronic transactions and U.S. Pat. No. 7 366 990 filed Jan. 19 2001 entitled Method and system for managing user activities and information using a customized computer interface .

The methods and systems described herein generally relate to electronic display based user interface functionality and particularly relate to accessing shopping related functions through a multi panel shopping user interface.

Multi panel user interfaces typically provide access to panel related functions by selecting a collapsed panel to expose such functions in an expanded view of the selected panel. However many such functions need not require expanding a collapsed panel to properly function yet due to user interface limitations such functions are neither accessible nor operational without first being exposed in an expanded panel.

As described and depicted in figures herein methods and systems of a user interface as may include an active content item e.g. an icon and the like disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel collapsible panel user interface on a mobile device. The collapsible panel user interface may have a plurality of collapsed panels and an expanded panel. An active content item on the collapsed panel can be selected e.g. tapped by the user on the personal mobile device touch screen and a shopping related function may be executed without causing the collapsed panel to expand. This capability may allow the collapsed panel to remain collapsed while a program function that is accessed by the icon of the collapsed panel executes e.g. in the background . The icon may cause functions such as accessing a mobile wallet to perform a purchase transaction and the like. Another function that may be accessed from a collapsed panel could be a camera function that may cause a display of an item in the field of view of the camera such as for scanning a barcode to identify products determine its purchase price and the like. Each of the collapsed panels or only one of the collapsed panels or any number of the collapsed panels may display active content such as one or more active content icons.

In addition to the multi panel collapsible panel user interface methods and systems described herein combinations of such functionality with other functionality described herein and in related patent applications referenced and incorporated herein may provide additional functionality and capability. In particular the active content item based multi panel collapsible panel user interface may be combined with mobile wallet capabilities and other ecosystem capabilities described herein and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 651 028 the entirety of which is herein incorporated. Such combinations may facilitate access to and execution of mobile wallet and or eco system functionality via an active content item disposed on a collapsed panel without requiring expanding the collapsed panel. In addition the active content item based multi panel collapsible panel user interface may be combined with various proximity related network access granting functionality as described in U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 654 124. Such combinations may facilitate conducting transactions over a wireless network e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi and the like via an active content item that is disposed on a collapsed panel without requiring expanding the panel wherein access to the network is achieved via a proximity action such as near field communication tap and pair recognition of a multi dimensional code e.g. viewing a QR code with a camera of a personal mobile device and the like.

In addition to a multi panel user interface with predefined icons icons may be dynamically disposed on collapsed panels based on processing of a shopping related function. This capability may further enhance the utility of the multi panel based user interface that ensures that collapsed panels remain collapsed when certain shopping functions that are accessed through icons disposed on the collapsed panels do not require expanding the panel. Some shopping related functions may require additional user input that may be provided via a dynamically placed icon.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes one tap access of a shopping related function from a collapsed panel in an expandable panel user shopping interface without requiring expanding the collapsed panel.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method of accessing one of a plurality of shopping related functions via a multi panel user interface including displaying a single expanded panel of a multi panel user shopping interface on an electronic display of a computing device displaying a plurality of collapsed panels of the multi panel user shopping interface on the electronic display wherein at least one of the plurality of collapsed panels includes an icon to facilitate performing a shopping related function and receiving an indication of a user selection of the icon and in response thereto determining with the computing device a shopping related function from the plurality of shopping related functions based on an association of the icon and the shopping related function and causing execution of program steps by the computing device that perform the determined shopping related function while permitting the collapsed panel that includes the icon to remain collapsed.

This method further including permitting the single expanded panel to remain expanded and the plurality of collapsed panels to remain collapsed during the execution of the program steps. In the method the indication of a user selection of the icon comprises an indication that the user selected the icon by single tapping the icon in a touch sensitive electronic display. In this method the at least one of the plurality of collapsed panels includes a plurality of icons to facilitate accessing different shopping related functions without requiring expansion of the collapsed panel.

In the method the program steps are adapted to cause a display generated by the shopping related function to supplant a portion of the multi panel user shopping interface on the electronic display. In this method the supplanted portion is at least one of the single expanded the single expanded panel and a portion of the plurality of collapsed panels and

In the method the computing device is a mobile user device. Also in the method the user shopping interface further comprises an icon disposed on single expanded panel for accessing a shopping related function. Further in the method at least two of the plurality of collapsed panels include at least one icon for facilitating one tap access to distinct shopping related functions. Alternatively in the method the plurality of shopping related functions includes one or more of accessing vouchers accessing shopping lists performing payments presenting loyalty cards and redeeming coupons. In this method determining a shopping related function includes using data associated with the icon to access a dataset of shopping related functions.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a user shopping interface that provides access to a plurality of shopping related functions via active icons disposed on a collapsed panel of the user shopping interface without requiring expanding the panel.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a personal mobile electronic device comprising a display on which a user shopping interface configured to provide access to a plurality of shopping related functions is presented wherein the user shopping interface comprises one or more collapsed panels and

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a multi panel user shopping interface comprising at least one expanded panel and a plurality of collapsed panels that provides access to one of a plurality of shopping related functions via active icons disposed on a portion of the plurality of collapsed panels without requiring expanding any of the plurality of collapsed panels.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a multi panel user interface including a single expanded panel disposed on an electronic display of a computing device a plurality of collapsed panels disposed substantially aligned with the single expanded panel on the electronic display wherein a first region of the plurality of collapsed panels is adapted to cause a collapsed panel to expand and the expanded panel to collapse in response to a user selection of the first region an icon disposed on one of the collapsed panels wherein the icon is associated with a shopping related function a data set of shopping related functions that facilitates associating the icon with a shopping related function and a set of computer instructions for causing the computing device to execute a shopping related function that is associated with the icon without causing the one of the collapsed panels to expand in response to a user selection of the icon.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes one tap purchasing of adding to a shopping cart an item that is in proximity to a portable shopping device via active content disposed on a collapsed panel of a stacked expandable panel user shopping interface.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method including receiving an indication of a user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface that is displayed on an electronic display of a computing device activating a camera function of the computing device without requiring the collapsed panel to be expanded presenting an image of a field of view of the camera in a portion of the electronic display analyzing with the computing device the image to determine a data value associated with a visual code detected in the image and associating a purchasable product with the visual code transmitting at least the data value over a network to a server receiving from the server in response a purchase price for the purchasable product and presenting at least the purchase price of the purchasable product in the portion of the electronic display. This method may further include presenting a purchase action button in the portion of the electronic display along with the purchase price. In this method the portion of the electronic display comprises an expanded panel of the multi panel user interface. In this method activating a camera function is based on an association of the icon with a shopping function that accesses a camera function of the computing device. Alternatively in this method the multi panel user interface comprises a single expanded panel and a plurality of collapsed panels. This method may further include presenting an icon in the collapsed panel on the electronic display for facilitating purchasing the purchasable product such as by adding the product to a virtual shopping cart without requiring the collapsed panel to expand.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes performing an electronic transaction via an electronic wallet function of a mobile device in response to user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user shopping interface without expanding the collapsed panel.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method comprising receiving an indication of a user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface that is displayed on an electronic display of a personal mobile device determining an action type associated with the selected icon via a collapsible panel interface application executing on the mobile device determining with the mobile device a shopping related function associated with the selected icon by accessing a data table that cross references icons with shopping related functions forwarding the action type to a mobile transaction processing platform of the mobile device wherein a mobile transaction process communicates via an application programming interface layer with a wallet access widget to access a mobile wallet payment resource of the mobile device and performing the shopping related function via the mobile transaction processing platform with a mobile wallet payment resource determined based on the action type wherein the collapsed panel remains collapsed through performance of the shopping related function. In this method performing the shopping related function includes executing a wallet companion applet on the mobile device for accessing the payment resource of the mobile wallet.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a mobile shopping facility that includes a mobile wallet capability operable on a mobile device and a plurality of collapsed panels depicted in a shopping interface of the mobile device wherein at least one of the plurality of collapsed panels includes a shopping related function icon that is accessible to a user of the mobile device while the at least one panel is collapsed and that when activated causes the shopping related function to interact with the mobile wallet capability to facilitate performing the shopping related function while the at least one of the plurality of collapsed panels remains collapsed.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a system includes an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface that is displayed on an electronic display of a personal mobile device wherein the collapsed panel remains collapsed in response to a user selection of the icon an action type association facility for determining an action type for a selected icon by forwarding selected icon information to the association facility executing on the mobile device a data table that facilitates cross referencing an icon with a shopping related function a mobile transaction processing platform of the mobile device wherein a mobile transaction process communicates via an application programming interface layer with a wallet access widget to access a mobile wallet payment resource of the mobile device and a collapsible panel interface application for receiving an indication of a selected icon determining the shopping related function and forwarding the action type and shopping related function information to the mobile transaction processing platform to perform the shopping related function with a mobile wallet payment resource determined based on the action type wherein the collapsed panel remains collapsed through performance of the shopping related function.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a mobile device user interface of a multi tiered secure electronic transaction ecosystem platform comprising active content on at least one of a plurality of collapsed panels the active content for performing personalized secure transactions via a mobile wallet capability of the mobile device while a panel on which the active content is disposed remains collapsed

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a system including an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface that is displayed on an electronic display of a personal mobile device wherein the collapsed panel remains collapsed in response to a user selection of the icon an ecosystem for performing secure personalized transactions between the mobile device and an ecosystem participant via a mobile transaction process server a mobile transaction processing platform of the mobile device wherein the mobile transaction processing platform facilitates performing the secure personalized transactions over the ecosystem and a collapsible panel interface application for receiving an indication of a selected icon determining an electronic transaction associated with the icon and forwarding information regarding the determined electronic transaction to the mobile transaction processing platform to conduct the transaction over the ecosystem wherein the collapsed panel remains collapsed throughout conducting the transaction over the ecosystem.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a multi panel based user shopping interface that facilitates performing shopping related functions over a wireless network to which access is acquired via a tap and pair NFC function of a mobile device operating the user shopping interface wherein the user shopping interface includes at least one active content item disposed on a collapsed panel of the multi panel based user shopping interface the active content for causing a shopping related function to be performed via the mobile device over the network while the collapsed panel remains collapsed.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method of network based electronic transaction processing via a multi panel based user shopping interface including receiving an indication of a user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface displayed on an electronic display of a mobile device wherein the mobile device is configured to access a wireless network based on network configuration information received by the device during a near field communication transaction conducted with the device determining with the mobile device a shopping related function associated with the selected icon by accessing a data table that cross references icons with shopping related functions and performing the shopping related function by communicating over the wireless network wherein the mobile device display depicts the panel on which the icon is disposed as collapsed throughout the performance of the shopping related function.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a multi panel based user shopping interface that facilitates performing shopping related functions over a wireless network to which access is acquired via a visual code scan operation of a mobile device operating the user shopping interface wherein the user shopping interface includes at least one active content item disposed on a collapsed panel of the multi panel based user shopping interface the active content for causing a shopping related function to be performed via the mobile device over the network while the collapsed panel remains collapsed.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method of network based electronic transaction processing via a multi panel based user shopping interface including receiving an indication of a user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface displayed on an electronic display of a mobile device wherein the mobile device is configured to access a wireless network based on network configuration information derived by the device from a visual code captured by a camera function of the mobile device determining with the mobile device a shopping related function associated with the selected icon by accessing a data table that cross references icons with shopping related functions and performing the shopping related function by communicating over the wireless network wherein the mobile device display depicts the panel on which the icon is disposed as collapsed throughout the performance of the shopping related function.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a multi panel based user shopping interface that facilitates performing shopping related functions over a wireless network to which access is acquired via a tap and pair NFC function of a mobile device operating the user shopping interface wherein the user shopping interface includes at least one active content item disposed on a collapsed panel of the multi panel based user shopping interface the active content for causing a shopping related function to be configured to be performed via the mobile device over the network while the collapsed panel remains collapsed.

A The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method of network based electronic transaction processing via a multi panel based user shopping interface including receiving an indication of a user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface displayed on an electronic display of a mobile device wherein the mobile device is configured to access a wireless network based on network configuration information received by the device during a near field communication transaction conducted with the device determining with the mobile device a shopping related function associated with the selected icon by accessing a data table that cross references icons with shopping related functions and configuring the shopping related function to communicate over the wireless network wherein the mobile device display depicts the panel on which the icon is disposed as collapsed throughout the performance of the shopping related function.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a mobile device based multi panel user shopping interface that includes at least one active content item disposed on a collapsed panel of the multi panel based user shopping interface the active content item for confirming access to a wireless network for which the mobile device configured as a result of a tap and pair nfc action while the collapsed panel remains collapsed.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method of network based electronic transaction processing via a multi panel based user shopping interface including receiving an indication of a user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface displayed on an electronic display of a mobile device wherein the mobile device has received an offer to access a wireless network via a near field communication transaction conducted with the device determining with the mobile device a shopping related function associated with the selected icon by accessing a data table that cross references icons with shopping related functions wherein the determined shopping related function facilitates acceptance of the offer to access a wireless network and configuring the mobile device to access the wireless network by performing the shopping related function wherein the mobile device display depicts the panel on which the icon is disposed as collapsed throughout the performance of the shopping related function.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a mobile device based multi panel user shopping interface that includes at least one active content item disposed on a collapsed panel of the multi panel based user shopping interface the active content item for conducting an electronic transaction over a wireless network while the collapsed panel remains collapsed wherein the mobile device is configured to conduct the electronic transaction via the wireless network as a result of a tap and pair NFC action.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method of network based electronic transaction processing via a multi panel based user shopping interface including receiving an indication of a user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface displayed on an electronic display of a mobile device wherein the mobile device is configured to access a wireless network based on network configuration information received by the device during a near field communication transaction conducted with the device determining with the mobile device an electronic transaction associated with the selected icon by accessing a data table that cross references icons with electronic transactions and conducting the electronic transaction by communicating over the wireless network wherein the mobile device display depicts the panel on which the icon is disposed as collapsed throughout the performance of the shopping related function.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a mobile device based multi panel user shopping interface that includes at least one active content item disposed on a collapsed panel of the multi panel based user shopping interface the active content item for conducting an electronic transaction over a wireless network while the collapsed panel remains collapsed wherein the mobile device is configured to conduct the electronic transaction via the wireless network as a result of a visual code scan and pair action performed by the mobile device.

The methods and systems of a multi panel user interface described herein includes a method of network based electronic transaction processing via a multi panel based user shopping interface including receiving an indication of a user selection of an icon disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface displayed on an electronic display of a mobile device wherein the mobile device is configured to access a wireless network based on network configuration information derived by the device from a visual code captured by a camera function of the mobile device determining with the mobile device an electronic transaction associated with the selected icon by accessing a data table that cross references icons with electronic transactions and conducting the electronic transaction by communicating over the wireless network wherein the mobile device display depicts the panel on which the icon is disposed as collapsed throughout the performance of the shopping related function.

These and other systems methods objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment and the drawings. All documents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.

As depicted in the embodiment of the plurality of displays collectively referred herein to as the display of the multi panel shopping interface may be configured to include an expanded panel and a collapsed panel so that the user may access these panels and to perform one or more shopping related functions without requiring to expand the collapsed panel . Alternatively the shopping interface may include a single expanded panel and a plurality of collapsed panels similar to the collapsed panel . In an example one or more of the shopping related functions may be accessible from a single collapsed panel and if more than one collapsed panel is present different shopping related functions may be accessible from different collapsed panels. However a single shopping related function may be accessible from more than one collapsed panel. In another example different collapsed panels may be associated with different shopping related functions such that each of the collapsed panels is associated with at least one shopping related function and adapted to activate and perform the respective shopping related function.

In addition the collapsed panel may be configured to include one or more active content items such as an icon that may be accessed by the user to perform a shopping related function. A user may tap or select the icon to activate and or perform a shopping related function associated with the active content item represented by the icon . A user may access the panels or the icons thereof using one or more input devices such as a keyboard mouse trackball or track pad touch screen voice command recognition module or any other such user input device.

Referring to the method at step a user input such as a tap may be received in a collapsed panel of the shopping interface. The user input may be received using any of the aforementioned user input devices elsewhere mentioned or any other device. For example the user may select the expanded panel the collapsed panel or the icon of the collapsed panel . Each such selection may perform a different operation such as for providing access to a shopping related function. During this step the display of the shopping interface may be presented to the user so that the user may select any of the aforementioned portions of the shopping interface using the user input devices.

At step a determination is made as to whether the icon of the collapsed panel is selected by the user. The method may proceed to step if it is determined that the icon is not tapped by the user. At step the expanded panel is collapsed and the selected collapsed panel is expanded. For example the display of the mobile device may change from display to a display thereby indicating the previously expanded panel is now collapsed and the previously collapsed panel is now expanded. The method may be configured to expand the collapsed panel to facilitate exploring the content of the collapsed panel such as shopping related functions that may not be visible or accessible in the collapsed state.

The method may proceed to step if it is determined that the icon is selected by the user in step . Subsequently at step content associated with the icon of the collapsed panel is activated. An activation of the content associated with the icon may initiate execution of a shopping related function. For example in a retail environment when the user taps or selects the icon of the collapsed panel a purchase action may be executed without requiring expanding collapsed panel . On selection of the icon in the collapsed panel the display may be presented to the user. The display may continue to indicate that the user may still access content on the expanded panel or perform a shopping operation associated with the icon of the collapsed panel without changing the collapsed panel to an expanded state. In other words the display that may be presented to the user in response to a user selection of the icon of the collapsed panel may appear to be identical to or at least similar to the display

At step a determination is made as to whether the shopping related function executed in response to a user selecting icon of the collapsed panel may need to use a portion of the mobile device display and thereby need to supplant one or more panels such as the expanded panel of the shopping interface. The method may proceed to step if it is determined that supplanting one or more panels of the shopping interface is required. That is to say a shopping related function accessed through the icon of the collapsed panel may require further intervention from the user or may simply require presenting displayable content to the user. Otherwise the method may proceed to step if it is determined that supplanting one or more panels is not required. At step the one or more panels may be supplanted to display active content associated with a selected shopping function. For example the display that indicates that at least the expanded panel is supplanted to display active content associated with the selected shopping function. The display indicates the collapsed panel in the original collapsed state with icon disposed therein may still be visible to the user. Alternatively the selected shopping related function may require use of a greater portion of the mobile device display e.g. a full screen mode of the mobile device and as a result even the collapsed panel of the shopping interface may be supplanted. In another example only a portion of the expanded panel may be used by the selected shopping related function.

The method may then proceed to step and may be configured to include performing the shopping relation function accessed through the icon of the collapsed panel . While performing the shopping related function accessed through the icon of the collapsed panel the display may be presented to the user indicating that the expanded panel and the collapsed panel may still be in the original state i.e. in the expanded state and the collapsed state respectively. In an example the user may be watching a video of a specific product or a service from a specific seller in the expanded panel and may decide to purchase an energy drink that can be accessed from the icon of the collapsed panel of the shopping interface. The user may select the icon such as by tapping on the icon and a process of purchasing the energy drink may be initiated without changing the state of the panels and . As a result the user may watch the video without any interruption in the expanded panel and may be able to purchase the energy drink at the same time without expanding the collapsed panel of the shopping interface.

The present methods described herein facilitate the user to perform shopping related functions associated with a specific collapsed panel without expanding the collapsed panel and resulting in the development of a user friendly interface that may allow the user to perform multiple shopping related functions across the multiple panels of the interface. For example the user may have an access to a payment panel through which payments may be made to the authorized sellers and to a shop panel through which the user may add products into his her shopping cart without requiring a need to expand the collapsed panels. Further the shopping related functions may include without limitation accessing and using shopping vouchers managing shopping lists managing a shopping cart a payment transaction managing a loyalty card related services using a discount coupon performing a mobile recharge function accepting an offer redeeming a coupon rejecting an offer requesting a price opening a credit account closing a credit account requesting an increase in credit limit making a fund transfer or any other such function that may enable the user to perform a transaction or take a shopping related action. Other functions accessible through an active content item without requiring expansion of a collapsed panel may include accepting an offer of network credentials requesting access to a wireless network visually capturing a multi dimensional code expanding a collapsed panel granting a request for a shopping related function to gain access to the device display screen and the like.

As illustrated in the collapsed panel may be configured to include active content items such as an icon and an icon the collapsed panel may be configured to include active content items such as an icon and and the collapsed panel may be configured to include an active content item such as an icon . Each of the one or more icons may be configured to provide access to one or more shopping related functions. The multi panel shopping interface may allow the user to select at least one of the icons disposed on these collapsed panels. For example the user may select at least one icon such as by providing a single tap on the active icon or by providing a single touch or click on the active icon. On selection of the at least one icon of a particular collapsed panel a shopping related function corresponding to the selected icon may be performed without expanding the particular collapsed panel. That is to say the particular panel of the collapsed panel may remain collapsed and the shopping related function may be performed.

The shopping related functions associated with the active icons of the collapsed panels may include services or transactions such as mobile commerce m commerce mobile wallet purchase transactions coupon redemption rewards and loyalty card related transactions targeted advertisement related transactions trading related functions product ordering travel services or any other such service. For example the collapsed panel may be configured to provide shopping related functions via the active icons and . In an example the active icon may be configured as an inspection icon that may be represented by an image of a magnifying glass. The inspection icon may be used to access search related shopping functions. The search related functions may include but not limited to identifying product related details such as product name product category product price product availability product order status or any other such function. When the user selects the icon the search function may be performed in the background without an expansion of the collapsed panel . The user may access the functions associated with the expanded panel or other active content items disposed on the collapsed panels such as the collapsed panel the collapsed panel and the collapsed panel .

The collapsed panel may be configured to include shopping related functions that may require activating the camera of the mobile device. For example the active icon on the collapsed panel may be used to access the camera function. The camera function may include accessing a camera to capture an image for performing the shopping related functions. The image capture may be used to perform for example a scanning function that may be used for scanning a barcode or other visual code e.g. 2D code QR code and the like associated with a product. For example a user may be accessing the multi panel shopping interface from his her mobile phone in a retail store. The user may come across a product and may want to make a purchase decision based on the pricing information of the product. The user may bring the mobile phone within the field of view of the product and select the active icon . The selection of the icon may activate the mobile phone camera to read the product visual code and perform product identification functions while the collapsed panel may remain in a collapsed state. Once the product identification is complete the multi panel shopping interface may display the product information such as the product price to the user. The user may then make a purchase decision as to whether to purchase the product or not. In an example if the user decides to purchase the product a collapsed panel on the multi panel shopping interface may be configured to provide payment related functionality to the user via the one or more active icons disposed on the same collapsed panel or any other collapsed panels from the plurality of collapsed panels.

Further the active content items disposed on the collapsed panel may be configured to activate payment related shopping functions on the multi panel shopping interface . The collapsed panel may include the active icon for accessing the payment function and for accessing the camera function. In an example the user may access the camera function as discussed previously to identify product details. Further the user may access the payment function by selecting the active icon for example when the user decides to make a purchase decision for the product. In an example the active icon may be represented as a credit card icon to represent that the icon may be used for making a payment through a credit card. When the user selects the active icon a payment transaction may be initiated. In an example the user may scan the product using the camera function identify the price of the product and then select the payment icon . As a result of selecting an amount equivalent to the product price may be deducted from the user s banking account and the product may then be acquired by the user. All these transactions may be operated so that the user may continue to perform other shopping related functions on the multi panel shopping interface and the collapsed panel may remain in its collapsed state. Additionally the collapsed panel may be expanded if the active icon or the may need any user intervention to complete the transaction corresponding to the shopping related functions in some examples. The collapsed panel may supplant a portion or an entirety of other panels such as the expanded panel and or other collapsed panels in such cases.

In addition the multi panel shopping interface may allow the user to access other shopping related functions such as by accessing the collapsed panel . The active icon disposed on the collapsed panel may be accessed to perform more functions such as managing a shopping cart managing financial resources such as bank accounts for the user banking transactions accessing buyer or seller information for the products or services in a current geographical region of the user mobile device management accessing additional details about the product tagging or marking products sharing data or any other such service that may need to perform a transaction without changing the state of the collapsed panel from a collapsed state to an expanded state.

The multi panel shopping interface as described herein may allow the user to access the active icons from the at least one collapsed panel without expanding of the collapsed panel. As discussed the user may access the active icon to access the information associated with a first product and the active icon to perform the payment transaction of a second product. The multi panel shopping interface allows the user to perform these functions associated with the active icons and without expanding the corresponding collapsed panels such as the collapsed panel and collapsed panel . These functions continue to be executed without any further user intervention. As a result the multi panel shopping interface enables the user to execute multiple shopping related functions in a relatively user friendly manner where the user may not be interrupted while performing the shopping related functions associated with the expanded panel of the multi panel shopping interface .

The mobile device may be configured to operate in proximity of a shopping item such as a product labeled with a product identification code for example when the user may be visiting a retail store. The user may then tap the active icon which may be configured to operate as a scan code icon to perform a shopping action. The scan code icon may be configured to activate a camera of the mobile device to perform a plurality of scans including but not limited to a 2D scan function a barcode reading function a visual code reading function to identify the shopping item and the like. The scan code function may be configured to present the display captured scan code to the user on the display of the mobile device. Screen image depicts an image being displayed on the mobile device in response to an activation of the scan code function of the mobile device due to the single tap of the icon

In an example the shopping action may include one of the purchasing of the item and adding the item to a shopping cart in response to detecting the scan code of the shopping item. The display illustrates an example of enabling a user of the mobile device to add an item to the shopping cart upon detection of the scan code of the shopping item. The display of the mobile device may provide an alert message to confirm or reject the selection of the shopping item. In an example the alert message may be adapted to receive a confirmation from the user regarding whether the shopping item may be added to the shopping cart. In an example the shopping action may need an entire display of the mobile device such as to assist the user while execution of the one or more shopping functions. Alternatively the shopping action may be configured to execute while the collapsed panel remains collapsed during the shopping action.

At step the camera of the mobile device may be activated to execute the shopping related function associated with the active content item such as the icon of the collapsed panel in response to the detection of the tap on the icon of the collapsed panel . In an example the camera of the mobile device may be configured to capture an image of an object that may be in the proximity of the mobile device. For example the camera may be configured to capture an image such as a visual code displayed on a label attached to a shopping item in a retail store. The visual code image can be a bar code or any other identification code. In another example the camera may be configured to scan the image. Once the camera is activated the method may include displaying the image acquired by the camera on the display of the interface presented on the mobile device at step . In an example the image may require to be displayed on the entire display space of the mobile device. In this scenario the expanded panel and the one or more collapsed panels of the multi panel shopping interface may be supplanted by the camera image. In another example the camera image may require only a portion of the display space of the mobile device. In this example one or more collapsed panels may remain visible on the display along with the camera image and only the expanded panel may be supplanted to present and display the image.

At the camera image is analyzed to identify the visual code that may be associated with the image. In an example the visual code may include a barcode a 2D code a Quick Response QR code or any other similar identification mark. At step item or product details such as for example price and other items details associated with the shopping item may be determined using the information as retrieved from the identification of the visual code. The method then may be configured to include determining other attributes such as manufacture date expiry date if any shipment date maintenance date insurance details or any other such details of the shopping item using the visual code associated with the shopping item. In an example the details regarding the shopping item may be presented on the display of the mobile device. The user of the mobile device may use the presented details to make a purchase decision for the shopping item. At a purchase action button on the mobile device display is presented. The purchase action button may include such as an alert button that the user may click to initiate or reject a purchase transaction for the shopping item.

The client architecture of the mobile device may be configured to provide the multi panel shopping interface to the user. The multi panel shopping interface may be configured to include the at least one expanded panel and a plurality of collapsed panels such as the collapsed panels e.g. the collapsed panel the collapsed panel and the collapsed panel so that the user may access these panels to perform one or more shopping related functions without requiring to expand the collapsed panels. In an example one or more of the shopping related functions may be accessible from a single collapsed panel and if more than one collapsed panels are present different shopping related functions may be accessible from different collapsed panels. However a single shopping related function may be accessible from more than one collapsed panel. Further each collapsed panel may be configured to include the one or more active content items e.g. icons and the like that may be accessed by the user to perform the shopping related functions. A user may tap or select the icons to activate and or perform the shopping related functions associated with the active content item represented by icon .

The client architecture may be configured to include a container based approach to support multi tenant application architecture for providing electronic transaction related services to the users. As illustrated in the client architecture may be configured to include applications such as shopping related applications payment related applications and arrival related application and other applications such as to provide an access to a wide variety of applications to the user to perform the shopping related functions. In an exemplary embodiment of each of the collapsed panels may be configured to be associated with the respective applications such that the user may access these applications to perform the shopping related functions without expanding the collapsed panels. In addition the applications may be configured to interact with a collapsible panel interface so as to access one or more resources of the mobile device to perform the shopping related function as desired by the user. As described later in the description the client architecture may be configured to perform the electronic transaction via the electronic wallet function of the mobile device in response to a user selection of an icon disposed on the collapsed panel of the multi panel shopping interface .

In an example the mobile device may be configured to perform shopping related functions or business specific services using one or more wallet applications such as a wallet . Each form of payment held in the wallet may be accessible by a payment type specific widget application such as a widget app a widget app a widget app and a widget app generically referred to herein as a widget . In an example a plurality of shopping related functions or the business specific service may be distributed among the one or more wallet applications so that one or more wallets may be accessed by an appropriate widget for performing the shopping related function as desired by the user. Further the wallets and the widgets may be installed using the container based approach to provide functionality including business rules adherence wallet and widget application lifecycle management user experience management and other functionality.

In addition the one or more wallets and the widgets may be developed using a Software Development Kit SDK of a mobile transaction platform MTP as described below in and may be supported by a device independent application programming interface API layer a device specific client runtime environment device specific operating system environment s and the like. The device independent API layer may ensure that the wallets or the widgets developed using the SDK may run across all supported devices. The client runtime environment may handle complexity related to application execution transactional security reliability and other business operations that may be initiated on receiving a request from a user. Further these APIs are specifically designed to provide all the support that the developer may need to create rich user experiences as the device independent API layer abstracts the development of the wallets and the widgets from the underlying device specific client runtime environment and operating system environment s . In addition the wallet may define additional APIs for the widget developers that may be specific to the application s context financial retail healthcare government etc. .

The methods and systems described herein may facilitate the user to perform the shopping related function using the wallet of the mobile device without expanding the collapsed panels. As illustrated in the user may select the active content associated with the icon of the collapsed panel to perform a payment transaction request. The user may utilize the screen interface such as a touch screen to select the active content item . The screen interface may provide information associated with the user selection to the payment related application via the collapsible panel interface . On receiving the selection of the active content of the collapsed panel execution of the corresponding payment related application may be initiated. The payment related application may include instructions regarding usage of one or more computing resources e.g. software and or hardware work flows and the other features of the mobile device that may be required to complete the payment transaction request as initiated by the user. As shown in the example embodiment of the payment related application may be configured to route relevant information to the wallet via the client runtime environment and the device independent API layer . Further a particular widget e.g. the widget associated with the payment card may be activated and details of the payment card within the wallet may be accessed to perform the payment related transaction.

On determination of the action type the method may proceed to step where the determined action details may be forwarded to a function of the collapsed panel. For example tapping a purchasing related active content icon may result in the action details being forwarded to a payment related function via a collapsible panel interface function executing on the mobile phone. At a transaction request is made with the wallet of the mobile device to perform the shopping related function. For example the payment related application may identify the type of the wallet that may be required to complete the transaction request. The payment related function may identify at least one wallet that may be required to access the credentials of the users while making a purchasing transaction. At step the transaction request is processed through a widget that is selected based on the form of payment being requested which in turn accesses a portion of a wallet that may be associated with a wallet container. For example the payment related function may be configured to route relevant information to the wallet via the client runtime environment and the device independent API layer as discussed in conjunction with . Further a particular widget e.g. the widget associated with the payment card may be activated and details of the payment card within the wallet may be accessed to perform the payment related transaction. At step the wallet based request is completed. The collapsed panel on which the selected active content icon that is displayed may remain in the collapsed state during tapping and in some examples during the execution of the entire method and thereby allowing the user to continue to access the contents associated with the other panels such as the of the multi panel shopping interface.

The dynamic ecosystem may be used to perform a plurality of shopping related functions that may be accessed by a user accessing the ecosystem via the user handset . The user handset may include a multi panel shopping interface . The multi panel shopping interface may include a plurality of panels including an expanded panel and one or more collapsed panels. The one or more collapsed panels may further include active content items such as one or more icons that may be disposed on the one or more collapsed panels. In an example the active content items may be used by the user for gaining access to the plurality of shopping related functions supported by the dynamic ecosystem . In an example the dynamic ecosystem may be configured for secure personalized transactions via the mobile wallet functions of the user handset . The mobile wallet functions may be accessed for example by selecting the one or more icons on a collapsed panel. The mobile wallet functions may then be executed without requiring the collapsed panel to be expanded. In an example the mobile wallet functions may include secure mobile transactions that may need to be executed in a secure computing environment. For example the mobile wallet functions may include secure mCommerce and mPayment functions. The secure mobile transactions may be enabled by the network provider s system domain that may include the network provider system .

In an example the MTP may be configured to deliver services such as messaging and notification security and authentication over the air OTA provisioning OTA trusted service manager TSM proxy operation client based secure ecosystem container operation wallet and widget management transaction engine operation digital instrument management location and or geo fencing support augmented reality and the like. The MTP may be configured to power a dynamic ecosystem for secure mCommerce and mPayment transactions as described below. The MTP may be set up in the network provider s domain and integrated into the system of the network provider . In an example the enterprise service bus ESB of the network provider may be used for integration. The MTP may be connected to an ecosystem of service and security providers which may include one or more trusted service managers TSMs for example and . The network provider may use the MTP to create a branded mobile application targeting a specific business vertical. In an example the mobile application may be the mobile wallet mWallet for the retail financial domain or a mHealth application for the healthcare vertical. In an example the mobile application may provide a core set of services to a user specific to a domain for which it may have been created. For the purpose of this invention the mobile application may be a wallet assuming a retail domain application.

For example the mobile wallet application may be a shopping related application that may enable a user to pay for products purchased in the retail domain environment. The mobile application can include a collapsed panel for a shop function hereinafter referred to as a shop collapsed panel which may be presented to the user on the display of the user handset . As illustrated this collapsed panel may include a plurality of icons including an icon for a payment function. The user can select an icon for executing the payment function by selecting the payment related icon on the shop collapsed panel. In response to the selection the payment function may be executed while the shop collapsed panel may remain in the collapsed state and need not be expanded. The payment function may allow performing a secure banking transaction over the MTP platform or any other similar transaction.

In an example the mobile wallet application may also facilitate application lifecycle and security standardized user experience and widget management responsibilities. The widget may provide specific business services and complies with the wallet guidelines. The mobile application may be downloaded onto the user handset . The ecosystem of services may be configured to authenticate any transaction done over the handset . In an example the user handset may be used at the merchant terminal for making payment for one or more products using the payment function of the mobile application through a collapsed panel without requiring to expanding it. The merchant terminal may be configured to receive communication from the ecosystem cloud regarding the widget authentication of the user handset widget when used in vicinity of the merchant terminal for effecting a transaction. The communication regarding authentication may be received in response to an activation of the payment related icon on the shop collapsed panel of the user handset .

In an example individual independent service providers may use the MTP SDK to build widgets that may be loaded into the wallet. These widgets may provide incremental functionality that may enhance the overall appeal of the mobile application. The wallet and the widgets may provide the users with OTA value added services VAS and proximity NFC services. The container or MTP mClient runtime may provide the wallet and the widgets a secure runtime environment and the services to communicate OTA with the server OTA services and also communicate with the secure element to manage payment and non payment applets for proximity NFC transactions. The multi panel shopping interface may facilitate the users in performing the proximity NFC transactions. For example the user may be able to make a payment for the NFC transaction by accessing a payment icon from a collapsed panel such as a pay collapsed panel. The payment icon may activate payment related functions such as initiating contact with the user s TSMs such as the bank ecosystem

In an example the widgets may have an associated applet running in the secure element. In an example the widgets may not have an associated applet running in the secure element. In an example the service providers may only choose to provide only OTA services. In an example the MTP and TSMs may collaborate together to provide the entire NFC experience. In an example the wallet and the widget including soft card provisioning setup and management may be handled by the MTP while applet issuance and personalization may be done by the TSM. In an example the network provider may ensure that the NFC readers at merchant locations may be equipped to handle the proximity protocols that may be used by the various applets that may have been loaded into the phone s SE. These readers may then process the transaction through an acquiring network that may switch the transaction to the appropriate ecosystem service provider in the cloud. The wallet and or the widget may communicate with the ecosystem cloud to determine service status and various other VAS requirements like balance transaction history stored value top up and the like.

In exemplary and non limiting embodiments the MTP may be configured for providing the wallet the widget and manage the transaction along with all the relevant business services that may be associated with delivering wallets to a universe of diverse mobile environments. In exemplary and non limiting embodiments the MTP may be configured for providing an improved SDK that may to help build a wallet and ecosystem of service providers that may create widgets with elaborate feature sets without having to worry about handset fragmentation. In exemplary and non limiting embodiments the MTP may be configured for establishing connectors with various ecosystems to deliver a dynamic user experience and diverse set of services to the end user that may be accessed irrespective of time and geographical location.

The MTP may be deployed for customers from various countries and may be tailored to specific country requirements. For example the MTP may be used in The United States of America USA Japan China India Singapore Mexico and Bolivia for a variety of mCommerce and mPayments services. In exemplary and non limiting embodiments the MTP may be configured for providing banking services ticketing services and payment services using one or more collapsed panels on the multi panel shopping interface of the user handset . In an example the services provided by the MTP may be accessed by selecting a plurality of icons on a single or more than one collapsed panel. In an example the services provided by the MTP may be accessed by selecting at least one icon on each of a plurality of collapsed panels. The different services provided by the MTP may be accessed at the same time and may be executed in the background without requiring any or all of the collapsed panels of the user handset to be expanded.

In exemplary and non limiting embodiments the MTP may be deployed in a cloud and may be configured to aggregate various disparate service providers to effectively provide end users with a suite of personalized secure transactional services. In an example the network providers may deploy the enabling layer of the MTP for example the wallet and the transaction management along with infrastructure components which may be agnostic to the services and channels. The enabling layer of the MTP may be configured to support an ecosystem of service providers for example banks merchants healthcare providers and the like. The enabling layer of the MTP may be configured to support all third party developers that may use the SDK to build their individual personalized applications for example secure transaction applications.

In an example the shopping related functions may be accessed via the collapsed panels presented on the display of the mobile device over a long range wireless network by using the wireless network hub . In other examples other communication channels may be used to access the shopping related functions. For example the access to the wireless network may be provided via a Bluetooth application on the mobile device . The access to the wireless network may be provided via a wireless application of the mobile device . In some examples the multi panel shopping interface may gain access to the wireless network through a network information exchange Near Field Communication NFC wireless transaction.

The mobile device may acquire access to network based transaction authentication information through a tap and pair NFC function of the mobile device . Such a tap and pair NFC function may be accessible via and or incorporated into the shopping interface . NFC based network authentication may be facilitated by any of the active content items such as the icons and the like while the respective collapsed panels and may remain collapsed. For example the active content item may be configured to facilitate use of network authentication information received from the NFC POS terminal for connecting to a wireless network to enable performing or completing a mobile transaction with the mobile device while the collapsed panel remains collapsed. Alternatively the tap and pair NFC network authentication related function may be incorporated as a separate feature of the mobile device that results in allowing the shopping interface to have access to networked resources such as the mobile transaction server and the like. The NFC POS terminal may provide a means to transfer at least a portion of transaction device user network security and payment related information between the mobile device via the wireless network hub with a backend transaction processing system in a communication network such as mobile transaction server .

The NFC POS terminal and tap and pair functionality may facilitate configuring the mobile device to quickly transfer the payment related information via NFC Bluetooth Wi Fi and the like communication channels without requiring the collapsed panels and to be presented in the expanded state. The multi panel shopping interface may be configured so that at least one active content item disposed on the collapsed panel is configured for confirming access to a wireless network that may be identified via an NFC based tap and pair operation while the collapsed panel remains collapsed. In an example one of the active content items such as the icons or may be configured to accept network access to a network identified via a tap and pair operation without requiring the collapsed panels and to first be expanded. While the NFC POS terminal may support wireless communication within four centimeters of the wireless communication device the wireless network hub may be used to enhance the range of wireless communication which may allow the mobile device user such as a consumer to move or walk about and in proximity to the retail environment while performing electronic transactions and the like as described herein.

A wireless network of a shopping environment e.g. retail consumer store may be configured to include the wireless network hub as illustrated in the and described herein. The wireless network hub may be configured to enable the mobile device to wirelessly communicate in the retail environment so as to facilitate a wide range of touch point opportunities associated with a purchase an offer or any other electronic information exchange including mobile transactions. As shown in the mobile device may be configured to acquire access of the wireless network hub through an NFC function of the mobile device such as a tap and pair function described herein. One or more of the active content items such as the icons or may be configured via an NFC based tap and pair operation to perform a shopping related function using the wireless network hub while the respective collapsed panels and may remain collapsed during initiation or during performance of the shopping related functions. In this way shopping related functions that are accessible via the shopping interface may automatically be given access to available network functions as they are configured on the device.

As previously discussed the shopping interface may be configured to transfer at least a portion of transaction device user network security and payment related information from the mobile device via the wireless network hub to a backend transaction processing system in a communication network. The mobile transactions server as described herein may facilitate conducting secure personalized transactions in the wireless network via a plurality of distinct trust models that may include single trust domain models single trust cluster models multiple trust cluster models direct trust relationship and the like. The mobile transaction server authenticates the transactions and sends authorization codes back to the point of sale system. The mobile transactions server may receive any payment related information from the multi panel shopping interface through the wireless network for effecting a mobile transaction. For example the mobile transaction server may receive payment related information as part of a payment related function activated by an icon of the multi panel shopping interface . The user may activate an icon such as by providing a single tap on the active icon or by providing a single touch or click on the active icon. On tapping or selection of the at least one icon of a particular collapsed panel a shopping related transaction corresponding to the selected icon may be performed without expanding the particular collapsed panel. That is to say the particular panel of the collapsed panel may remain collapsed and the shopping related transaction may be performed in the background of a mobile device operating system.

Once a user s mobile device is configured to access the retail environment wireless network as the user moves within the retail environment the user may be notified of offers purchase opportunities confirmation of prior purchases e.g. NFC purchases and the like confirmation of returns and the like without being required to be within NFC range of an NFC terminal such as NFC POS terminal . Such offers and notifications may be accessible via an active content item available on one of the collapsed panels. In an example one of the active content items may be configured to activate a function to send and receive coupons and the like as touch point messages from the wireless network hub while the respective collapsed panel remains collapsed. In particular one of the collapsed panels may include an active content item for allowing the mobile device user to view coupons and the like as touch point messages while its respective collapsed panel remains collapsed.

In addition to offer management and the like wireless network authentication as described herein e.g. via a NFC tap interaction may further facilitate wireless transfer of diverse formatted content to from the mobile device . The content provided over the wireless network hub may include for example but not limited to a URL a video an audio message a receipt or acknowledgement message transaction data store information comparative shopping information discounts and the like. The mobile device may also receive offers such as offers related to the user purchase history or the like over the wireless network hub .

To facilitate diverse content transfer the mobile device user may be connect to the retail environment wireless network via a tap and pair action with the NFC POS terminal upon entering the retail environment . The NFC POS terminal may facilitate connecting the user s mobile device to the wireless network hub which may be connected to the mobile transactions server . This establishes a logical connection between the user mobile device the wireless network hub and the mobile transactions server . One or more of the active content items described herein in association with the shopping interface may facilitate establishing and coordinating these connections while respective collapsed panels may remain collapsed.

After establishing a connection the user may want to search for products and or services. The multi panel shopping interface may include a search icon disposed in one of the collapsed panels. A selection of the search icon may activate searching related functions while the collapsed panel displaying the search icons may remain collapsed. For example the active content item can be defined as the search icon and may initiate a product search as desired by the user. The selected item may be added to a virtual user cart for processing product payment and the user may then add the selected item in real time to a real cart. An active content item on a collapsed panel of the shopping interface may be activated by the user to scan the item s product code e.g. bar code on the product when adding it to a real cart to confirm the user s desire to complete a purchase transaction for the item. The virtual cart may be configured to be displayed as an active content item over one of the collapsed panels. To facilitate a seamless shopping offer redemption process the multi panel shopping interface can be configured so that any discounts deals or coupons may be automatically applied to the selected product as the product enters the virtual cart. Alternatively the mobile device user may be presented with an option to tap and select another active content item for applying various coupons and the like while respective collapsed panels may remain collapsed. Presenting the user with such an option may include displaying an icon on a collapsed panel in response to determination that the offer coupon is relevant to the item being added to the virtual cart. Such an icon may be presented in such a way as to raise visibility of the icon e.g. color change differentiation size change differentiation dynamically changing icon such as a video and the like . Also such an icon may be presented temporarily to the user so that a user s shopping interface does not become cluttered with offer icons. On selection of the product the mobile device may be configured to coordinate with the wireless network hub and the mobile transactions server and send all product information to the mobile transactions server for payment processing.

The multi panel shopping interface may be configured to ask the mobile device user for confirmation before adding a product to the virtual cart and before sending selected product information to the mobile transactions server . Such a confirmation request may be presented as an icon displayed on a collapsed panel of the shopping interface . Such an icon may be presented in such a way as to raise visibility of the icon e.g. color change differentiation size change differentiation dynamically changing icon such as a video and the like . Also such an icon may be presented temporarily to the user so that a user s shopping interface does not become cluttered with offer icons. Upon user activation of the confirmation icon the confirmation may be sent to the wireless network hub while the respective collapsed panel may remains collapsed. In addition the confirmation icon may be automatically removed from the collapsed panel after confirmation is accepted.

At step the mobile device may be configured to connect with the wireless network hub using the network configuration information. Additionally on completion of the NFC tap information exchange the device may communicate with the wireless network hub to complete authentication and enable the mobile device to use the wireless network. This may use any known or contemplated authentication scheme including without limitation having the device send an authentication token received from the NFC terminal over the wireless network for authentication. The NFC tap and pair operation may cause the mobile device to be configured to use a set of credentials to authenticate with the wireless network hub to perform an electronic transaction and vice versa. As noted above step may be optional if the device has previously been authenticated on the wireless network.

At step a tap on an icon of the collapsed panel may be detected. This tap may lead to the mobile device performing the shopping related function associated with the tapped icon while the respective collapsed panel remains closed. The multi panel shopping interface may be configured to detect the type of active content associated with the tapped icon and accordingly may perform the shopping related functions as desired by the user over the wireless network hub . For example the user may select the active content item associated with the scan icon to scan a product and accordingly the product may be searched using the wireless network hub without expanding the collapsed panel .

At step the type of an electronic transaction and data pertinent to the transaction may be determined to perform the one or more shopping related functions associated with the tapped icon. Accordingly in response to selection of an active content item a type of transaction associated with the selected active content item and related information required to perform the transaction may be determined. For example if a type of transaction associated with the selected active content item is a debit transaction to purchase an item an amount of debit debit account information and account authentication information may be to facilitate purchasing the shopping item. The method may allow determination of the authentication and account credentials of the user so as to perform the transaction. Determining authentication and account credentials may require user interaction so an additional icon may be presented to the user in the corresponding collapsed panel to facilitate such user interaction. Likewise an active content icon may dynamically change shape color size content and the like to signal to the user that user input is required to complete the authentication. Active content items associated with a collapsed panel of the shopping interface may also facilitate performing shopping related functions using a plurality of payment cards e.g. credit debit loyalty and discounted cards a plurality of modes of banking transactions e.g. internet banking mobile banking phone banking third party money transfer foreign currency money payment third party money transfer and the like and other similar types of financial transaction modes. Accordingly the method may include determining a specific type of the transaction and information required to perform any of these transactions. Such transactions may be performed in association with or via a mobile wallet capability of the mobile device as described herein and elsewhere.

At step the transaction request and all related data pertinent to the transaction may be forwarded to the mobile transaction server using the wireless network hub . Forwarding such request and data may be performed via the mobile device s NFC technology for fast electronic payment information transfer through the NFC POS terminal . To facilitate a convenient shopping experience the transaction may be completed after the user has moved away from the NFC terminal and latent delivery of payment confirmation e.g. a payment receipt may be provided via the wireless network.

At step the device may correspond with the mobile transaction server over the wireless network to complete the electronic transaction. The present methods and systems may facilitate completion of the shopping related transaction using the wireless network hub and on selection of the active content item corresponding to a specific collapsed panel such that the collapsed panel may remain in the collapsed state until the acceptance of the transaction.

On selecting an active content item for visual code based network authentication the mobile device may be configured to activate its camera function for capturing image data associated with the visual code . The mobile device may be also configured to scan the visual code e.g. decode the image data . The mobile device may further be configured with required hardware and software capable of scanning and or reading the visual code . For example the mobile device may include a barcode reader capability having decoder logic configured to analyze image data of the visual code . A scan of the visual code may provide network configuration information to the mobile device because the visual code may store the network configuration information. Network configuration information may include a service set identifier SSID number and password required to connect to the wireless network hub . In one aspect configuring the mobile device using the network configuration information may include sending at least a portion of the network configuration information to the mobile device via a network service provider of the mobile device .

The mobile device may utilize a wireless communication technology such as Bluetooth technology Wi Fi technology WIMAX WiBro and the other similar wireless technologies in communication with the wireless network hub . The wireless communication technology may enable the mobile device to wirelessly communicate in the retail environment to facilitate a wide range of touch point opportunities associated with a purchase or an electronic transaction. For example when a consumer moves within the retail environment with the paired mobile device the user may be notified of offers purchase opportunities confirmation of prior NFC purchases confirmation of Bluetooth purchases confirmation of Wi Fi purchases and the like without being required to be within the wireless range of the POS terminal which may not provide a wider range. The wireless communication technology may enhance the range of wireless communication and thereby may allow the mobile device user e.g. a consumer to move or walk while performing electronic transactions and the like in the retail environment .

Once the mobile device gains access for the wireless network hub the user may use the multi panel shopping interface to perform one or more shopping related functions via active content items disposed on one or more of the collapsed panels. A mobile device may perform one or more shopping related functions by communicating over the wireless network with the mobile transaction server .

At step the mobile device may be configured for being used in the wireless network on the basis of the network configuration received in the captured visual scan code step . In an example configuring the mobile device using the network configuration information may include sending at least a portion of the network configuration information to the mobile device via the wireless network.

At step a tap on an icon of the collapsed panel may be detected. The tap may lead to an activation of one or more active content items such as the icons and while the respective collapsed panels may remain closed during the tapping action.

At step the type of an electronic transaction and data pertinent to the transaction may be determined to perform the one or more shopping related functions. For example the user may select the active content item associated with the icon of the collapsed panel . Accordingly the method may include determining the type of transaction associated with the active content item of the icon and related information required to perform the transaction.

At step the transaction request and all related data may be forwarded to the mobile transaction server using the wireless network hub .

At step the device may correspond with the mobile transaction server over the wireless network to complete the electronic transaction.

Referring to that depicts an algorithm for shopping related function selection and execution based on a user selected icon disposed in a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface a shopping related function may be determined by comparing a selected icon to a table of icon entries that facilitates cross referencing disposed icons with shopping related functions.

At step a shopping related function interface executing on a mobile device may detect or be informed of a tap or other user selection of an icon that is disposed on a collapsed panel of a multi panel user interface. Information that identifies the icon and the panel may be provided to the shopping related function interface to facilitate selecting a shopping related function.

At step a shopping related function data set such as a cross reference table may be accessed to gather up possible icons panels and shopping related functions.

At step the selected icon information is used by the shopping related function interface facility to select a shopping related function from the cross reference table. In an example the user may have selected a magnifying icon in a shop panel. This information may be used to identify a shopping related function in the cross reference table.

At step the mobile device executes the selected shopping related function while the panel on which the selected icon is disposed remains collapsed as noted in step .

At step the shopping related function execution is completed while the collapsed panel remains collapsed.

Referring to that depicts a cross reference table of panels icons and shopping functions each panel icon combination may indicate a particular shopping function collapsed panel state and meta data. This cross reference table may be used by software executing on the mobile device to determine a shopping related function to be performed based on which icon is selected on which collapsed panel. This table may further facilitate determining what state the collapsed panel should transition to based on the user selection of an icon. Meta data associated with a panel icon combination may facilitate performing the shopping related function by providing or indicating additional information needed for the function. In an example the combination of a shop panel with a magnifying glass icon indicates a search function is to be performed and meta data that may be suitable for performing the shopping related function may include user preferences such as an order of search results and the like.

While only a few embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that many changes and modifications may be made thereunto without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as described in the following claims. All patent applications and patents both foreign and domestic and all other publications referenced herein are incorporated herein in their entireties to the full extent permitted by law.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through a machine that executes computer software program codes and or instructions on a processor. The present invention may be implemented as a method on the machine as a system or apparatus as part of or in relation to the machine or as a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium executing on one or more of the machines. In embodiments the processor may be part of a server cloud server client network infrastructure mobile computing platform stationary computing platform or other computing platform. A processor may be any kind of computational or processing device capable of executing program instructions codes binary instructions and the like. The processor may be or may include a signal processor digital processor embedded processor microprocessor or any variant such as a co processor math co processor graphic co processor communication co processor and the like and the like that may directly or indirectly facilitate execution of program code or program instructions stored thereon. In addition the processor may enable execution of multiple programs threads and codes. The threads may be executed simultaneously to enhance the performance of the processor and to facilitate simultaneous operations of the application. By way of implementation methods program codes program instructions and the like described herein may be implemented in one or more thread. The thread may spawn other threads that may have assigned priorities associated with them the processor may execute these threads based on priority or any other order based on instructions provided in the program code. The processor or any machine utilizing one may include memory that stores methods codes instructions and programs as described herein and elsewhere. The processor may access a storage medium through an interface that may store methods codes and instructions as described herein and elsewhere. The storage medium associated with the processor for storing methods programs codes program instructions or other type of instructions capable of being executed by the computing or processing device may include but may not be limited to one or more of a CD ROM DVD memory hard disk flash drive RAM ROM cache and the like.

A processor may include one or more cores that may enhance speed and performance of a multiprocessor. In embodiments the process may be a dual core processor quad core processors other chip level multiprocessor and the like that combine two or more independent cores called a die .

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through a machine that executes computer software on a server client firewall gateway hub router or other such computer and or networking hardware. The software program may be associated with a server that may include a file server print server domain server internet server intranet server cloud server and other variants such as secondary server host server distributed server and the like. The server may include one or more of memories processors computer readable media storage media ports physical and virtual communication devices and interfaces capable of accessing other servers clients machines and devices through a wired or a wireless medium and the like. The methods programs or codes as described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the server. In addition other devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the server.

The server may provide an interface to other devices including without limitation clients other servers printers database servers print servers file servers communication servers distributed servers social networks and the like. Additionally this coupling and or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. In addition any of the devices attached to the server through an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods programs code and or instructions. A central repository may provide program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation the remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code instructions and programs.

The software program may be associated with a client that may include a file client print client domain client internet client intranet client and other variants such as secondary client host client distributed client and the like. The client may include one or more of memories processors computer readable media storage media ports physical and virtual communication devices and interfaces capable of accessing other clients servers machines and devices through a wired or a wireless medium and the like. The methods programs or codes as described herein and elsewhere may be executed by the client. In addition other devices required for execution of methods as described in this application may be considered as a part of the infrastructure associated with the client.

The client may provide an interface to other devices including without limitation servers other clients printers database servers print servers file servers communication servers distributed servers and the like. Additionally this coupling and or connection may facilitate remote execution of program across the network. The networking of some or all of these devices may facilitate parallel processing of a program or method at one or more location without deviating from the scope of the disclosure. In addition any of the devices attached to the client through an interface may include at least one storage medium capable of storing methods programs applications code and or instructions. A central repository may provide program instructions to be executed on different devices. In this implementation the remote repository may act as a storage medium for program code instructions and programs.

The methods and systems described herein may be deployed in part or in whole through network infrastructures. The network infrastructure may include elements such as computing devices servers routers hubs firewalls clients personal computers communication devices routing devices and other active and passive devices modules and or components as known in the art. The computing and or non computing device s associated with the network infrastructure may include apart from other components a storage medium such as flash memory buffer stack RAM ROM and the like. The processes methods program codes instructions described herein and elsewhere may be executed by one or more of the network infrastructural elements. The methods and systems described herein may be adapted for use with any kind of private community or hybrid cloud computing network or cloud computing environment including those which involve features of software as a service SAAS platform as a service PaaS and or infrastructure as a service IaaS .

The methods program codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on a cellular network having multiple cells. The cellular network may either be frequency division multiple access FDMA network or code division multiple access CDMA network. The cellular network may include mobile devices cell sites base stations repeaters antennas towers and the like. The cell network may be a GSM GPRS 3G EVDO mesh or other networks types.

The methods program codes and instructions described herein and elsewhere may be implemented on or through mobile devices. The mobile devices may include navigation devices cell phones mobile phones mobile personal digital assistants laptops palmtops net books pagers electronic books readers music players and the like. These devices may include apart from other components a storage medium such as a flash memory buffer RAM ROM and one or more computing devices. The computing devices associated with mobile devices may be enabled to execute program codes methods and instructions stored thereon. Alternatively the mobile devices may be configured to execute instructions in collaboration with other devices. The mobile devices may communicate with base stations interfaced with servers and configured to execute program codes. The mobile devices may communicate on a peer to peer network mesh network or other communications network. The program code may be stored on the storage medium associated with the server and executed by a computing device embedded within the server. The base station may include a computing device and a storage medium. The storage device may store program codes and instructions executed by the computing devices associated with the base station.

The computer software program codes and or instructions may be stored and or accessed on machine readable media that may include computer components devices and recording media that retain digital data used for computing for some interval of time semiconductor storage known as random access memory RAM mass storage typically for more permanent storage such as optical discs forms of magnetic storage like hard disks tapes drums cards and other types processor registers cache memory volatile memory non volatile memory optical storage such as CD DVD removable media such as flash memory e.g. USB sticks or keys floppy disks magnetic tape paper tape punch cards standalone RAM disks Zip drives removable mass storage off line and the like other computer memory such as dynamic memory static memory read write storage mutable storage read only random access sequential access location addressable file addressable content addressable network attached storage storage area network bar codes magnetic ink and the like.

The methods and systems described herein may transform physical and or or intangible items from one state to another. The methods and systems described herein may also transform data representing physical and or intangible items from one state to another.

The elements described and depicted herein including in flow charts and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented on machines through computer executable media having a processor capable of executing program instructions stored thereon as a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these and all such implementations may be within the scope of the present disclosure. Examples of such machines may include but may not be limited to personal digital assistants laptops personal computers mobile phones other handheld computing devices medical equipment wired or wireless communication devices transducers chips calculators satellites tablet PCs electronic books gadgets electronic devices devices having artificial intelligence computing devices networking equipment servers routers and the like. Furthermore the elements depicted in the flow chart and block diagrams or any other logical component may be implemented on a machine capable of executing program instructions. Thus while the foregoing drawings and descriptions set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context. Similarly it will be appreciated that the various steps identified and described above may be varied and that the order of steps may be adapted to particular applications of the techniques disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. As such the depiction and or description of an order for various steps should not be understood to require a particular order of execution for those steps unless required by a particular application or explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

The methods and or processes described above and steps associated therewith may be realized in hardware software or any combination of hardware and software suitable for a particular application. The hardware may include a general purpose computer and or dedicated computing device or specific computing device or particular aspect or component of a specific computing device. The processes may be realized in one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors or other programmable device along with internal and or external memory. The processes may also or instead be embodied in an application specific integrated circuit a programmable gate array programmable array logic or any other device or combination of devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be appreciated that one or more of the processes may be realized as a computer executable code capable of being executed on a machine readable medium.

The computer executable code may be created using a structured programming language such as C an object oriented programming language such as C or any other high level or low level programming language including assembly languages hardware description languages and database programming languages and technologies that may be stored compiled or interpreted to run on one of the above devices as well as heterogeneous combinations of processors processor architectures or combinations of different hardware and software or any other machine capable of executing program instructions.

Thus in one aspect methods described above and combinations thereof may be embodied in computer executable code that when executing on one or more computing devices performs the steps thereof. In another aspect the methods may be embodied in systems that perform the steps thereof and may be distributed across devices in a number of ways or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated standalone device or other hardware. In another aspect the means for performing the steps associated with the processes described above may include any of the hardware and or software described above. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

While the disclosure has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present disclosure is not to be limited by the foregoing examples but is to be understood in the broadest sense allowable by law.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosure especially in the context of the following claims is to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein may be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the disclosure and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the disclosure unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the disclosure.

While the foregoing written description enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations combinations and equivalents of the specific embodiment method and examples herein. The disclosure should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment method and examples but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the disclosure.

