---

title: System and method for authorizing and monetizing a telephone call
abstract: A system and method of authorizing and monetizing a telephone communication such as a voice call is disclosed. The calling party may be in a controlled environment such as a prison or hospital; the called party is using a mobile telephone device. The call is facilitated by a service provider such as a connect service provider. The call is monetized by a message service charge billed to an account associated with the mobile telephone device. The call is facilitated as a voice call if there is authorization both for a charge for message service to the mobile telephone device and for the call from the calling party. The system is implemented with a system may use a message service communication protocol for the message and billing charge. computer-based system in operation with the interactive voice response system. Revenue from monetization of the call may be shared between service providers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037110&OS=09037110&RS=09037110
owner: Securus Technologies, Inc.
number: 09037110
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131126
---
This is a continuation application based upon and claiming the benefit of priority of and incorporating by reference in full the following U.S. patent applications Ser. No. 13 449 308 filed Apr. 17 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 626 118 which is a division of Ser. No. 12 103 138 filed Apr. 15 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 190 121 which claims priority to Ser. No. 60 935 634 filed Aug. 23 2007.

The present invention relates to a method a system and programming instructions stored on computer readable medium for authorizing and monetizing collect cellular telephone calls.

In some situations a calling party cannot easily establish a telephone telecommunications link with another called party. This is particularly true when the calling party is in a physically restricted environment such as a prison hospital or other controlled facility. In this situation the calling party must use a specially configured telephone which accesses an operator service provider OSP and that OSP then assists the calling party to reach the called party. In these situations the called party s telephone must accept collect calls. In the absence of the collect call acceptance by the called party the telephone telecommunications link is not established and the calling party is blocked from communicating over the telephone due to actions by the OSP electronic denial of service .

It is an object of the present invention to provide a system and a method for authorizing and monetizing collect cellular telephone calls.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a system and a method wherein authorization requires a positive response either a positive voice response or a positive touch tone response or a positive text message response from the called party in possession of an identifiable cellular telephone.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide both internal and external databases with a white list or approved cellular phone list capable of accepting cellular collect calls and a black list or service denied list containing cellular telephone numbers which are blocked due to various considerations.

It is an additional object of the present invention to provide inspirational information to the called party as part of the collect cellular telephone call.

The method of authorizing and monetizing a cellular collect call requires identifying the cellular telephone carrier associated with an identified cellular telephone having a certain telephone number. After determining whether the carrier and the cellular telephone is enabled to accept a message service charge premium SMS a voice response module is activated seeking a positive authorization from the called party in possession of the cellular telephone. If the carrier and the telephone is enabled and a positive response is obtained from the called party on the identified cellular telephone the system facilitates a connection between the calling party and the called party and initiates a predetermined billing charge assigned to the cellular telephone number. If the carrier or the cell phone is not enabled or if no authorization is obtained from the called party the system facilitates a denial of completion of the collect cellular telephone call a refusal to connect the caller and the called party . A timing function is often activated upon facilitating the connection between the calling party and the called party. In order to determine whether a collect cellular telephone call will be accepted by an identified cellular telephone databases are accessed and one of these databases includes prior billing records of cellular telephone numbers. The designated database has an approved list of cellular telephone numbers a white list and a denied service list of cellular telephone numbers a black list . In the denied service list the designated database typically includes an indicator referencing prior charge backs for the assigned cellular telephone number.

The present invention relates to a system a method and programming instructions stored on computer readable medium for authorizing and monetizing collect cellular telephone calls. Similar numerals designate similar items throughout all the figures. The following Abbreviations Table shows several abbreviations used in the drawings and in the description of the present inventive system method and program. The term monetization refers to utilizing a certain feature of cell phone telecommunications and collecting money employing that cell phone feature.

In the prior art it is known that some cell phones and some telecommunications cellular telephone carriers permit cell phones which are connected to the telecommunications carrier wireless network to accept charges for short message charges or SMS charges. Particularly SMS premium charges may be permitted by both the cellular carrier and the cell phone. Sometimes a carrier handles SMS charges but will not permit certain cell phones on its network to accept SMS premium charges. SMS technology has facilitated the development and growth of text messaging and is sometimes called herein message service communications protocol. 

The term cellular telephone carrier includes all types of telecommunications carriers delivering cellular or other types of wireless telephone service either directly or through other telecommunications entities to end users with cellular phones or cellular service enabled devices. Cell phones include these cellular service enabled devices. The cellular telephone carrier may be a third party reseller of cellular phone services a reseller of Verizon cell phone carrier services . The term telephone number includes numeric and alphanumeric and symbolic characters. A cellular telephone number also includes in conjunction with the present invention and appended claims either the cell phone number or any unique identifier which by data processing methods is linked or associated with the cellular telephone number.

The prior methodology enables calling party via land line to access OSP . The operator or automated IVR system at OSP recognizes that calling party wishes to access alternate called party having land line connected in some fashion to phone service provider because caller inputs the phone number of phone . The OSP utilizes telecommunications network to access phone service provider which provider then calls alternate called party . OSP then inquires through phone service provider whether alternate called party will accept the collect call. If YES the collect call is connected between caller party and alternate called party . Phone service provider bills the owner of telephone for the collect call.

In contrast called party utilizing cell phone may or may not be enabled or permitted to accept collect calls.

A reasonable number of cellular telecom carriers are unable or unwilling to bill the owner of cell phone for collect calls. Sometimes in this patent description reference is made to a message service billing charge which refers to charges billed to the account for cell phone by cellular carrier . Premium SMS or message service billing charges may be 10 or higher per unit event for example 20 minutes of call time . Multiple message service billings or variable message service billings may be employed herein.

In contrast a reasonable number of cellular telephones and or cell phone carriers do permit billing of SMS or message service billing charges to a particular cellular telephone account. Therefore a determination must be made early in the collect call process to ascertain whether cell phone carrier is enabled to accept message service billing and is enabled to charge their customers for such message service bills. Also a determination must be made that a particular identifiable cellular telephone is enabled to accept these message service billing charges. Calling party employing a telecommunications device with operator service provider inputs a called cellular telephone number which may be associated with either cell phone carrier or cell carrier B or cell carrier C . Therefore the system must ascertain what cell phone carrier is linked to the input cellular telephone number.

A diagrammatic billing cycle for the message service billing is shown by billing service computer program module which sends a bill paper or electronic or charge slip to a bank or a credit card or a financial institution to called party . Called party then authorizes or permits withdraw of money or compensation which payment is ultimately logged or recorded by billing module and cell phone carrier . Part of that money paid by called party in the present invention is delivered to CCS for compensation of the inventive system and method for collect cellular telephone calls. This process monetizes the collect cell phone call.

Collect cell phone program begins by calling party placing a cellular telephone collect call to operator service provider OSP . Calling party inputs a cellular telephone number associated with an identifiable cellular telephone at step . The OSP has an application programming interface API provided by and operating in conjunction with cell phone connect service CCS . Effectively OSP and the hardware and software at OSP either is a combination of software modules provided by CCS or communicates software and hardware at CCS provided over telecommunications network . In any event the OSP in step passes the called cell phone number to CCS . In step CCS accesses a database to determine the automatic number identification ANI service. The ANI service identifies which cell carrier is associated with the input cellular telephone number. Technically the ANI service is provided via external database . There may be one or many data stores or databases. The communications links A B in establish mechanisms and software access modules for returning this information ultimately to CCS and to the API at OSP . Further the API and or the CCS determines whether the input number from calling party is an active cellular number and determines whether the cell phone carrier accepts the message service billing in the present situation an SMS charge service.

In step the called cellular telephone of called party is input or recorded in internal database along with the cell phone carrier. The internal or designated database or data store is typically maintained by CCS but may be an external database. As is known in the industry by person of ordinary skill in the art the automatic number identification ANI service and external database is publicly available through reasonable authorization procedures. Internal database is internally run by CCS . Step accesses the internal database and activates a loss prevention system.

One example of an external database is Neustar which enables an inquiring party via a data packet to determine the cell phone carrier for a particular cell phone telephone which then enables CCS to determine whether that cell phone carrier will accept SMS or message service billing charges.

The loss prevention system operated on and utilizing internal database at CCS can be configured in many ways. The loss prevention system may include a call frequency analysis program limiting frequent collect calls to a single phone a white list of approved cell phone numbers and a black list of disapproved or deny service cell phone numbers. For example if a collect cellular telephone call has been made and a bill is sent out but then rejected or charged back by called party the charge back is recorded in internal database and the denied service or black list is updated to include the designated cell phone which correlates to called party . Future calls to this denied service number may be blocked or rejected. The frequency of calls over a predetermined period monthly and the total amount of calls during that period may be monitored by the internal loss prevention system and internal database the designated data store for CCS . For example AT T a cellular telephone carrier limits premium SMS or message billings to no more than 5 calls per billing cycle. In contrast T Mobile another cellular carrier permits no more than 7 SMS or message service billings per billing cycle. The CCS loss prevention program limits collect calls within these parameters based upon carrier id and frequency of use in a set period of time.

Further the internal database and loss prevention system and software module may provide a white list or approved cell phone numbers which override other considerations. For example if calling party is in prison and calling party s lawyer wishes to speak to prisoner on all occasions the lawyer as called party and as owner and in possession of cell phone may always authorize a collect cell phone call from calling party to cell phone . This cell phone number is posted on the white list.

As a further enhancement calling party may be required to input a special code in order to confirm his or her ability to complete the collect cellular telephone call. Software modifications would then include a password cross check.

Decision step determines whether the cell phone carrier is enabled to accept message service billing and whether called cellular telephone is enabled to accept message service billing. If not the NO branch from decision step is taken and in step the caller is returned to OSP and a voice response or interactive voice response IVR module may indicate to calling party that the collect cellular call is not available. Step indicates that the IVR announces that the service is not available and a message to that effect is provided to calling party . Step indicates that the OSP may provide other options to caller party such as calling land line and alternate call party . Step indicates the end of that branch of the API or software module.

Returning to decision step if the YES branch is taken in step CCS notifies OSP that an active session ID is open. The ID is passed to OSP as a signal for the active session. Optionally the cell phone carrier identification signal may logged by OSP . Step activates an IVR or interactive voice response to the called party in possession of cellular telephone . Step continues the collect cell phone program from to . Step places a message MSG A which is audibly heard or visibly presented via a text message to called party cell phone . One type of message A can be as follows You have a call from calling party name. For a one time charge of 9.99 charged to your wireless cell phone bill you can be connected for up to 20 minutes of talk time. You will also receive an inspirational text alert. You must be 18 years or older to accept this call. Standard text message and air time charges may apply. To accept this call press 1 or say YES. 

Decision step determines whether called party accepts or denies the call. If the called party denies the call either by saying NO pressing a different number or taking no action a negative opt in the NO branch activates program module . A positive acceptance or a negative no action acceptance may be employed. Step returns a signal to OSP that the call in unbillable. Step triggers a voice response service not available message to calling party . Step notes that the branch ends.

Returning to decision step if the called party possessing identified cell phone indicates a positive response by pressing 1 or by saying YES the IVR software system notes that positive response and in step the IVR software module delivers second message B. An example of the second message may be as follows Thank you. By accepting this call you are agreeing to the terms of this service which can be located at web address URL. 9.99 will be charged to your wireless phone bill and you will receive your inspirational text message shortly. To confirm these charges and be connected for up to 20 minutes of talk time press 3. 

Another example which referred to as the negative option may be as follows Thank you. By accepting the call you are agreeing to the terms of this service which can be located at web address URL. 9.99 will be charged to your wireless phone bill and you will receive your inspirational text message shortly. 

Decision step determines whether the called party in possession of identified cell phone accepts the collect cellular telephone call. Positive or negative acceptance may be employed. If no the system takes the NO branch which returns back to step discussed above. If YES the system activates software module wherein the OSP notifies the CCS of the called party cellular telephone number the active session ID and the price points for the collect call these price points are optional . It should be noted that different prices may be assessed for different cellular telephone carriers and different calling parties . Therefore different price points may be identified to OSP as compared to CSS .

Step activates the interactive voice response IVR message we will connect you. Step then delivers an inspirational text message via text message msg . A typical inspirational text follows No action is more fascinating than the action of self transformation. Step connects the calling party through the OSP and telecommunications network and cell phone carrier to identified cellular telephone . Substantially concurrently or shortly thereafter the system in step via CCS generates a billing data packet or SMS premium charge linking the predetermined billing charge to the cellular telephone . This billing data packet billing code cell phone number vendor id CCS is sent effectively via telecommunications system to cell phone carrier . In step CSS logs or records the call event in internal database . Step ends the branch.

Returning to step wherein the collect cellular telephone call is connected between calling party and called party either the OSP or the CCS establishes and initiates a timer clock in functional block . The activation of a timing function by the API at OSP or the CCS limits the duration of the collect cellular telephone call. As illustrated in jump step continues the collect cell phone program on . In step the IVR may generate a time limit reminder to both calling party and called party . This audio reminder may say call will end in 2 minutes or other predetermined call end time indicator. Step shows that a time up has been reached on the functional timer clock. In step the call is ended or disconnected by OSP or CCS .

As explained above the billing data packet or SMS premium charge is sent from CCS to cell phone carrier . Periodically during a billing cycle cell phone carrier activates billing module which generates bill having the SMS charge or billing data charge. Called party may pay this bill as shown by arrow and ultimately a portion of this money is paid to CCS as shown by arrow . The OSP may also be paid in a revenue sharing system. In the event called party disputes the bill and refuses to pay this event in the cellular service is called a charge back. CCS will accept charge back data from cell phone carrier . This charge back data is then stored in internal database and the cell phone number is placed on a black list or deny service list.

In contrast if the cell phone and the cell phone carrier excepts the billing data packet and premium SMS charge the cell phone number and the cell phone carrier ID is placed on an approved list or white list in internal database . By building a denied service or black list and an approved list of cell phone numbers and cell phone carrier IDs the CCS can quickly connect calling party to called party without accessing multiple databases both internal to CCS and external to their operation. External databases are generally available and accessible via telecommunications network . The use of internal databases or data shares reduces costs of operation.

It is important to note that the CCS or the API placed on both OSP and CCS does not actually complete the call or deny the cell phone call but simply facilitates the completion of calls and denial of service connections. The facilitation of call completion utilizes a connection data packet sent to OSP . The denial by CCS requires generating a call denied data packet to OSP . In any event the connection data packet or call denied data packet results in completion of the call by OSP or the refusal to complete the collect cellular telephone call by OSP .

Internal database may record the called cellular telephone number the associated cell phone carrier an indication of the predetermined billing charge and time based data such as date time stamp associated with a completed call among other things. Internal database associated with CCS determines the presence of an earlier record of a cell phone number and either connects the call or denies the call by generating a connection data packet or a call denied data packet.

The system utilizes software modules which are computer programs and associated memory units to identify the cellular telephone carrier and determine whether the carrier and the cellular telephone are able to accept the message service billing charge. The resulting enablement signal is generated by CSS or the API operating in conjunction with OSP and CCS . There may be two enablement signals one for the cell phone carrier and a second for the identified cell phone or cell phone number. The IVR generates signal representing a request for authorization which are generally identified above as messages A and B. The IVR as is known by persons of ordinary skill in the art includes some system or software module to determine a positive audio or electronic response from call party in possession of cellular telephone . The facilitation of a connection between OSP and cellular telephone is generated by a connection signal ultimately developed by CCS . A system for generating the billing charge or premium predetermined billing charge is provided by computer systems memories and programs at CCS .

The present invention relates to a cell phone collect calling system and method on a telecommunications network or in a computer network LAN or WAN and potentially over the Internet and computer programs computer modules and an information processing system to accomplish this cell phone collect calling system. In addition to the computer implementation of the inventive aspects of this invention a computer based method is also encompassed herein.

It is important to know that the embodiments illustrated herein and described herein below are only examples of the many advantageous uses of the innovative teachings set forth herein. In general statements made in the specification of the present application do not necessarily limit any of the various claimed inventions. Moreover some statements may apply to some inventive features but not to others. In general unless otherwise indicated singular elements may be in the plural and vice versa with no loss of generality. In the drawings like numerals refer to like parts or features throughout the several views.

The present invention could be produced in hardware or software or in a combination of hardware and software and these implementations would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The system or method according to the inventive principles as disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiment may be produced in a networked telecommunications computer system having separate elements or means for performing the individual functions or steps described or claimed or one or more elements or means combining the performance of any of the functions or steps disclosed or claimed or may be arranged in a distributed computer system interconnected by any suitable means as would be known by one of ordinary skill in the art.

According to the inventive principles as disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments the invention and the inventive principles are not limited to any particular kind of computer system but may be used with any general purpose computer as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art arranged to perform the functions described and the method steps described. The operations of such a computer as described above may be according to a computer program contained on a medium for use in the operation or control of the computer as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The computer medium which may be used to hold or contain the computer program product may be a fixture of the computer such as an embedded memory or may be on a transportable medium such as a disk as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Further the program or components or modules thereof may be downloaded from the Internet of otherwise through a computer network.

The invention is not limited to any particular computer program or logic or language or instruction but may be practiced with any such suitable program logic or language or instructions as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The sequence of operation may be altered steps or functions combined and simplified or made more complex as necessary to carry out the functional purposes of the program step forth herein and in the claims. The functional software modules may be configured as APIs in hardware at the CCS and or OSP as necessary to achieve the functional elements described herein. Without limiting the principles of the disclosed invention any such computing system can include inter alia at least a computer readable medium allowing a computer to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may include non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory floppy disk disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. Additionally a computer readable medium may include for example volatile storage such as RAM buffers cache memory and network circuits. Furthermore the computer readable medium may include computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and or a network interface including a wired network or a wireless network that allows a computer to read such computer readable information. The claims appended hereto are meant to cover modifications and changes within the scope and spirit of the present invention.

