---

title: Systems and methods for parking vehicles
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes associating a pre-existing dataset to one or more physical entities via association with an encoded token; monitoring interactions between the entity and the token; providing data from the dataset to the entity based on that monitoring; and updating the dataset with new or modified data from the entity by referencing the encoded token. In another embodiment, a method includes transmitting a vehicle retrieval request to a service provider including a delivery location; generating a listing event based on transmission of retrieval request; and transmitting a dataset back to retrieval requester.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135580&OS=09135580&RS=09135580
owner: Parkt, Inc.
number: 09135580
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131015
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 713 921 filed Oct. 15 2012 entitled Systems And Methods For Parking Vehicles which is incorporated by reference.

A personal vehicle is a popular mode of transportation. Vehicles have access to vast networks of roadways allowing for flexible travel times and routes. However using a personal vehicle for transportation often comes with a significant constraint that is if a driver or occupant of a vehicle desires to exit the vehicle when they ve reached their destination the vehicle must be parked while the driver or occupant is away from it.

Suitable parking can be difficult to locate. If suitable parking is available the parking process may involve time consuming and confusing steps. Furthermore suitable parking may have an associated cost that requires a financial transaction occur between a parking provider and a customer which can further complicate the parking process.

Due to the many possible combinations in parking transaction type and payment processes the entities that provide parking services use different types of parking processes. For example municipalities often offer parking on public property or streets. Some private entities are solely in the business of making a profit by providing parking services. Other entities such as shopping malls hotels or casinos provide parking services to attract customers to a primary business. Many different types of parking processes are utilized by the parking providers. Some example processes are valet parking pay on entrance parking lots or garages or metered street parking. A parking provider may offer one or more parking services at a parking location. Parking providers sometimes make parking processes available at only limited times.

Lack of uniformity in parking services can be frustrating for many drivers especially when driving in high traffic areas. Drivers often select a parking service after reaching the general vicinity of a destination. Parking providers try to communicate key details the parking they have available with signs placed near the entrance to a parking facility. As part of the parking process drivers are often forced to circle the block looking for parking and must make split second decisions when selecting a parking provider based on limited information displayed on the signs posted by parking providers. Drivers may end up using a parking service poorly matched to the driver s parking needs. Auto accidents may occur when a driver s attention is diverted from driving to reading parking signs. The search for parking may also increase traffic congestion waste fuel and increase pollution.

Once a driver finds parking further confusion may occur related to the transaction. For example a driver may realize that his or her credit card is not a payment method accepted by the parking provider after parking and exiting his vehicle. The driver must then obtain the necessary form of payment causing delay and possibly be issued a parking citation. Those at pay at exit lots may get stuck behind a line of other drivers prior to exiting if multiple drivers attempt to exit at the same time.

Some parking providers have made efforts to improve parking transactions by using on site automated parking systems. These systems can be configured to process or verify payments. Automated parking systems can be frustrating for customers to operate expensive to maintain difficult to locate and lacking in uniformity. Like a transaction with an attendant customers may experience delay while waiting in line behind other customers to use an automated parking system.

Valet parking is one option that can offer a driver a more pleasant parking experience. In a valet type parking control of a vehicle is turned over to parking staff usually located near the driver s destination. Once the parking staff obtains control of the vehicle a valet parks the vehicle. When the driver wishes to retrieve the vehicle he or she typically walks to a nearby valet station and makes an in person retrieval request for the vehicle. The customer cannot depart until the vehicle is retrieved by valet staff which may lead to delay. A bottleneck may occur during the retrieval process if multiple customers make concurrent retrieval requests. Payment for valet parking is typically processed manually by the same parking staff responsible for retrieving vehicles leading to additional delay for waiting customers.

Although valet parking can provide a more convenient parking experience for the customer it can be a relatively more expensive service for a parking provider to provide. Compared to other types of parking valet parking has higher labor costs associated with staffing the drop pickup area manually processing payments and parking and retrieving vehicles. Maintaining adequate staffing levels to minimize delay experienced by customers adds to these costs. Customers must return to the valet station to pick up their vehicle. Some parking providers offer parking to consumers at parking lots and garages.

Sometimes these parking facilities are located within prime commercial or entertainment districts leading to overcrowding and lack of capacity due to their proximity to customer s destinations. It is very expensive to add additional capacity in prime areas due to the cost of real estate and construction. Other parking facilities are located adjacent to prime commercial and entertainment districts but not close enough to be as desirable for use by customers. These non prime facilities are underutilized compared to the prime locations.

Communications paths and may provide connectivity between electronic device the transaction identifier data and the parking event system respectively. Communications path may provide connectivity between the first electronic device and the second electronic device . Communications path may provide connectivity between the parking event server and the parking event storage . Other various network components and embodiments may also be provided.

A parking transaction involves the storage or parking of a vehicle. A parking transaction refers to a transaction conducted between a parking provider and a customer. The customer may refer to a person or entity that requests information related to a parking transaction. Typically the customer is a person who utilized the parked vehicle for transportation. It is understood that the customer may be another person or entity that seeks information about the parking transaction. Thus the customer may be another person or entity that wishes to make a payment toward the parking transaction. Some parking transactions may be associated with more than one customer. For example a customer may be a business that desires to pay for or validate the parking its patrons. In another example the customer is an employer wishing to pay for the parking of its employees.

The vehicle is typically an automobile. However it is understood that the vehicle could include any machine used to move a person such as but not limited to a recreational vehicle a boat motorcycle Segway airplane or bicycle. It should be understood that the vehicle may travel on land water or through the air or combination of more than one medium.

The park zone refers to a physical space where the vehicle is parked or stored during a parking transaction. The park zone may refer to a parking lot a physical structure such as a parking garage municipal parking or on street parking. In some embodiments park zone may include all municipal on street parking in a geographic area. For example the geographic area may be neighborhood or a city. In some embodiments park zone refers to all space in a geographic area associated with a certain parking provider. For example the park zone may include a combination of parking lots and garages managed or otherwise serviced by a parking provider. In some embodiments the park zone may include a marina park or airplane hangar.

The vehicle may be stored in the park zone temporarily or for the majority of the parking transaction. The park zone may include a load and or unload zone. A load and unload zone is often used in a valet embodiment. In some embodiments the park zone may include a load zone and an unload zone at different physical locations.

In some embodiments the vehicle may be stored within the park zone for a majority of the time associated with the parking transaction. As examples the park zone may include a parking garage or all municipal street parking within a geographically defined boundary. In some embodiments the vehicle is not kept within the park zone for the majority of the parking transaction. For example the park zone may be a load and or unload zone in embodiments that include valet parking transactions. In a valet embodiment it is understood that the vehicle may be moved from the park zone to another location during part of the time associated with the parking transaction. If the size of the park zone is such that just a few vehicles may fit moving the vehicle to another location during the parking transaction may be desirable in order to accommodate additional vehicles and associated parking transactions. If the park zone is used as a temporary drop zone it may allow more customers to obtain the benefits associated with the park zone especially if the park zone is located adjacent to a destination where parking is scarce. Usually but not always a customer obtains the vehicle from the park zone at the end of end of the parking transaction. In a valet parking transaction the vehicle is usually moved from one location to a more convenient location for the customer when the customer requests that the vehicle be retrieved.

The parking event server may process the transaction data and related data. The parking event server may manage access to the transaction data . The parking event server may communicate with the first electronic device second electronic device third electronic device additional electronic devices or combinations thereof. The parking event server may communicate the transaction data to the first second or third electronic devices or combinations thereof.

The parking event server may include one or more network interface components. The one or more network interface components may be contained within or communicatively coupled to the parking event server . The network interface components may include one or more network interface cards NIC or a network controller. In some embodiments the network interface may include a personal area network PAN interface.

The parking event server may be configured as a database server. The parking event server may be configured as a web server able to receive http requests and transmit http responses. In some embodiments the parking event server includes Application Programming Interface API . The parking event server may be configured to operate Apache or MySQL applications. The parking event server may be configured to operate using the Unix or Linux operating systems. However it is understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that a variety of operating system configurations and server application software may be utilized in the parking event server . It is understood that the parking event server and parking event storage may be used by more than one parking event system.

The parking event storage may consist of any suitable storage for storing the transaction data . Parking event storage may include one or more data storage devices. Parking event storage may utilize a redundant array of disks tape disk or other computer accessible storage. Parking event storage may be a storage area network an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS or a network file system NFS .

The parking event storage may include a memory system. The memory system may be a random access memory RAM. The memory system may include memory of the parking event server . The parking event storage may utilize non volatile memory volatile or both. As examples parking event storage may include DRAM SRAM solid state drive SSD FLASH or a combination thereof. It may be preferable to utilize memories as the parking event storage because they may allow the parking event server to access the data in the parking event storage at faster rates.

Parking event storage may be remote local or a combination thereof with respect to the parking event server . The parking event storage may be located within the same case or housing as the parking event server . In some embodiments shorter distances between the parking event server and parking event storage may allow the parking event server to access data stored in the parking event storage at faster rates.

Communication path provides connectivity between the parking event storage and the parking event server . Path may utilize a bus. Path may utilize cabled network or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45 Category 5 Ethernet connection a fiber connection a traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection. Path may include wireless connectivity. Path may include any suitable communication path as described below for path .

The first electronic device is a device capable of data communication with the parking event system . The first electronic device may include a processor. The first electronic device may include storage. The storage of the first electronic device may include memory and or disk storage. The storage of the electronic device may include equivalent storage as discussed above for the parking event storage . The first electronic device may include a unique identifier such as but not limited to a media access control MAC address. The unique identifier may be stored in the parking event storage . The electronic device may include one or more network interface components. The one or more network interface components may be contained within or communicatively coupled to the electronic device . The network interface components may include one or more network interface cards NIC or a network controller. In some embodiments the network interface may include a personal area network PAN interface.

The first electronic device may include a microprocessor system microcontroller or field programmable gate array FGPA . The first electronic device may include a computer. The computer may be a desktop computer or a notebook computer. The first electronic device may be configured to operate as a server. In some embodiments the first electronic device may include a portable electronic device. In some embodiments it is preferable to use a handheld device or portable electronic device as the first electronic device . In some embodiments the electronic device may include a mobile telephone cell phone music player PDA smart phone laptop computer notebook computer or tablet computer. As examples the electronic device may be a Blackberry IPOD IPAD iPhone Android device or a Windows based Smartphone.

The first electronic device includes a first data key. The first data key may be transmitted to the parking event server . The parking event server may set an access level to the transaction data for the first electronic device based on the first data key. In one embodiment the first data key may correspond to a parking provider type of user. It may desirable for the parking provider type of user to be accorded access to the transaction data. If the first electronic device transmits the first data key to the parking event server the parking event server will associate the first electronic device the parking provider level of access to the transaction data . In other embodiments the first data key may correspond to a customer of parking services or a third party business that may validate parking transactions. In one embodiment the parking provider level of access may allow electronic device to modify the transaction data . Thus the first key may allow an electronic device that submits it to modify the transaction data.

The parking event system and the first electronic device may be communicatively coupled through the path . The parking event system and the first electronic device may communicate data through the path . The parking event system may transmit and or receive data from the first electronic device through the path . The parking event system may transmit transaction data to the first electronic device . Data may be transmitted from the first electronic device to the parking event system . Path may be used to communicatively couple the second electronic device third electronic device or additional electronic devices to the parking event system . Thus the second or third electronic devices or additional electronic devices may be configured to communicate with the parking event system as discussed herein for the first electronic device .

The path may include a system or protocol suitable for transmitting and or receiving data communication between the first electronic device and the parking event system . The path may include a system providing wired connectivity a system providing wireless connectivity or combinations thereof. For example path may include a system for wired connectivity using a protocol such as IEEE 802.3. Path may include wireless connectivity based on protocols such as Bluetooth Wireless Application Protocol WAP Global System for Mobile communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocols TCP IP . The electronic device and the parking event system may be configured to use wireless protocols such as but not limited to IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and 802.11g. In some embodiments the communications path includes the appropriate cellular network that provides cellular service to the electronic device . It should be understood the path may involve communication through a network router or other intermediary system or device.

The path may include more than one protocol and signal type. The use of more than one protocol and signal type for path is desirable to promote compatibility with a wide range of network interfaces and correspondingly a wide range of configurations of the electronic device and parking event system . The use of more than one protocol and signal type for path may be used because it is typically desirable for the electronic device to be able to establish connectivity with the parking event system at a wide array of locations. It is understood that some signals are not accessible at some locations. For example a location may not have a CDMA signal available but may have an 802.11g signal available. If the path uses 802.11g signal the electronic device may only be able to obtain connectivity with the parking event system that would not be possible if the path were limited to a CDMA signal.

The second electronic device and the third electronic device may include the components and functionality disclosed herein for the first electronic device . The second electronic device may include a second data key. The third electronic device may include a third data key. In some embodiments the second electronic device and the third electronic device may include the components and functionality disclosed herein for the first electronic device . In some embodiments first second and third electronic devices may be associated with different keys. In other words the first key second key and third key may be distinct. In some embodiments more than three devices may be used.

The first electronic device may be configured to transmit and receive data through path . The data transmitted received or retrieved through path may include the transaction identifier data . The data transmitted received or retrieved through path may include the transaction identifier data . The path may include any suitable communication path as described above for the communications path . The path may be used to provide connectivity between two electronic devices. In one embodiment the transaction identifier data may be displayed on the display of the second electronic device .

The first electronic device may include a user interface UI . The first electronic device may include an interface device capable of receiving data. The interface device may include a human interface device. The interface device may include a device such as a keyboard keypad microphone or touchscreen. The interface device may be contained within or be communicatively coupled to the electronic device . In embodiments where the electronic device includes a keyboard a person may input the transaction identifier data into the electronic device using the keyboard. The first electronic device may include an audio video recognition conversion module. In some embodiments the interface device may be configured to record the transaction identifier data in an audio signal form. The electronic device may allow a person to input the transaction identifier data as audio data. The audio data may be generated by a person speaking characters or words. The characters or words may be the transaction identifier data . In some embodiments the audio data is provided by a device that outputs an audio signal using a speaker. The audio signal outputted by the device corresponds to the transaction identifier data . The first electronic device may convert the transaction identifier data into the address data .

The first electronic device may include a file input module. The file input module may be contained within or be communicatively coupled to the electronic device . The first electronic device may be configured to receive a data file. The data file may include a computer readable medium. The data file may contain the transaction identifier data . The file may contain transaction identifier data related to one or more parking transactions.

The electronic device may include a digital imaging device such as a digital camera optical reader or an optical scanner. The digital imaging device may be contained within or be communicatively coupled to the electronic device .

The electronic device may include an RFID or NFC reader. The RFID or NFC reader may be configured to receive the transaction identifier data from an RFID or NFC transmitter or chip. The electronic device may also include a RFID or NFC transmitter. The RFID or NFC transmitter may make data available to be received. The data may include the transaction identifier data . The RFID or NFC reader and or transmitter may be contained within or be communicatively coupled to the electronic device .

The electronic device may include or be communicatively coupled to a display device. The display may display images and data for the electronic device . The display may be any suitable display such as an analog or digital television a cathode ray display CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED based display an organic OLED based display a cathode ray tube CRT display. In some embodiments the display may include a touch screen through which a user may interact with the electronic device .

The electronic device may be configured to present the transaction identifier data via the display. The electronic device may be configured to present information related to the parking transaction via the display. The information may be presented with a user interface or a graphical user interface. In some embodiments the electronic device is configured to display the transaction data . The display device may be contained within or be communicatively coupled to the electronic device . 

The electronic device may include a parking management system. A parking management system refers to a machine or system that may be used to assist with a parking transaction. The parking management system may be located in a parking facility or nearby area accessible to the operator of the parking management system. Example parking management systems are the Citypal and the Strada Pay Station by Parkeon . The parking management system may be used in parking transactions configured as Pay and Display Pay by Space and Pay by Plate. The parking management system may include or be communicatively coupled to a server parking meter mechanically actuated gate or a payment kiosk.

The parking management system may be configured to be integrated with the parking management system. It is understood that the parking management system may operate independently of the present invention. That is the parking management system does not need any embodiment of the present invention to be used in a parking transaction. The parking management system may be used together with the parking event system to provide additional options to the parking provider or the customer related to the parking transaction.

In one exemplary embodiment the parking management system includes a payment kiosk server and gate system located in a parking lot. The parking management system may be communicatively coupled to an entrance and or exit gate. In some embodiments the parking management system includes a server. The parking management system may communicate with the parking event system over the path to determine the payment status for a parking transaction. The parking management system may use the address data to contact the parking event server. The parking event system communicates the payment status data to the parking management system server . The parking event server may modify the transaction data to reflect that driver has satisfied a condition of the parking transaction. The condition of the parking transaction may include completing a payment or obtaining validation from a category of business.

The transaction data may be contained upon or within the parking event storage . The transaction data may be contained upon or within a computer readable media. The transaction data includes data or information associated with the parking transaction. The transaction data may include information on the price retrieval options available to different users one or more electronic devices and their access levels a time associated with the start of the transaction a transaction number available transaction types vehicle identifier e.g. license plate number make and model color etc. type of user category of parking transaction options available to users to satisfy the parking obligations a default retrieval amount of time to perform a retrieval of the vehicle the number of parking provider employees available to provide service to the parking transaction a very important person VIP flag or indicator or customer obligation status e.g. satisfied or unsatisfied among other things The transaction data may include information related to the parking customer. The transaction data may be modified after the transaction has started. The transaction data may be modified during the parking transaction. The transaction data may be modified after the customer has turned control of the vehicle over to the parking provider. The transaction data may include data associated with the real time status of the parking transaction.

The transaction data may be modified during the parking transaction. In some embodiments the transaction data is automatically modified by the parking event server . The transaction data may be change throughout a parking transaction to reflect the real time status of the parking transaction. For example if a customer completes a payment using the first electronic device the transaction data may be modified to reflect the customer s obligation related to the parking transaction has been satisfied. For example the first electronic device may directly or indirectly transmit or cause to be transmitted an obligation satisfied confirmation or payment receipt to the parking event server . The parking event server would then modify the transaction data to reflect that the customer s obligation has been satisfied. Similarly if the customer submits a request to the parking event system for his or her vehicle to be retrieved the transaction data would be modified to indicate that such a request has been made.

The transaction identifier data may include encoded data. The transaction identifier data may be a computer readable medium. The transaction identifier data may be affixed to or printed on a tangible medium such as but not limited to a plastic or a paper based material. The transaction identifier data may be displayed on an electronic display. In one embodiment the transaction identifier data has been printed on a parking slip associated with a parking transaction. In one embodiment the transaction identifier data is an RFID or NFC signal.

The transaction identifier data may include the information included in the address data . The transaction identifier data may be in a form that may not be readily understood by the first electronic device . Thus an electronic device such as the first electronic device may decode the transaction identifier data to decode or convert it into a different form in order to obtain the electronic address data . It is understood that decoding or converting from the transaction identifier data to the address data may be accomplished by the first electronic device or by another system accessible to the electronic device . A decoding system may be accessible to the first electronic device via a network.

The first electronic device may store the transaction identifier data in its storage. The electronic device may be configured to make available the stored transaction identifier data in a human readable form or a machine readable form. In one embodiment the transaction identifier data includes a 2 d barcode. The first electronic device may photograph or otherwise optically capture the 2 d barcode which is stored in the storage of the first electronic device . The first electronic device may display the stored 2 d barcode on a display. In one embodiment the transaction identifier data is displayed on the display of the first electronic device . The second electronic device receives the transaction identifier data by the second electronic device using the attached imaging device. The second electronic device may store the received transaction identifier data in the storage of the second electronic device .

The address data includes information on the location of the parking event system . The electronic address data may be contained upon or within a computer readable media. The address data may be associated with a unique parking transaction. In some embodiments the address data may be reused. In one embodiment the address data is associated with a first parking transaction. When the first parking transaction has been completed the address data may then be used in a second parking transaction.

The address data may include information on the location of the transaction data relative to the parking event storage . The address data may include the address of the parking event server . The address data may include a Universal Resource Locator URL which could be understood and or used by the first electronic device to locate the parking event system . The address data may be used by the first electronic device establish path . The electronic address data may include an index associated with the transaction data .

The first electronic device may use the address data to locate the parking event system . The address data may include the location associated with the parking event system relative to one or more networks. In one embodiment the address data may be associated with the location of the parking event system relative to a local area network LAN or a broader network such as but not limited to the Internet.

The parking event server may be configured to manage access to the transaction data . The parking event server may be configured to associate an access level to the first electronic device . The access level determines to what extent the transaction data is available to the first electronic device . The access level of the first electronic device may determine whether the first electronic device may modify the transaction data . In some embodiments the ability to modify parameters such as price may only be permitted by devices associated with threshold access level. In some embodiments the ability to modify the transaction data to reflect that the customer s obligation has been satisfied may only be performed by devices having a threshold access level.

The parking event server may associate the unique identifier of the first electronic device with an access level to the transaction data . The association between the unique identifier of the first electronic device and an access level may be stored in the parking event storage . The association between the unique identifier of the first electronic device and the access level may be stored in the transaction data . In one embodiment the first electronic device communicates the first key to the parking event system . The parking event server may determine the access level to associate with the first electronic device and the transaction data based on the received first key. In one embodiment the parking event storage includes a list of unique identifiers. The unique identifiers are associated with electronic devices. If the unique identifier of the electronic device such as but not limited to the first electronic device is included in the list then the parking event server associated with the electronic device with an access level. In one embodiment the first electronic device communicates the unique identifier of the first electronic device to the parking event system . Based on the received unique identifier the parking event server determines the appropriate access level. In some embodiments the list of unique identifier includes all electronic devices used by a parking provider.

The parking event server may be configured to process information related to the parking transaction. The parking event server may use the transaction data to determine information related to the parking transaction. For example the parking event server may calculate the cost of the parking transaction at a specified time based on the transaction data . The parking event server may calculate the cost of the parking transaction by multiplying a rate by the amount of time associated with a transaction. The start time may be provided by the parking event server or the electronic device . The parking event server may store the then current cost of the parking transaction in the transaction data or the parking event storage . In some embodiments the cost of the parking transaction is communicated to the first electronic device .

The transaction identifier data may be in a form not readily understood by humans. In some embodiments the transaction identifier data may be in a form readily understood by the first electronic device to refer to the address data . The transaction identifier data may need to be converted or decoded to a different form in order to obtain the address data . In some embodiments the transaction identifier data may be in human readable form. For example the transaction identifier data may comprise letters number or symbols readily understood by humans. A user may input the transaction identifier data into the first electronic device . The first electronic device may need to decode the transaction identifier data into the address data .

In some embodiments the transaction identifier data may include encoded data such as but not limited to a 1 D bar code 2 D bar code QR code RFID NFC. In some embodiments the first electronic device decodes the transaction identifier data into the electronic address data .

In some embodiments the transaction identifier data may be printed on or affixed to a material. For example the transaction identifier data may be printed on a paper parking slip ticket or transaction receipt associated with a parking transaction. depict various types of tickets. Referring to a ticket is presented. The ticket may include transaction guideline data parking event server address data index data and transaction identifier data . The transaction identifier data includes a QR code. The transaction identifier data is associated with a parking transaction. An electronic device such as but not limited to the first electronic device may decode the transaction identifier data into the electronic address data . The electronic device may receive the transaction identifier data from an optical imaging device such as a camera. The transaction identifier data may be stored in the storage of the electronic device. After storing the electronic device may decode the transaction identifier data into the electronic address data . The electronic device may use address data to establish communications with the parking event system . Transaction guideline data may include information such as but not limited to price parking rules park zone location transaction number or contact information for the parking provider.

Referring to a ticket is shown. The ticket includes transaction identifier data . Transaction identifier data may be decoded to the electronic address data by an electronic device such as but not limited to the first electronic device . The ticket includes parking event location data . Parking event location data may be manually entered by a user of an electronic device that is not equipped with optical imaging device is malfunctioning or is otherwise unable to receive store or decode the transaction identifier data . The user may manually enter the parking event location data using a keyboard or other human interface device.

The parking slip may be generated prior to the parking transaction. In one embodiment a parking provider generates a plurality of parking tickets prior to the occurrence of any parking transactions. The parking tickets are then issued to customers that request a parking transaction. In one embodiment the parking slips may be generated from a printer attached to the electronic device . In one embodiment the parking slip is generated by a parking management system. The parking slip may include other data related to a parking transaction such as the transaction start time address price or parking procedure information such as the payment procedure or hours of operation related to the parking transaction. This other information related to the parking transaction may include encoded data.

The form of the transaction identifier data may be based on the potential users of the transaction identifier data. For example a 2 D barcode may be used for the transaction identifier data instead of alpha numeric characters when it is expected that the transaction identifier data will be scanned and used by an electronic device because a 2 D barcode is likely easier for a machine to read and receive thereby reducing errors. Similarly if a person is expected to read and or use the transaction identifier data directly it may be desirable for the transaction identifier data to be encoded in alpha numeric characters which is likely easier for the person to input using a keypad or other input device. Other coding formats may be utilized that facilitate accurate and reliable reading of the transaction identifier data by a machine such as the electronic device . It may be desirable for the transaction identifier data to be in a form understood by humans in case the electronic device is an older device or is malfunctioning.

The electronic device may receive the transaction identifier data over the communications path . In some embodiments the communications path may be through an optical imaging device. For example the electronic device may receive the digital image of encoded data through an optical imaging device such as a digital camera or scanner. In one embodiment the electronic device receives the digital image of the transaction identifier data .

After the transaction identifier data is received by the first electronic device the transaction identifier data may be stored and or displayed on the first electronic device . Additionally any encoded data included in the transaction identifier data may be decoded to one or more forms. The transaction identifier data is decoded from a QR code printed on a parking slip to a computer readable medium form that may be used by the electronic device to locate the relevant parking event corresponding to a parking slip or ticket. The transaction identifier data may be decoded to electronic address data . In some embodiments the transaction identifier data may be decoded to the first key corresponding to an access level.

The first electronic device may have a decoding module for decoding encoded data associated with the transaction identifier data . In one embodiment the first electronic device may transmit the encoded data to another device or system equipped with a decoding module. The other device may decode the transaction identifier data and transmit the transaction identifier data in one or more decoded forms to the first electronic device . Utilizing another device for decoding transaction identifier data may be useful if the first electronic device is an older model lacking adequate hardware or computing resources to decode the transaction identifier data . The personal computing device may receive the decoded transaction identifier data from a device equipped with a decoding module. The transaction identifier data may be stored and or displayed by the first electronic device . The transaction identifier data has been decoded it may be displayed on the display of the electronic device in its decoded form.

The electronic device may automatically initiate communications with a parking event system . The communications may be initiated once the transaction identifier data is received or stored and is in a format understood by the electronic device . The first electronic device may automatically initiate communications if the first electronic device enters the park zone based a positioning module or device included or communicatively coupled to the electronic device . The positioning module or device may be a GPS receiver.

The first electronic device may also initiate contact with the parking event system upon the user of the electronic device selecting or entering an instruction. Such a command may be inputted or selected by a person using the electronic device . Upon successful initiation of communications between the electronic device and the parking event system the first electronic device may be communicatively coupled with the parking event over communications path . Data may be exchanged between the first electronic device and the parking event system . Data may be transmitted from the first electronic device to the parking event system . Data may be transmitted from the parking event system to the first electronic device .

In some embodiments the first electronic device and the parking event may establish communications periodically during a parking transaction. It may be desirable to avoid communicative coupling to minimize the computing resources and power consumption of the electronic device and or parking event system . Thus communicative coupling between electronic device and the parking event system may be paused and subsequently re established.

The parking event system may associate received data with the particular electronic device that transmitted the data. The association may be done by using for example a username from a user associated with the electronic device an email address of the user of the electronic device the Internet Protocol IP address of the electronic device or the MAC address or electronic device or a combination thereof. The association of the data may be accomplished any identifier that uniquely identifies the electronic device . The parking event system may associate received data with a username associated with the user of the electronic device that transmitted the data. The association of the data with the electronic device may allow for easier subsequent access to transaction data .

In some embodiments the transaction identifier data received by the first electronic device may be transmitted to the parking event system . If the transaction identifier data is transmitted to the parking event system the parking event server may decode the transaction identifier data . The parking event server may then transmit the decoded data to the electronic device . The display may be in the same manner as if the user electronic device performed the decoding and display functions. This option may be used if the electronic device does not have the capability to decode the data itself such as if the electronic device lacks the capabilities of decoding a particular form of the transaction identifier data . The decoded data transmitted from the parking event server to the electronic device may also be stored on the electronic device .

The parking event server may modify the transaction data . Modification of the transaction data may be done automatically by the parking event system or presented as a display choice on the first electronic device for the user to select.

The user of the electronic device may also initiate contact with the parking event system to retrieve data associated with a parking transaction. Upon establishment of communication with the parking event server the data may be transmitted from the parking event server to the electronic device for display to the user. The data may also be stored upon the electronic device after it is received from the parking event server . The contact with the parking event server and the transmission of data from the parking event server to the electronic device may occur over path .

An electronic device such as but not limited to the first electronic device may be used to request data from the parking event system . If the electronic device is associated with the appropriate access level the parking event server will transmit the requested data to the first electronic device. In one embodiment the user of the first electronic device requests retrieval option data for the vehicle from the parking event system . The retrieval option data may be located in the transaction data . The parking event system processes the request and transmits the retrieval option data to the first electronic device . The first electronic device may receive the retrieval option data. The first electronic device may store the retrieval option data. The retrieval option data associated with one or more retrieval options may be displayed on the display of the first electronic device . The user selects a retrieval time by touching the corresponding portion of the screen. The selected retrieval time may be transmitted from the first electronic device to the parking event system . The parking event system may transmit an alert containing the retrieval data to all electronic devices associated with the transaction data . The user of the first electronic device may be able to cancel the retrieval request by submitting a cancellation request to the parking event system . If the parking provider retrieves the vehicle but the vehicle is not retrieved by the customer from a load zone the vehicle may be moved from load zone and parked by the parking provider.

Referring to a user interface is shown. User interface may include transaction information and transaction identifier data . Transaction information may include a time in time out rate fees total time among other things. Transaction information may be based on the transaction data transmitted from the parking event system to the electronic device. Transaction identifier data includes a QR code. The QR code included in the transaction identifier data may be decoded to electronic address data which would allow the electronic device to locate a parking event system associated with a parking transaction. Transaction identifier data may also be received by another electronic device by using a camera or other optical imaging device of the other electronic device.

Referring to a user interface is shown. User interface may include retrieval timer . The retrieval timer represents an estimated time until the vehicle will be available to the customer at a load zone or other retrieval area. Estimated retrieval times may be based on factors. The factors may be stored in the transaction data . The factors may include the number of employees available to provide retrieval services the number of parking transactions occurring at a given park zone a VIP customer associated with the transaction the typical retrieval time the historical retrieval time or combinations thereof among other things. The factors used to determine retrieval times may be stored in the transaction data . The time value displayed on retrieval time may correspond to an estimated retrieval time minus the time surpassed since the retrieval was requested. The time value displayed on retrieval time may correspond to a requested retrieval time minus the time surpassed since the retrieval was requested.

Referring to a user interface is shown. User interface may include retrieval options buttons and payment options button and transaction information . Retrieval options buttons may correspond to retrieval times. Retrieval times may be determined as discussed above in relation to . Clicking the ASAP button will request that the parking event system add the ticket to next available time slot in the next available five minute block of time. Clicking ASAP may provide a retrieval timer based on the estimated retrieval time for the ASAP button. Transaction information displays the date time in time out rate fees total time and balance. Transaction information is based data received from the parking event system . If selected payment option button will transmit a request to the parking event system for payment options.

At block a vehicle has been left in the park zone . The vehicle may be placed in the park zone by a customer to a parking transaction or provider of the parking service associated with the parking transaction. The vehicle may remain in the park zone or it may be moved from the park zone to another location by the parking provider if the park zone is an unload zone. At block the parking event system may be initialized. The parking event system may be initialized when the second electronic device or another electronic device with a threshold access level initiates communication with the parking event system . At block the transaction identifier data is presented to the customer. The transaction identifier data may be presented via ticket or an electronic display or an RFID or NFC transmitter among other things. The transaction identifier data may need to be decoded before it may be understood by the electronic device . At block the customer may establish communication with the parking event system using the transaction identifier data. At block the customer may select a vehicle retrieval request using the electronic device which is communicated to the parking event system . The parking event system then transmits the retrieval request information to an electronic device associated with retrieval. The instructions used to contact the electronic device associated with retrieval may be in the transaction data . The electronic device associated with retrieval will alert the staff to the retrieval request. At block the customer completes payment using the electronic device or otherwise satisfies customer parking transaction obligation related to the parking transaction. Customer may satisfy customer parking transaction obligation by obtaining validation either by entering a validation code which is then indicated in the transaction data or by allowing a provider of validation to scan. Various systems and methods disclosed herein may be used to update transaction data to reflect that the customer parking transaction obligation has been satisfied. At block payment is verified. In some embodiments payment is verified by the scanning of the ticket by the parking provider using an electronic device configured to communicate with the parking event system having parking provider credentials. At block the parking event session is ended. The parking event session may be ended if no customer communications have occurred regarding the transaction data . For example when the parking event session is ended the transaction identifier data may no longer be valid to obtain transaction data . At block the vehicle is returned to the customer. Alternatively exemplary method may provide an alternative when the communication is not established between an electronic device and the parking event system . At block the customer requests retrieval of the vehicle in person to a parking staff. At block the parking staff retrieves the vehicle. At block the parking provider staff processes in person the customer parking transaction obligation. Block may occur after a customer has initiated a requested using the electronic device. For example the parking transaction staff takes payment from the customer validates the transaction or verifies validation provided by another entity such as a restaurant patronized by the customer.

At block a vehicle enters the parking zone . The vehicle may be driven by a customer valet or otherwise be moved into the park zone . At block a slip is issued related to a parking transaction. The slip includes transaction identifier data . The slip may be issued by a parking provider handing a slip to the customer. The slip may be issued by a parking management system dispensing a slip to the customer. The slip includes transaction identifier data . The transaction data associated with the transaction identifier data may not be specified at the time the slip is provided to the customer. In some embodiments the transaction identifier data is specified after the slip is issued. At block the transaction data is modified or configured by one or more electronic devices such as but not limited to the first electronic device and the second electronic device . The transaction data may be modified or configured by changing the transaction type data of the transaction data to reflect one of a valet parking lot parking garage or VIP transaction. The transaction data may be modified by or configured by setting a price. The transaction data may be modified by or configured by selecting a transaction time. In some embodiments the transaction data may be modified by a user of an electronic device with a threshold access level. In some embodiments the transaction data may be modified by the customer after the customer is in possession of the slip. In some embodiments the parking provider updates the transaction type data of transaction data . This allows the parking provider and the customer to customize the parking transaction by modifying the transaction data after the parking transaction has begun.

At block the slip is presented to a parking management system. At block the customer obligation associated with the parking transaction is calculated. The obligation may be calculated by a parking management system or the parking event system . The customer obligation associated with a parking transaction may refer to a parking fee or validation requirement. At block the customer satisfies the obligation for the parking transaction by making payment using the electronic device. Payment may be completed through a parking management system or made in person to a parking provider. At block the vehicle approaches the exit of the park zone . At block the customer obligation is verified. At block the vehicle is permitted to leave the area. The vehicle may be permitted to leave the area by a gate being lifted or a barrier being removed thereby allowing the vehicle to exit the park zone .

At block transaction identifier data may be received by an electronic device. Various methods of receiving the transaction identifier data may be utilized as mentioned above. At block the transaction identifier data may be decoded into electronic address data and or index data by the electronic device. At block the electronic device directs communication to the parking event system based on the electronic address data and or the index data . At block the parking event system determines communicates instructions for the user to obtain the preferred application compatible with the electronic device. The instructions may be presented on the display of the electronic device to the user of the electronic device. Block occurs if the parking event system determines the electronic device is not equipped with a preferred application. The preferred application may be an app well suited to performing the steps of the present invention. In some embodiments the electronic device is an Apple portable electronic device running on iOS and the preferred application may be a specific app available in the iTunes store.

At block the electronic device communicates a data token to the parking event system . At block the parking event system authenticates the data token and associates an access level to the electronic device. The access level associated with the electronic device may be based on the token. The access level is stored in the parking event storage . The access level may be stored in the transaction data . The access level associated with the electronic device determines the amount and type of transaction data that will be available to the electronic device. At block the electronic device transmits a request for data from the parking event system . It is understood that some or all of blocks and may be transmitted at substantially the same time or in different sequences. At block the parking event system responds to the request for information by transmitting the requested data consistent with the access level to the requesting electronic device.

Different types of implementations or hardware and software configurations can be used in the system and the methods disclosed herein. The methods disclosed herein are not limited to any specific hardware software configuration for the system or any of its components.

With the invention of the automobile came the need to find a place to park it. Finding a space to park that s convenient and affordable is a challenge faced by every driver on the planet. The parking system and technology platform embodied here neatly bypasses this problem short circuiting the need for consumers to think about parking and getting them onto the sidewalk or to their destination quickly.

This parking system s approach augments the limited parking inventory of busy commercial and urban areas unlocking unused capacity that s wasted by poor location access or restrictions. Consumers skip the chore of searching for a space or wandering through a parking structure and go directly to their destination where a drop off zone is ready to receive their car. When it s time to leave their vehicle is prepaid and waiting curbside where they left it or wherever they need it to be.

One embodiment of this parking system could constitute a nationwide network of branded operator licensees who offer the parking system as an exciting and convenient alternative to traditional parking modalities. The parking system s end to end solution provides operators with the software tools and cloud based infrastructure to maximize the efficiency and utilization of any parking facility to align supply at one location with demand at another and to offer consumers a seamless premium pickup drop off service that they can control on their smartphone.

The parking system can collect detailed analytics about guests travel and spending habits at parking system locations as well as performance metrics about operators and employees. The parking system will know who travels where when and for how long. The parking system will also know the moment guests arrive at a given location and know the moment they want to leave. This actionable data will be used to power a realtime engagement platform that will A provide discovery services to consumers helping them find places to dine stay and play and reward loyalty and B create a marketplace that restaurants hotels casinos and others can use to buy or bid on realtime leads. Insurance carriers will value the transparency made available by The Parking System s performance analytics allowing underwriters to price operator liability coverage more accurately potentially weeding out problem operators while lowering insurance costs for the safest performers.

For operators the parking system provides a number of benefits including 1 improving operational efficiencies i.e. lowering operating and employee costs increasing parking space utilization and providing mobile transaction processing 2 increasing revenue potential by driving more volume or increasing ticket prices for a drop off pick up service and 3 increasing customer satisfaction with premium trusted service. An embodiment that includes easy to use smartphone applications provide employees with a simple interface to automate what have historically been manual processes queue management damage assessment claims employee scheduling and transaction processing . Rich real time data metrics empower management to monitor every aspect of the business while keeping overhead low. The parking system s likely users are grouped into three primary categories service providers already running a valet operation looking to improve operational efficiencies owners of a parking lots or garages looking to improve operational efficiencies and utilization increase revenue potential and improve customer satisfaction and standalone hospitality venues hotels casinos shopping malls airports event facilities etc. looking to provide a premium service to customers and to increase engagement with them from the moment they arrive to the moment they depart. Users of the parking system will have flexibility to choose where and what type of parking areas to utilize and can fill them to maximum levels. Since consumers will never visit them these facilities don t need to be consumer friendly opening up a much larger array of potential inventory than would be available otherwise. Private lots that would go unused after business hours or garages located in inconvenient areas may also be used further increasing inventory often at bargain rates.

Various embodiments of the parking system makes it possible to run a parking service at a variety of scales serving a single small bistro an entire commercial district or even the largest hotel casino. Parking system smartphone apps provide a simple on site interface to powerful back end systems that provide automated request and queue management integrated labor management scheduling and transaction processing.

Rich data metrics help keep performance high and overhead low giving managers the information they need to minimize mistakes and accidents while reducing labor costs. Actionable data from consumers who opt in can be harvested from parking transactions allowing the parking system to build detailed consumer profiles that can provide valuable highly targeted realtime location based leads for sale to the highest bidder.

For Consumers the parking system can offer unparalleled convenience and low friction. Consumers simply drop their car at the parking zone serving the business or area they re visiting. At departure consumers use their smartphone to issue payment of parking fees and summon their vehicle. There are no lines to wait in and their car is brought to them wherever they are even if they ve walked down the street grab a coffee. By using historical data based on stored consumer profiles the parking system can offer targeted rewards and discovery notifications to influence consumer s decisions and steer them towards offers events and promotions based on their location and tastes. By reducing friction on both sides of the parking equation and helping to bridge the gap between parking supply and demand the parking system can improve the way people park.

The vast majority of valet service providers are unplugged their operations relying on paper tickets and time sheets cash payments and honest employees. Even if a manager uses a computer in the office to do the books only the largest and most high volume valet locations typically at hotels have access to electronic tools and POS systems. Managers have no easy means to ensure revenue control accept credit card payments or engage with their customers in a meaningful way. Moreover managers are data starved with no way to collect high quality strategic and performance metrics to help them operate efficiently and grow their business. Most partners will achieve savings beyond 15 through risk mitigation access to analytics and efficiencies gleaned from consolidation of labor and capacity resources. Assisted or valet only parking facilities that do not allow customers to self park but instead staff attendants to maximize utilization of their limited space they may bury a vehicle several cars deep in order to pack the garage absolutely full would benefit from an embodiment of the parking system. Assisted garages are common in all dense urban cites employing double or tandem parking techniques or utilizing mechanical lifts to increase capacity.

It is typical for assisted garages to suffer extreme demand spikes during peak hours which creates painful delays for customers and potentially risky rush behavior by employees. The parking system s queue management system assisted garages have a means to flatten demand spikes and greatly reduce gridlock. Rather than guests arriving at will en masse they receive a delivery time on their smartphone allowing them to arrive just in time to pick up their car. Reduced gridlock relieves the demand pressure on staff allowing them to process only as many vehicles as they can safely manage at a time.

Non prime parking locations or facilities are another candidate an embodiment of the parking system. Here operators might be struggling to fill their facilities for a variety of reasons e.g. bad location or intense competition . The parking systems can offer a drop off pick up service as an easy way to win over customers and fill up unused spots. Additionally a park zone can be located anywhere not just in front of the facility. For example a park zone could be on a main street one or two blocks away from the parking facility where there is more exposure to traffic. The non prime garage can create a virtual entrance to their facility at a prime location with nothing more than a few runners some signage and the parking system. For prime facilities with peak hour queues the parking system provides a means to reduce or eliminate bottlenecks instead of waiting in line to enter a parking facility a driver can simply drop his her car off curb side and walk away .

Parking operators have high fixed costs and are extremely motivated to fill their facilities to maximum levels. Just like hotel rooms and airplane seats parking inventory is highly perishable with unfilled parking spots representing a lost revenue opportunity. The parking system s drop off pick up service will attract additional customers looking for premium service and maximum convenience. Additionally and especially for non prime facilities park zones can be located offsite to draw in customers from high traffic areas. Standalone valet parking operators can source parking inventory flexibly using private business lots or other non traditional hidden parking inventory that may less costly and would otherwise go unused. The owner of an office building near a busy entertainment district could monetize their unused parking at night by leasing to a participating parking system operator partner with no need to make the lot consumer friendly since only parking attendants will be using the space.

As described earlier existing parking operations are often highly inefficient and lack access to smart technology and rich data. Existing technology products geared towards the parking industry tend to focus on clunky expensive hardware solutions that incrementally relieve a single pain point here or there rather than a more holistic approach. Using the parking system employees and managers are provided with proprietary tools that lower costs and streamline operations by helping to manage labor consolidate parking inventory process payments and monitor and hence respond to performance.

Operators gain a competitive advantage if they can offer a consistent differentiated high quality service. Premium services attract premium consumers potentially luring them away from competing non premium providers. Moreover it s possible to charge more for a premium service. However the parking system s low cost to implement and money saving features make it possible to offer a premium service without raising rates beyond what the market will bear. Through the use of its technology platform and network The Parking System captures important data about consumers and their parking and spending patterns. This is especially relevant to Hospitality and Shopping Venues who can integrate this information with their other CRM systems. Operators using The Parking System can strengthen their relationships with nearby or partnered Hospitality and Shopping Venues when they tap into The Parking System s consumer profiling and data collection capabilities. As they become reliant on this data their need to maintain a longterm relationship with a The Parking System enabled parking operator grows. With The Parking System s ability to engage and influence consumer behavior in realtime by sending rewards promotions or notifications in response to behavior operator partners could tap into new sources of revenue by selling access to these systems to relevant restaurants hotels nightclubs or other businesses in the vicinity of their parking operations whose customers utilize their parking services.

Operators can greatly reduce risks of theft fraud and accidents by using The Parking System. The Parking System s revenue control features demand normalization vehicle condition logging and performance monitoring features can greatly reduce the risks faced by parking operations every day. In the future The Parking System may be able to offer a reduced rate liability insurance program exclusively to its network of licensees.

Self parking in a crowded garage or parking lot can be a time consuming and stressful experience. Consumers must decide which facility to use locate the entrance navigate through maze like rows of vehicles to find a spot figure out how the payment system works do I take my ticket with me or leave it in my car locate the exit and remember where they left their vehicle so they can find it again. All of this can add minutes and sometimes even hours to a trip. Traditional valet parking can offer a better experience than self parking but is plagued by its own set of serious downsides is valet even available is the operator trustworthy will they take good care of my vehicle do they only accept cash how much should I tip how long will I have to wait around in the rain for them to bring my car back What if there s a long line The Parking System delivers on the promise of convenience offered by traditional valet parking while making the process seamless trustworthy and consistent. Guests can request their car be brought to the location of their choice within a defined radius from the comfort of their dinner table theater seat or place at the blackjack table. They know when their vehicle will be ready and can meet it curbside. Payment can happen automatically via a saved credit card on file or with a quick swipe at the Parking System podium.

The Parking System s drop off pick up service eliminates all of the stress associated with parking in an unknown dangerous parking facility or with an unfamiliar valet operation. When drivers see the Parking System in operation they know they re getting premium service from a trusted provider.

Drivers can locate any operator within the Parking System s network on their mobile phones navigation systems or driverless cars. Additionally transaction processing is seamless and eliminates the need to provide cash or run a credit card.

The Parking System s technology platform consists of several components. One component is a web based application suite for The Parking System s operator partners that provides the means to configure and monitor stations and parking zones schedule labor generate reports and review performance statistics. The configuration data input via web based application suite the parking event server s behavior for the needs of each operator partner.

Another component is the Operations Apps. The operations apps are geared solely towards operators providing on site access to the parking event server s set of parking management features including a terminal designed to give runners a separate view of the parking event server s queue and allow them to claim vehicle drop off and pick up tasks as they are scanned into the system by the lead manager.

Another component is the Parking Data Communications System. shows a block diagram of a parking data communications system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The Parking Data Communications System may include among other things a Transaction Processor a first electronic device a second electronic device a parking event server a Dataset that includes among other things data relating to Fees User Accounts Locations and other data related to the Park Zone or Station . The Parking Data Communications System may include an Encoded Token which contains a Transaction Data Identifier and User Class Data . The consumer apps provide an elegant interface to request vehicle retrieval and pay parking fees. The consumer apps also enable drivers to locate participating parking system operator in a location of their choosing. Lastly the consumer apps allow the consumer to automatically request retrieval of their vehicle to their current location and to automatically transact payment with a stored payment profile via the Transaction Processor .

The Parking Data Communications system includes a secure Encoded Token that allows any object or location to be tied to a corresponding Dataset within the parking event server . By decoding the encoded token and transmitting the User Class Data and Transaction Data Identifier for example by scanning an optically encoded version of the encoded token users can access and interact with the associated data attributes contained in the Dataset the Electronic Device or including transacting payment with Transaction Processor for associated Fees contained in Dataset . Paths and show how data communications may flow between the various components of the Parking Data Communications system . Dashed lines indicate the possibility of a one way communication flow if for example the encoded token is embodied in a physical passive object that isn t capable of independent transmission such as a printed ticket.

Another component is the Parking Event Server which manages event queuing data storage and drives the Parking Data Communications System. Since parking patrons often arrive and depart at similar times e.g. morning evening for commuters at garages dinner time at restaurants traditional parking garages lots and valet stations are subject to drastic spikes in demand. To address this The Parking Event Server s queue acts as a buffer to normalize spikes in demand smooth operations and minimize consumer dissatisfaction. The Parking Event Server s queue divides up time into discrete blocks. An operator specifies the maximum number of retrieval requests their park zone is equipped to handle in any block based on staffing availability distance to the parking zone weather conditions etc. . When all the request slots in a block have been filled new requests are automatically pushed into the next block. This results in a flattening of the demand curve and smooth predictable flow volume. The Parking Event Server also give the lead manager operator a centralized data repository that tracks the status of all currently active tickets Transaction Data Identifiers and Encoded Tokens providing a birds eye view of the entire operation and enabling informed decision making that is accessible via the web based application suite or the operations apps. With the information stored in the Parking Event Server parking providers may interact with tickets in the queue via the operations apps modify the ticket s data and push notifications to the consumer apps about vehicle status in realtime. To further help with operations The Parking Event Server can push automated notifications to The Operations Apps that alert parking staff when new requests arrive or a vehicle is overdue for delivery.

The Parking Event Server Queue opens the door to innovative dynamic pricing options as well. Since The Parking Event Server stores detailed records of every transaction modeling consumer demand for particular blocks is straightforward. The Parking Event Server can accommodate variable pricing schemes to optimize revenue based on block demand. This is an especially attractive option for operators that serve venues with especially concurrent customer arrival and exit time theaters arenas etc. . There is little doubt that some customers would gladly pay a considerable premium for a vehicle to be ready right as a concert or sporting event has ended rather than having to wait.

A parking facility ticket is typically comprised of one or more stubs which can include a valet stub which is attached to the vehicle keys a window stub placed on the parked car and a guest stub used by the consumer to claim the car at the podium. This ticket can be encoded with one or more Transaction Data Identifiers allowing them to reference a Dataset stored on the Parking Event Server. A ticket encoded with these Transactional Data Identifiers functions as an encoded token that can be compatible with The Parking System. shows a block diagram of a Transactional Data Identifier in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The Parking System introduces a distinct Transactional Data Identifier that can be associated with an encoded token. For example the Transactional Data Identifier could be encoded to be optically scannable such as a QR code and printed on a ticket stub. The encoded token would now serve as an access point to the relevant Dataset stored in The Parking Event Server. A valet or consumer simply scans a the encoded token with a camera equipped smart device. The encoded token is decoded revealing the Transactional Data Identifier which can include a URL an encoding type a Transactional Data Identifier Type a Secret Key and a Dataset Identifier and any other data needed to access the Dataset stored on the Parking Event Server. The encoding type indicates to The Parking Event Server what type of encoding is being utilized. The Transactional Data Identifier Type uses alpha numeric values to denote a class level to the Transactional Data Identifier . The Secret Key is a security feature which prevents snooping and spoofing of the Ticket Data Identifier . The Dataset Identifier identifies the relevant dataset location or address on The Parking Event Server.

The Parking System can help mitigate the risks inherent in providing parking service. The Parking System spreads out valet demand in time by queuing vehicle retrieval requests in a controlled sequence that is aligned with labor resources. Valet attendants experience a more consistent demand curve and less pressure to deliver vehicles quickly which results in less running fewer accidents fewer injuries. Management can review location volume and demand in real time allowing allocation of labor resources dynamically to reduce congestion and attendant stress. Management can identify emerging demand trends and adjust staffing to compensate. This results in the possibility of smart allocation of labor resources early warning of changing demand trends understaffing prevention minimized congestion and fewer accidents.

The Parking System provides a simple means to communicate parking and retrieval requests from guests or employees at a park zone to staff stationed at parking areas or other remote locations. This is less prone to communication errors than other communications methods such as using radios. The valets are less likely to make mistakes and subsequent rushing to correct them. Labor resources may be allocated more efficiently.

The Parking System offers accurate computerized employee time clocking that can assist validation of workers compensation claims. The Parking System can replace paper time sheets yielding precise labor hour and location tracking.

The Parking System can collect and store detailed employee performance data that helps managers identify risky behavior and training deficiencies. This allows comparison of actual performance statistics to a pre determined par that is calculated to minimize risk. Consistent sub par or above par performance highlights behavioral or training problems that may increase risk. Managers can identify problem employees and risk prone locations or situations before accidents happen. Continued monitoring of performance metrics guides formulation of best practices. Rich data collection lets managers analyze contributing factors and make changes to performance pars to prevent future incidents.

Accurate vehicle counting keeps managers apprised of potential garage over crowding a contributor to accidents. Detailed volume and flow metrics provide data for ongoing risk assessment. Managers can ensure that garage space is filled to safe capacities and know when more capacity is needed. They can prevent accidents and damage to vehicles due to overcrowding situations and identify emerging volume and capacity trends to prevent high risk situations.

The Parking System can include an incident reporting interface that guides workers through incident response procedures helping them maintain calm and to collect consistent time stamped data including photographs in a format approved by insurance carriers. Incident reports provide an accurate record of events and damage minimizing disputes errors and fraud and minimize reliance on hazy memories hearsay or other unreliable sources of information.

Parking attendants can manually photograph existing damage on vehicles when they arrive at the park zone. All images are timestamped geolocated and permanently associated with Transaction Data Identifier on the Parking Event Server. This will help prevent fraudulent damage claims and provide hard data to dispute damage claims.

Safety alerts and reminders can be sent to attendants and managers based on preset criteria to reinforce training and best practices. Criteria could include high volumes time of day or inclement weather. If data show accidents are more likely during a particular day of the week or part of the year alerts could be used to reinforce training and encourage best practices. If bad weather is expected automated alerts could provide safety advice or other guidance to prevent problems.

Managers could use data stored on the Parking Event Server to monitor the routes used by attendants to move vehicles between park zones and parking areas and determine which are safest.

Analysis of system wide performance data could be used to predict when and in what situations accidents are most likely making it possible to predict when extra precautions should be taken.

