---

title: Automatic content retrieval based on location-based screen tags
abstract: Systems and methods automatically obtain contents and display the contents on location-specific display screens, based on content attributes associated with the screens. Associating content attributes (“tags”) with the screens allows administrators to specify the types of contents desired for display on the screens. For example, an establishment that caters to customers of a particular demographic (such as 21-27 year old singles, families with children, fans of rock-and-roll music, “bikers,” sports fans or ice cream lovers) may associate one or more content attributes (such as “dating,” “Disney,” “Led Zeppelin,” or “Red Sox”) with its display screen. The system then automatically obtains contents based on the attribute(s) and displays the contents on the screen. Patrons with mobile telephones or web-based users may send text messages for display on the screen or play interactive games displayed on the screen, as described in the incorporated patent application. However, even absent such activity, the disclosed systems and methods populate the screen with potentially ever-changing contents, thereby keeping the screen “fresh” and avoiding a situation known as the “ghost town” effect. The system may obtain the contents to be displayed from a variety of sources. For example, Twitter messages (“Tweets”) that contain or are otherwise associated (such as via “hashtags”) with a content attribute of a screen may be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08880649&OS=08880649&RS=08880649
owner: Monster Patents, LLC
number: 08880649
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131220
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 556 394 filed Sep. 9 2009 titled Automatic Content Retrieval Based on Location Based Screen Tags now U.S. Pat. No. 8 615 565 issued Dec. 24 2013 and this application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 095 313 filed Sep. 9 2008 titled Automatic Content Retrieval Based on Location Based Screen Tags the entire contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes. In addition the entire contents of PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2005 040186 titled A System and Method for Interactive Marketing filed Nov. 4 2005 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 624 712 filed Nov. 4 2004 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 031 332 titled Apparatus and Methods for Associating a User s Activity in Relation to a Physical Location with a Virtual Community filed February 25 and PCT Patent Application No. PCT US09 35146 titled Apparatus and Methods for Associating a User s Activity in Relation to a Physical Location with a Virtual Community filed Feb. 25 2009 are all hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

The present invention relates to virtual community web sites sometimes called social networking web sites and more particularly to technology that associates a user s activity in relation to a physical location with a virtual community.

It is known in the prior art to provide social networking web sites which include www.facebook.com and www.myspace.com and www.dodgeball.com. The last web site permits social interaction using a mobile telephone in relation to the web site.

An embodiment of the invention provides a computer implemented method of displaying contents selected based on a location of a location specific display screen. At least one content attribute is associated with the display screen. Contents are automatically obtained over a computer network. The contents are based on at least one of the at least one content attribute associated with the display screen. The obtained contents are displayed on the display screen.

Displaying the obtained contents on the display screen may involve displaying the obtained contents on a display screen coupled via a computer to a wide area network a display screen of a jukebox a display screen of an interactive game system a display screen of a point of sale kiosk or a display screen coupled to a private television distribution network.

Optionally the contents displayed on the screen may be made available via the Internet as a web page.

Associating the at least one content attribute with the display screen may include associating a plurality of content attributes with the display screen.

Each of the plurality of content attributes may be selected from a set consisting of location of the screen venue type of the location of the screen a demographic characteristic of an expected viewer of the screen and a message topic.

Associating the at least one content attribute with the display screen may include receiving a message sent by a user to an address associated with the screen. The message may identify the at least one content attribute.

Receiving the message may include receiving a message sent by the user from a mobile telephone or receiving a message sent by the user from an Internet connected computer where the message traverses at least a portion of the Internet.

Associating the at least one content attribute with the display screen may include accepting a user specified content attribute via an administrative interface and associating the user specified content attribute with the display screen.

Optionally or alternatively associating the at least one content attribute with the display screen may include automatically identifying the content attribute. The content attribute may be identified based on content of at least one message already displayed on the display screen or based on content of at least one message to be displayed on the display screen.

Associating the at least one content attribute with the display screen may include receiving information descriptive of an activity currently taking place at the location of the display screen. Receiving information descriptive of an activity currently taking place may include receiving automatically generated information from a game system or receiving automatically generated information about a song being played by a jukebox.

Automatically obtaining contents may include automatically obtaining additional information about the song being played by the jukebox such as information about other locations where the song is currently being played or information about people who are currently playing the song in other locations or information about people who have indicated an interest in the song or in an artist who performed the song.

Automatically obtaining the contents over the computer network may include automatically obtaining the contents via the Internet from a social networking system a news data system a classified advertisement system an entertainment information system a syndicated data feed system or an advertisement system.

Automatically obtaining the contents over the computer network may include automatically querying a computer system via the Internet for the contents.

Automatically obtaining the contents over the computer network may include subscribing to a data feed from a computer system and receiving contents automatically sent by the computer system in response to the subscription.

Optionally a subset of the obtained contents may be automatically selected according to a rule base. A selected subset of the obtained contents may be displayed the on the display screen.

The rule base may at least statistically favor displaying contents that were generated specifically for the display screen over contents that were not specifically generated for the display screen. The rule base may at least statistically favor displaying contents that are associated with the display screen over contents that are not associated with the display screen. The rule base may at least statistically favors displaying contents that are associated with the location of the display screen over contents that are not associated with the location of the display screen.

Optionally other contents displayed on another location specific display screen may be obtained and the other contents may be displayed on the display screen.

Automatically obtaining the other contents or displaying the other contents may be performed such that the other contents are selected according to at least one rule or such that at least of the at least one rule disfavors selecting contents associated with a predetermined set of other location specific display screens.

Displaying the obtained contents on the display screen may include displaying the obtained contents for a predetermined amount of time or for an amount of time based at least in part on other contents displayed on the screen. The amount of time may be based at least in part on a number of other contents displayed on the screen.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a computer implemented method of displaying contents on a location specific display screen. Contents are automatically selected based on the location of the display screen. The contents are sent for display on the display screen. In addition the contents are made available as a web page.

Selecting the contents may include selecting the contents based on at least one content attribute associated with the display screen.

Yet another embodiment of the invention provides a computer implemented method of displaying contents on a location specific display screen. A message sent by a user to an address associated with the screen is received. The message contains contents. The contents received in the message are displayed on the display screen.

An embodiment of the invention provides a computer implemented method for providing interactive displays. At least one web page is made available from an IP address for serving over a first network. The web page is made available to a plurality of network addressable screens. Each screen is addressable via the first network so as to provide content particularized to each of the screens. In addition the web page is made available to other computers coupled to the first network and in communication with the IP address. Commands received over a second network from user communication devices are translated and the translated commands are used to affect content on the screens. Each user communication device separately affects content on a selected one or more of the screens. Content included with one of the received commands is displayed on the selected one or more screens for a predetermined amount of time.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a system for displaying contents selected based on a location of a location specific display screen. The system includes a plurality of location specific display screens. An administrative user interface is configured to receive at least one content attribute. A server is coupled to the plurality of location specific display screens and to the administrative user interface. The server is configured to store the received at least one content attribute. The server is also configured to associate the received at least one content attribute with at least one of the plurality of location specific display screens and to automatically obtain contents over a computer network. The contents are based on at least one of the at least one received content attribute. The server is also configured to display the obtained contents on the at least one of the plurality of location specific display screens.

As used in this description and the accompanying claims the following terms shall have the meanings indicated unless the context otherwise requires 

Systems and methods are described for automatically obtaining contents and displaying the contents on location specific display screens based on content attributes associated with the screens. Associating content attributes tags with the screens allows administrators to specify the types of contents desired for display on the screens. For example an establishment that caters to customers of a particular demographic such as 21 27 year old singles families with children fans of rock and roll music bikers sports fans or ice cream lovers may associate one or more content attributes such as dating Disney Led Zeppelin or Red Sox with its display screen. The system then automatically obtains contents based on the attribute s and displays the contents on the screen. Patrons with mobile telephones or web based users may send text messages for display on the screen or play interactive games displayed on the screen as described in the incorporated patent application. However even absent such activity the disclosed systems and methods populate the screen with potentially ever changing contents thereby keeping the screen fresh and avoiding a situation known as the ghost town effect. The system may obtain the contents to be displayed from a variety of sources. For example Twitter messages Tweets that contain or are otherwise associated such as via hashtags with a content attribute of a screen may be displayed.

An exemplary system includes a a plurality of location based display screens each of which can be associated tagged with content selection information and b a server that i automatically retrieves and or is fed content based on the tags and that ii causes each screen to display at least selected portions of the content that is retrieved fed for the screen. The content may include text still images videos etc. The screen may also display contents typically text that are sent to the screen by users of mobile telephones ex. via text message and by users of Internet connected computers ex. via e mail . The tagging may include expected demographics of viewers of the screen type of venue ex. bar club ice cream parlor etc. of the screen desired content type ex. sports politics ice cream Led Zeppelin etc. for the screen etc. The content may be retrieved fed from Internet based sources such as social networks ex. Twitter and Facebook RSS feeds advertisement servers news services or other sources ex. CNN.com and Craigslist.com . The tagging may be performed by an administrator of the screen. Optionally or alternatively a user of the system may send a text message e mail message or the like identifying a screen and containing a command to add or remove a tag to from the screen. Optionally or alternatively tags may be added or removed automatically such as in response to activity on a game system or a jukebox co located with the screen ex. based on the current game being played on the game system or the current song being played by the jukebox . Because each screen is in a fixed location ex. Toscanini s ice cream in Central Square Cambridge Mass. the contents selected based on the tagging are directed to the particular location and therefore to an expected audience of the particular demographic.

Such content selection and delivery enables advertisers for example to target audiences without knowing a priori where those audiences will be located or when the audiences will be available. In other words the advertisers may simply specify attributes for their advertisements and the system delivers the advertisements where and when appropriate audiences are identified. The system also accommodates shifts in time and location of audiences in that the screen tags may automatically expire after predetermined periods of time and fresh possibly different attributes may then be associated with the screens. Such a dynamic system accommodates an establishment that caters to one type of customer during one part of the day or week and caters to a different type of customer during a different part of the day or week.

The embodiment of integrates these facilities relative to one or more physical locations. In a representative physical location is shown as out of home location . In this embodiment we associate a dynamic collection of data with the location and to access the dynamic collection of data associated with the location we apply a logical identifier that we call a loca which is unique for the specific location. In other words each physical location integrated into the system has a unique logical identifier that is a unique loca . The ultimate repository of the data associated with the location may be the data storage . In the present embodiment the user may therefore employ the personal communication device to access information about the location itself and as we shall see to communicate with others who have indicated their presence at the location .

Turning now to the right side of we see a representative web page associated both with a user of the virtual community web site and also associated with a physical location this web page relies on data stored in data storage . The virtual community web page identifies the name of the virtual community with banner and includes a photograph avatar or icon of the user and provides a user name and a hyperlink to user designated Friends of the user who are also members of the virtual community. Under the LocaModa banner is provided a listing of hyperlinks to proxies for locations that the user has identified as favorites Fave Places and that are in data storage . Here Joe s Bar has been highlighted and accordingly information concerning this location is provided. Immediately to the right of the listing of hyperlinks is a picture or icon representing Joe s bar as well as text specifying the loca logical identifier for that location used in sending messages from a user s personal communication device relating to the location. Next presence information is provided listing those individuals who are Friends of the user who have additionally made themselves known in relation to the location s proxy via messaging on their personal communication devices. Photographs avatars or icons of the individuals are also provided. A region of the web page is devoted to activities at the location and here displayed is activity of the jukebox for example at Joe s Bar. The juke box is shown to be accessed by a user using the user s personal communication device by sending a message to music joesbar. The region also displays the music last played the most popular artist and the playlist identifier. Regions and of the web page include advertising content and this content may be customized if desired based on profile data for the location whose hyperlink has been invoked. In other words the advertisement could relate to bars in other cities other hot spots in the vicinity of the location etc. Customization can also be based on the user profile data. Region includes promotion information specific to the location and here the offer is 2 for 1 beer. 

The platform includes appropriate messaging services by which the platform communicates with the services . The platform also includes application services . The platform also includes location services and user services . The location services accept store and provide information about physical locations and their corresponding proxies. This information may include presence information i.e. information about individuals who are present at the physical locations or logged in to the locations or their proxies. Users log in by sending messages to the proxies. Also included is information about activities taking place or scheduled to take place at the physical locations and profile information about the physical location and its proxy such as street address telephone number short code to which messages are sent links to fans and the like.

The user information contains presence information such as the location s to which a user is logged in a physical location where the user is physically present and the like. The user information also includes activity information such as activities the user is interested in or is participating in. Profile information includes name interests age and the like.

When a message such as a text message arrives from a user s mobile telephone the message metadata typically includes the sender s telephone number. If the user s telephone number is stored in a user s social network entry the system may query the social network with the user s telephone number to obtain information about the user such as the user s name nickname image avatar home city etc. and display some or all of this information along with a text message game move or other contents sent by the user. Similarly if the user registered with a jukebox and provided his her telephone number when the user logs on to the jukebox the system may use the telephone number associated with the jukebox user to identify the user and query the user s social network record or update the user s social network such as Twitter record to indicate the song the user is currently playing on the jukebox.

In general once the system identifies a user such as by the user s telephone number the system may obtain information about the user such as from the user s social network record. The system may aggregate this information with similarly obtained information about other users to determine or refine a demographic profile of patrons of the establishment where a corresponding screen is located. Thus the system may maintain a dynamic profile of the establishment. This profile may be used to specify or alter content attributes associated with the screen and thereby determine or influence contents such as advertisements displayed on the screen.

Contexts in which embodiments may be advantageously used are not limited to bars and ice cream parlors nor to video display screens. For example an offer such as 2 for 1 popcorn may be displayed on a projection screen in a movie theater along with a screen specific short code to which a user may send a text message in order to take advantage of the offer. The received telephone number of the user s telephone may then be used to identify the user as attending a particular showing of a particular movie. This information may be used to target the user with advertising deemed to be consistent with the movie genre etc. In general location specific screens and as in the case of the movie screen time specific screens may thus be used to identify users who find the screens contents or location of interest.

A presentation layer may include a web application or a Flash application being executed by hardware associate with one of the interaction modes . The application may subscribe to content published by an application or in an application layer using a well known subscriber publisher model. For example an administrator may specify content attributes to the application or such as via an administrative interface not shown and the application or may then subscribe to the publisher or for the specified contents. As noted optionally or alternatively the system may automatically determine content attributes to for the application or . When appropriate contents are obtained the publisher or sends the contents to the presentation layer application or for display. The application layer applications and utilize other components in other layers and as well as data in a database as shown.

A different presentation layer application or may be used for different screen types and consequently different content attributes or parameters may be used for different screens. For example a large screen in Time Square New York may display sports related messages with a preference for pro Yankees related contents whereas screens in Boston may preferentially display pro Red Sox contents. Screens co located may display contents using similar or identical content attributes but with different display parameters such as the maximum number of message that may be simultaneously displayed depending for example on the size of the screen. Thus for example more messages may be displayed on a large screen in a bar than on the screen of a jukebox in the bar.

Additional information about a physical location may be accessed by invoking a link on the web page to cause a subsequent web page an example of which is shown in to be displayed. is a replica of a web page linked to the web page of by which in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention among other things activities at the physical locations can be indicated to the user. A list of physical locations that have been identified by the individual as being of interest Favorite Places may be displayed as shown at . An icon and information about each location as described above may be displayed. The web page may encourage the individual to add physical locations to the individual s profile as exemplified at to increase the likelihood of the system identifying an activity or another individual that may be of interest and present in a physical location that is listed in the profile.

The web page may also display a list of other individuals who are currently or have recently been present at physical locations that are of interest Favorite Places . This list may include real time information and or information about a near term time frame such as Today and or information about past time frames as exemplified at . For each individual included in the list the information may include a photograph an icon an avatar or the like as well as the time the individual arrived at the physical location or logged on to the physical location a copy of a post made by the individual and its time and an indication of how the post or logon was accomplished such as via a mobile device or via the web .

A user may search for physical locations based on various selection criteria such as location type of service or product offered at the location hours of operation the presence of other identified individuals present or logged on to the location and the like. is a replica of a web page in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention showing the result of a search for web pages for proxies of physical locations near a given city. If any of the resulting physical locations are listed in the searching individual s Favorite Places these locations may be listed separately as indicated at . Other resulting physical locations may be listed simply as Places . For each physical location information such as address and number of fans may be displayed. The list may include links to facilitate viewing detailed information about a physical location and becoming a fan of the physical location .

Detailed information about a physical location may be displayed such as by invoking the link shown in . is a replica of a web page in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention for a proxy of a particular physical location. The web page may include information about the physical location such as its name telephone number and address and . Search criteria may be entered via one or more fields .

The web page may also display an electronic address a loca exemplified by by which a user may interact with the proxy. Such interaction may take a variety of forms including logging in to the proxy posting messages to the proxy interacting with activities such as a jukebox taking place at the physical location or on its proxy and the like as exemplified in . This electronic address may be any type of address that may be used to send a message. In the example depicted in the address is a short code SMS short message service address to which a text message may be sent such as from a mobile telephone or Internet connected computer. Other types of addresses include telephone numbers and e mail addresses. As described below users may also send commands such as to associate a tag described below with a display screen.

The web page may include an icon which when invoked displays a separate window not shown for accepting a message and then sending the message to the address without requiring a user to manually activate a separate application program or use a separate device such as a mobile telephone. The separate window may provide the user several options such as Log on Log off Post Tag and the like. Alternatively activating the icon logs the user on the physical location or toggles the user s current logged on state at the physical location.

The web page may display messages of general interest as exemplified at . The web page may also include a link for becoming a fan of the physical location a link for joining the location a link for posting a message to the location and a link for inviting a friend to visit the location.

The web page may display a list of current and recent postings to the physical location by individuals. As discussed above each of the entries in the list may include information about the individual who posted the message including information about whether the posting was made from a mobile device or from the web. The web page may also display a list of fans of the physical location. This list may include all such fans or the list may include fans who also match a selection criterion such as friends of the individual performing the query. The web page may provide information and about the number of fans who fall within each category. As discussed below the web page may also display contents automatically obtained by the system as well as an indication of the source of the contents.

The web page may list activities services products devices etc. collectively activities available or located at the physical location. An example activity a jukebox is depicted at . Information about the current state of the activity such as the current song being played on the jukebox may be displayed. The activity display may include an icon by which the user may interact with the activity. For example invoking the icon may enable the user to select a song to be played on the jukebox and optionally arrange for payment for the song such as by credit card or by accessing an account maintained by the physical location. Other information such as a list of recently played songs a list of available songs or a request to add or remove a song from the list of available songs may be displayed in response to invoking another link .

Other examples of activities include special events such as a sales promotion for a particular brand of beer karaoke night or entertainment of a particular type movie band comedian etc. or by a particular entertainer. Invoking the icon for an activity may enable a user to sign up for the associated activity including possibly reserving a seat or table.

The server is coupled via a gateway to a wireless communication network such as a mobile telephone network. Users of mobile communication devices exemplified by mobile telephone may communicate with the server such as by placing telephone calls sending text messages or sending e mail messages to the server as described in one or more of the incorporated patent applications. As a result users of the mobile communication devices may cause messages to appear on selected ones of the screens . The server also includes a web server by which contents displayed on the screens are served as web pages and are therefore accessible by browsers being executed by computers exemplified by computer connected to the server such as via the Internet .

The server maintains a tag database in which the server stores one or more tags associated with each of the screens . The tags are used to identify content attributes associated with the respective screens . A system administrator or proprietor of one of the screens may associate one or more tags with ones of the screens to indicate one or more types of contents desired to be displayed or desired not to be displayed on the respective screen . Thus the tags may provide a rule base for determining the contents to be displayed on the screens .

Optionally or additionally users may send messages to the server to add tags to the tag database . The users may send the commands by any suitable mechanism such as by sending a text message to an address associated with the screen of interest. Addressing messages is described in an incorporated patent application. An exemplary command is a short message service SMS message whose contents are TAG ZEPPELIN. Commands may also be sent as e mail messages from mobile communication devices or from computers such as computer . It should be noted that the users may but need not be present in the location of the screen to which the user directs a message. For example the user may be home but the user may be interested in activities at a particular location. The user may use his her computer to browse the contents of a screen located at a particular venue such as Toscanini s ice cream because the user is considering going to the venue and wishes to first discover what is happening there or the user is unable to go to the venue but nevertheless wishes to at least virtually participate in activities being undertaken there.

As noted users may cause messages to be displayed on the screens such as by sending the messages to the server . Optionally or alternatively the server may automatically parse contents displayed on the screens and identify tags based on the displayed contents. For example if a user caused a message such as I love the Red Sox to be displayed on the screen hypothetically located at The Harp bar the server may use automatic discovery mechanisms or other well known techniques to identify key words such as Red Sox and then associate these key words with the screen and add the tags to the tags database . Thus the types of contents identified by the tags may dynamically change as users post messages on the screens .

As noted automatically obtaining contents and displaying the contents on the screens may ensure the displayed contents are fresh i.e. change frequently thus providing contents that are interesting even to a relatively static audience even if the audience does not contribute or contributes little to the contents.

The tags provide selection criteria for contents to be displayed on the screens i.e. a profile of the types of content desired to be displayed on the respective screens. Exemplary tags identify a location of the associated screen such as state city neighborhood street zip code or telephone area code a venue type of the location such as ice cream parlor bar night club book store or barber shop demographic information about expected viewers of the screen such as age income ethnicity education level or political inclination activities currently under way at the location such as song being played on a jukebox group activity ex. karaoke open microphone comedy or darts and the like. Table 1 exemplifies tags that might be associated with a set of hypothetical screens.

The tags may be changed based on the time of day day of week etc. For example where an establishment caters to families during the day and to hip hop music fans during the night one set of tags may be used during the day and a different set of tags may be used at night. Thus each tag may have a timeframe associate therewith. Consequently RSS and other types of data feeds may be made time specific at least with respect to what content is displayed.

The server may also maintain an advertisement database which stores advertisements or pointers to advertisements that are to be displayed on the screens . The advertisement database may also contain criteria for selecting advertisements that are to be displayed based on tags associated with the screens . For example sporting goods may be advertised on screens that have an Interest tag that includes sports or a particular sports team. Based on a screen s current set of tags the server may select one or more advertisements from the advertisement database and display the selected advertisement s on the screen. The advertisements may be fetched from an advertisement server . The advertisement server may include classified advertisements advertisement video sequences such as television type advertisements text base advertisements etc. Of course the advertisement server may include several servers each operated by a different brand manufacturer retailer advertisement agency etc. Advertisements may for example be displayed in an L shaped sometimes referred to as a dog leg portion of a screen reserved for advertisements messages from a proprietor of an establishment etc.

Returning to one or more content sources such as servers connected to the Internet are accessible to the server and the server may obtain contents from one or more of the sources and display the contents on selected screens . Exemplary sources include a search engine such as Google a news weather sports stock and or other information server such as Reuters.com a social network server such as Facebook Mike etc. and a syndicated data feed server such as a Really Simple Syndication RSS or other protocol feed server . Other examples include blogs sports team web sites product manufacturer web sites or information aggregator web sites such as Twitter . not shown .

Based on a current set of tags associated with a particular screen the server may fetch or be provided with contents for the screen. The server may use some or all of the tags to formulate searches or other types of queries the server sends to one or more of the sources . For example many social networking systems include search application programming interfaces APIs by which external systems such as the server may search for people messages or other postings or data stored on the systems . The server may periodically such as timer driven or occasionally such as based on frequency of user interaction with a given screen repeat the queries or searches to obtain current contents. Thus the server may pull contents from the sources . Optionally or alternatively the server may subscribe to a syndicated data source such as an RSS feed from a social networking system or other source to obtain pushed contents.

As shown in a screen may display instructions on how to send a message for display on the screen such as by sending an SMS message that includes the text POST LOCA plus the message to be displayed to a screen specific address such as an SMS short code for example 40411 . An example of a message from a user so displayed on the screen is indicated at . An icon may be used to indicate the type of device a user used in this case a mobile telephone to send the message. If the server displays contents obtained from a source on the screen as exemplified by contents from Twitter and contents from Facebook the displayed contents may include an indication such as a name and or icon of the source ex Twitter or Facebook as well as information about a user who generated the contents an icon avatar picture or other graphic associated with the user the user s ID and an indication of the tag s that caused the contents to be displayed ex. Message tagged Red Sox .

Social networking and other systems may include installable applications such as Wiffiti available from LocaModa Inc. Cambridge Mass. for sending messages to a user selected screen as noted on the screen of .

As shown in a user may send still images or video clips for display on a screen. The screen may display instructions such as Send your pix to PIX LOCAMODA.COM on how to submit images or videos for display. Images and videos may be sent as multimedia messages MMS . In other respects sending images and videos is similar to sending text for display on the screens as described above and in the incorporated patent application.

Thus user generated contents UGC stored on social networking systems or other sources may be caused to be displayed on screens based on the location of the screens and or based on interests demographics etc. associated with the screens. In contrast prior art social networking etc. systems direct messages to particular people users who subscribed to the messages without regard to location.

A user may cause a message such as I love the Red Sox or Red Sox rox to be displayed on a screen . As noted as a result the server may associate a tag Interest Red Sox with the screen . Subsequently the server may search for contents related to the Interests tag and display found contents on the screen . As noted the server may subscribe to a feed of information related to the tag. The server may then display fed contents on the screen .

If a jukebox sends information related to a currently playing song to the server the server may obtain information such as from iLike.com about users who are interested in the song artist musical style etc. iLike.com can provides information about users who are currently playing songs. The server may use this information to display information about the song exemplified by information in on the screen. For example the server may use this information to plot on the screen co located with the jukebox a map of where the song being played by the jukebox is also being played by iLike users. Not shown. The server may obtain lyrics of the song and display the lyrics on the screen. Not shown. 

As shown in messages posted by users in social networking systems such as iLike related to a song artist musical style etc. may be obtained by the server and displayed on the screen.

As noted contents may include text still images videos and the like. When a video is selected for display on a screen the server may display a thumbnail still image and instructions by which a user may cause the video to be played. For example as a result of the currently playing song on the jukebox the server may obtain a video related to the artist such as from YouTube and display information about the video on the screen. Instructions to play the video may be txt PLAYRADIOHEAD LOCA to 40411 to cause the video to play.

In one exemplary scenario a user posts a message on a screen saying Looking for Red Sox tickets. As a result the server associates a tag Interest Red Sox tickets with the screen . The server may obtain contents from classified advertisement servers such as Craigslist.com and consequently search for or subscribe to be fed advertisements offering Red Sox tickets for sale and the server may display some or all of these advertisements as contents on the screen . Note that the advertisement content would appear on the screen in the same location as the user who posted the request message or who is accessing the screen content via the user s computer . The server may assign an expiration time to tags so the server stops obtaining contents related to one or more tags after a predetermined amount of time or based on other criteria such as the amount of user activity or other messages related to the tags.

As indicated at in contents may be obtained pushed or pulled from various sources such as IP sources on the Internet including user generated contents UGC and RSS feeds. Contents text images videos etc. may also be explicitly sent by users for display on identified screens as indicated at . Furthermore advertising may be automatically selected by the server optionally based on some or all of the tags currently or historically associated with the screen as indicated at . In addition because the server identifies mobile users who send messages for display and the server may automatically identify tags or keywords in the messages the server may send targeted advertisements such as text messages or MMS messages to the mobile users. Similarly the server may send targeted advertisements via e mail to users who send messages to the server via e mail for display on a screen.

The volume of contents found by the server or fed to the server may greatly exceed the volume of messages users send for posting on the screens . The server may store rules in the tag database or elsewhere to rank contents or content sources and use the rankings to select which contents to display on the screens . In one embodiment messages or other contents sent by users for display on the screens are ranked or weighted very high likely guaranteeing that the messages will be displayed. Alternatively the server may display all messages sent by users for display on specific screens. In one embodiment contents obtained by pull or push that is related to the general or specific geographic location of a screen may be ranked below messages directed to the screen. Contents related to tags associated with a screen may be ranked yet lower. In one embodiment the server randomly selects a predetermined number such as five of the most recently posted contents such as contents posted within 20 minutes of the pull or push for display.

The rule base may include tags that exclude certain contents. For example contents tagged or otherwise associated with competing establishments such as a competing bar or from establishments located closer than a predetermined distance such as 50 miles may be excluded from display.

Material displayed on a location specific screen may include a poll. For example a restaurant or bar may post a poll soliciting votes for patrons favorite bartender or waiter. Patrons may vote by sending text messages to designated short codes. Optionally the messages may include free text that is related or unrelated to the poll. For example patrons may be encouraged to send comments on their favorite bartender or waiter. In addition to displaying numerical results of the poll some embodiments process the text comments of the messages. In some embodiments the comments are treated as another potential source of contents to be displayed on this or another location s screen. That is the comments may be parsed searching for messages that match content attributes associated with a screen. In other embodiments the comments are parsed to identify words or phrases that appear often. These words or phrases may be displayed on a screen as topics of apparent current interest. The comments may be parsed such that negative comments are distinguished from positive comments using well known natural language processing techniques.

In some embodiments a bartender or other service provider may be identified and associated with a location of a screen. Information about the bartender such as the bartender s birthday favorite drink favorite band etc. may be made available to patrons of the location. This information may for example be published on a social network system and or displayed on the screen. As patrons play the bartender s favorite song or band on the jukebox order the bartender s favorite drink etc. the system increments a score for the bartender and periodically or occasionally compares the bartender s score to scores of other bartenders and displays this information on the screen and on the bartender s social network record. Thus a competition is established in which patrons influence the winner through their purchases. The bartender may be motivated to act in ways that tend to win points and collaterally cause patrons to make certain purchases. The scoring may be arranged to favor a particular brand of product which pays for this form of advertising.

A user may send a message for display on a screen for a predetermined period of time. Such a use enables for example posting items for sale or services for hire as in a corkboard application. The message from the user may include an amount of time for which the message is to be displayed and or the server may select the time period. shows an exemplary screen generated as a result of such corkboard messages. A message displayed by the server as a result of a user sent corkboard message may include a system generated address and instructions i.e. for more information send a text message to AD1232 to which another user may respond to inquire about the product or service.

The embodiments of the invention described above are intended to be merely exemplary. Numerous variations and modifications will be apparent to those skilled in the art. All such variations and modifications are intended to be within the scope of the present invention as defined in any appended claims.

A system for displaying contents selected based on a location of a location specific display screen has been described. Such a system may include a processor controlled by instructions stored in a memory. The memory may be random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory or any other memory or combination thereof suitable for storing control software or other instructions and data. Some of the functions performed by the system have been described with reference to flowcharts and or block diagrams. Those skilled in the art should readily appreciate that functions operations decisions etc. of all or a portion of each block or a combination of blocks of the flowcharts or block diagrams may be implemented as computer program instructions software hardware firmware or combinations thereof. Those skilled in the art should also readily appreciate that instructions or programs defining the functions of the present invention may be delivered to a processor in many forms including but not limited to information permanently stored on tangible non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as ROM or devices readable by a computer I O attachment such as CD ROM or DVD disks information alterably stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks removable flash memory and hard drives or information conveyed to a computer through communication media including wired or wireless computer networks. In addition while the invention may be embodied in software the functions necessary to implement the invention may optionally or alternatively be embodied in part or in whole using firmware and or hardware components such as combinatorial logic Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs or other hardware or some combination of hardware software and or firmware components.

While the invention is described through the above described exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that modifications to and variations of the illustrated embodiments may be made without departing from the inventive concepts disclosed herein. For example although some aspects of system have been described with reference to a flowchart those skilled in the art should readily appreciate that functions operations decisions etc. of all or a portion of each block or a combination of blocks of the flowchart may be combined separated into separate operations or performed in other orders. Furthermore disclosed aspects or portions of these aspects may be combined in ways not listed above. Accordingly the invention should not be viewed as being limited to the disclosed embodiment s .

