---

title: Focus-based challenge-response authentication
abstract: A method for authenticating an access attempt includes detecting an access attempt by a user device over a network. A challenge-response authentication is provided over the network to the user device. The challenge-response authentication includes an image having a plurality of image objects. The challenge-response authentication is operable to display the image such that at least one of the plurality of image objects is in focus and at least one of the plurality of image objects is not in focus. In response to providing the challenge-response authentication, an authentication response is received from the user device over the network, and it is determined whether the authentication response includes an indication of the at least one of the plurality of image objects that is in focus to determine whether to authenticate or deny the access attempt.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08893229&OS=08893229&RS=08893229
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08893229
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130611
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 153 100 filed Jun. 3 2011 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to online and or mobile payments and more particularly to a focus based challenge response authentication system that may be used with an online and or mobile payment system.

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as for example the Internet. Consumers routinely purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions may take place directly between a conventional or online merchant or retailer and the consumer and payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions may also take place with the aid of an online or mobile payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such payment service providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties involved. Purchasing with the assistance of a payment service provider from the convenience of virtually anywhere using a mobile device is one main reason why online and or mobile purchases are growing very quickly.

In many aspects of online and or mobile payments as well as in many situations where online and or mobile payments are not involved it may be desirable to authenticate a user attempting to access a website application and or other network service. Authentication is performed to ensure that the entity interacting with the website application and or other network service is not autonomous program running on a computer e.g. a bot and may be desired by website application or other network operators to protect against such bots generating spam e.g. by posting spam on a message board or other social communication application signing up as users e.g. signing up as a user of a message board or other social communication application signing up for an email address etc. and or performing a variety of other bot actions know in the art.

Conventional authentication methods provide word s and or groups of characters to an entity attempting to access a website application or other network service and require the entity to type in the word s or groups of characters in order to be authenticated and gain access to the website application and or network service. The words and or groups of characters may be distorted or warped obscured e.g. with an angled line drawn through them crowded positioned closer together than is customary for ordinary reading and or subject to a variety of other attributes known in the art of word character authentication methods. In some instances words that have been scanned from books or other similar physical documents and that have previously presented problems to Optical Character Recognition OCR programs are used. While such conventional authentication methods have been somewhat successful at preventing bot access to websites applications and or network systems they have also proven to provide various difficulties to humans attempting to access the website application or network through a computer.

According to one embodiment a method for authenticating an access attempt includes providing a challenge response authentication that is operable to display an image such that at least one of a plurality of image objects is in focus and at least one of the plurality of image objects is not in focus. An authentication response that is received in response to providing the challenge response authentication is analyzed to determine whether it includes an indication of the at least one of the plurality of image objects that is in focus and if so the access attempt is authenticated.

In an embodiment a focal point of the image may be changed using a predetermined time schedule to change which of the plurality of image objects is are in focus during the challenge response authentication such that a user performing the access attempt is presented with an image in which different image objects are in focus over time.

As a result a challenge response authentication is provided that provides substantial difficulties for autonomous programs running on computers making access attempts but is relatively easy for a human user making the access attempt.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for authenticating an attempt to access a website application or other network service by a user device over a network. An authentication device is coupled to the network and detects the attempt to access the website application or other network service by the user device. The authentication device then provides a challenge response authentication which includes an image having a plurality of image objects over the network to the user device. The challenge response authentication is operable e.g. when provided to the user device to display the image on a user device display such that at least one of the plurality of image objects is in focus and at least one of the plurality of image objects is not in focus. For example a user may be presented with an image in which different image objects in the plurality of image objects are in focus over time and asked to indicate which of the plurality of image objects is in focus. The user may then use the user device to send an authentication response over the network to the authentication device and the authentication device will determine whether the authentication response includes an indication of the at least one of the plurality of image objects that is in focus. If the authentication response indicates the correct image object s in the image that are known or determined to be in focus by the authentication device the access attempt is authenticated.

Referring now to a method for authenticating an access attempt is illustrated. In the embodiment of the method described below a user is attempting to access a website application and or other network service that is provided over a network by a payee device a payment service provider device an account provider device and or other authentication device. In another embodiment a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. assists in the making of payments from the payer to the payee by transferring funds from the payer account to a payee account of the payee and may authenticate access attempts for a number of network service requests using the method . However these embodiments are meant to be merely exemplary and one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of modifications may be made to the focus based challenge response authentication system and method discussed below without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The method begins at block where an access attempt is detected. In an embodiment at block of the method a user is attempting to access a website application and or a variety of other network services known in the art over a network using a user device. For example the user may be attempting to sign up for an account e.g. a payer account an email account an application account and or a variety of other accounts known in the art access a message board or other social communication service and or perform a variety of other actions know in the art that may require authentication. The access attempt using the user device results in an access request being sent over the network to an authentication device such that the access attempt is detected by the authentication device. In an embodiment the authentication device is part of a server or group of servers that are used to provide the website application or other network service. In another embodiment the authentication device may be separate from the server or group of servers that are used to provide the website application or other network service and may be connected to those server s through the network.

The method then proceeds to block where a challenge response authentication is provided. In an embodiment the authentication device provides the challenge response authentication to the user device over the network in response to detecting the access request. The challenge response authentication is provided to prevent access to the website application and or other network service by autonomous programs on a computer e.g. bots . The challenge response authentication includes an image having a plurality of image objects and the challenge response authentication is operable to provide the image on the user device such that only a subset of the plurality of image objects are displayed in focus on a user device display of the user device while the image objects that are not in the subset are displayed out of focus. A plurality of examples of the image and operation of the challenge response authentication are illustrated and described below but one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of other images and challenge response authentication functionality that provides a focus based challenge response authentication will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to and an embodiment of a focus based challenge response authentication system is illustrated. The focus based challenge response authentication system includes a user device having a user device display . At block of the method a challenge response authentication is provided to the user device over a network that includes an image .

In the embodiment illustrated in and the image is a plenoptic image. Plenoptic images may be created by plenoptic or light field cameras or other imaging devices. In one embodiment plenoptic cameras use microlens arrays also known as lenticular lens arrays that are placed at the focal plane of the cameras main lens along with an image sensor positioned behind the microlens array. Plenoptic cameras produce an image that allows the displacement of image parts that are not in focus to be analyzed such that depth information can be extracted when enable the virtual refocusing of the image using a computer e.g. a processor. One of skill in the art will recognize that the system and method described to produce a plenoptic image above has been presented as merely of one example of how to do so and the system and method used to produce the plenoptic image used in the method is not included to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The challenge response authentication also includes an instruction section a response section and a send button . In the embodiment illustrated in and the instruction section includes the following instruction With the people in the picture below numbered sequentially from left to right indicate in the response section the number of the person s in focus and the response section includes instructions to spell a response in a response box . However the details of the instruction section and or the response section in the challenge response authentication of and are meant to be merely exemplary and one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of instruction sections and response sections that detail to the user what information about the image should provided in the response box will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment the image in the challenge response authentication may be provided to the user device such that one of a plurality of image objects in the image is displayed on the user device display in focus. For example the image may include a first image object e.g. the persons face at the far left of the image a second image object e.g. the persons face in the middle of the image and a third image object e.g. the persons face at the far right of the image . Thus a user may be presented through the user device display on the user device with the image having the first image object in focus e.g. the image in the image having the second image object in focus e.g. the image in or the image having the third image object in focus e.g. the image in .

In another embodiment the image in the challenge response authentication may be provided to the user device with a focal point of the image changing over time such that only one of the first image object the second image object and the third image object is provided on the user device display in focus at any given time. For example a user may be presented through the user device display on the user device with the image having the first image object in focus e.g. the image in for the first 10 seconds that the challenge response authentication is provided on the user device the image with the second image object in focus e.g. the image in for the second 10 seconds that the challenge response authentication is provided on the user device and the image with the third image object in focus e.g. the image in for the third 10 seconds that the challenge response authentication is provided on the user device after which the sequence of image objects which are presented in focus on the user device display may be repeated.

In an embodiment the sequence of image objects which are presented in focus may be predetermined. For example a predetermined image object focus sequence may include presenting the first image object then second image object then third image object and then to repeat as described above and illustrated in and . Predetermined image object focus sequences may include repeating the presentation of a particular image object in focus reversing an image object focus sequence etc. and one of skill in the art will recognize that any predetermined image object focus sequences including initial random sequences randomly repeated sequences any combinations of random and non random sequences will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. In an embodiment the amount of time image objects are presented in focus may be performed by the challenge response authentication according to a predetermined timing schedule. For example a predetermined timing sequence may include presenting each object in focus for 10 seconds as described above. Predetermined timing sequences may include presenting image objects in focus for different amounts of time rapidly shifting the focus of the image between three or more image objects etc. and one of skill in the art will recognize that any predetermined timing sequences will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. In an embodiment the authentication device may select the predetermined image object focus sequence and or the predetermined timing sequence for the challenge response authentication provided on the user device from a plurality of predetermined image object focus sequences and or predetermined timing sequences.

Referring now to an embodiment of a focus based challenge response authentication system is illustrated that is substantially similar to the focus based challenge response authentication system discussed above with reference to and but with the provision of a modified image instruction section and response section in place of the image instruction section and response section . In the embodiment illustrated in the instruction section includes the following instruction Please indicate the object in the picture below that is in focus and the response section includes instructions to provide a response in the response box . However the details of the instruction section and or the response section are meant to be merely exemplary and one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of instruction sections and response sections that detail to the user what information about the image should provided in the response box will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

In the embodiment illustrated in the image is again a plenoptic image. However in this example the image includes a first image object the balloon in the image a second image object the dog in the image and a third image object the tree in the image . As discussed above with the image the image may be provided to the user device at block of the method such that only one of the first image object the second image object or the third image object is displayed on the user device display in focus. As also discussed above with the image the image may be provided to the user device at block of the method with a focal point of the image changing over time such that only one of the first image object the second image object and the third image object is provided on the user device display in focus at any given time. Furthermore the predetermined image object focus sequences and or the predetermined timing sequences may be used with the image as well.

Referring now to an embodiment of a focus based challenge response authentication system is illustrated that is substantially similar to the focus based challenge response authentication system discussed above with reference to and but with the provision of a modified image instruction section and response section in place of the image instruction section and response section . In the embodiment illustrated in the instruction section includes the following instruction Please indicate the shape and if applicable the pattern of the object below that is in focus and the response section includes instructions to provide a response in the response box . However the details of the instruction section and or the response section are meant to be merely exemplary and one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of instruction sections and response sections that detail to the user what information about the image should provided in the response box will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

In the embodiment illustrated in the image is not a plenoptic image like the images and discussed above. The image includes a first image object the square with the checkerboard pattern in the image a second image object the circle in the image and a third image object the triangle in the image . Similarly as discussed above with the images and but without using plenoptic image techniques the image may be provided to the user device at block of the method such that only one of the first image object the second image object or the third image object is displayed on the user device display in focus. Also similarly as discussed above with the images and but without using plenoptic image techniques the image may be provided to the user device at block of the method with the image object that is in focus changing over time such that only one of the first image object the second image object and the third image object is provided on the user device display in focus at any given time. Furthermore the predetermined image object focus sequences and or the predetermined timing sequences may be used with the image as well.

In an embodiment the instruction section response section and send button on each of the challenge response authentications illustrated in and may be modified to simply instruct a user to select the image object in the image that is in focus e.g. by using an input device such as a mouse to click on or select the portion of the image that includes the image object that is in focus.

The method then proceeds to block where an authentication response is received. In an embodiment in response to receiving the challenge response authentication at block of the method the user uses the user device to provide a response in the response section and then selects the send button to send an authentication response over the network to the authentication device. In another embodiment in response to receiving the challenge response authentication at block of the method the user uses the user device to select a portion of the image in the challenge response authentication that includes the image object that is in focus which results in an authentication response that includes the selection of the portion of the image being sent over the network to the authentication device.

The method then proceeds to decision block where it is determined whether the authentication response includes an indication of image object s that are in focus. In response to receiving the authentication response over the network from the user device the authentication device analyzes the authentication response to determine whether it includes an indication of an image object known or determined to be in focus in the challenge response authentication that was sent in block . The authentication device may retrieve information from one or more databases to perform the analysis on the authentication response. If the authentication response indicates the appropriate image object s that was were in focus the method proceeds to block where the access attempt by the user device is authenticated. If the authentication response indicates an image object s that was were not in focus the method proceeds to block where the access attempt by the user device is denied.

In one example the embodiment illustrated in and is used where the image was provided and displayed on the user device display with only one of the first image object second image object or third image object in focus. In such an embodiment the authentication device will know which image was provided and thus will know which image object in the image is in focus.

For the image illustrated in the authentication device will know that the image object is in focus and will make the determination at decision block that the authentication response includes an indication of the image object that is in focus if the authentication response includes the words and or character strings one first etc. For the image illustrated in the authentication device will know that the image object is in focus and will make the determination at decision block that the authentication response includes an indication of the image object that is in focus if the authentication response includes the words and or character strings two second etc. For the image illustrated in the authentication device will know that the image object is in focus and will make the determination at decision block that the authentication response includes an indication of the image object that is in focus if the authentication response includes the words and or character strings three third etc.

In another example the embodiment illustrated in and is used where the image was provided and displayed on the user device display with a focal point of the image changing over time such that only one of the first image object the second image object and the third image object was provided on the user device display in focus at any given time. In such an embodiment the authentication device determines which of the image objects in the image was in focus when the authentication response was provided by the user.

For example upon the image being presented on the user device display at block of the method the challenge response authentication may begin a predetermined image object focus sequence and predetermined timing sequence to provide the image objects and in focus in the image at different times. The challenge response authentication may be operable to begin a timing mechanism when the image is first presented on the user device display such that a authentication response time which may measure the time elapsed between the providing of the challenge response authentication to the user device display and the sending of the authentication response by the user is recorded when the authentication response is sent. At block along with the authentication response the authentication device may receive the authentication response time. Then at block the authentication device may retrieve the predetermined image object focus sequence and predetermined timing sequence for the image that was provided in block if the method . The authentication device may then use the authentication response time to determine according to the predetermined timing schedule where in the predetermined image object focus sequence the challenge response authentication was when the authentication response was sent to determine which of the image objects in the image was in focus on the user device display when the authentication response was sent. The authentication device may then compare that against the authentication response to determine at decision block whether the authentication response includes an indication of the image object that was in focus when the authentication response was sent.

In another embodiment the authentication response includes a selection of a portion of the image as discussed above. The authentication device may know or be operable to determine which of the image objects was in focus when the authentication response was provided e.g. using the techniques discussed above where the image was provided and displayed on the user device display with only one of the image objects in focus or where the image was provided and displayed on the user device display with a focal point of the image changing over time such that one of the image objects was provided on the user device display in focus at any given time. By using the information about which image object was in focus when the authentication response was sent the authentication device may determine which portions of the image are associated with that image object. The authentication device may then compare that information to the authentication response to determine whether the selection of the portion of the image in the authentication response indicates the image object that was in focus when the authentication response was sent.

For example for the image illustrated in the authentication device will know or determine that the image object was in focus and will make the determination at decision block that the authentication response includes an indication of the image object that was in focus if the authentication response includes a selection of a portion of the image that is known to include the image object . For the image illustrated in the authentication device will know or determine that the image object was in focus and will make the determination at decision block that the authentication response includes an indication of the image object that was in focus if the authentication response includes a selection of a portion of the image that is known to include the image object . For the image illustrated in the authentication device will know or determine that the image object was in focus and will make the determination at decision block that the authentication response includes an indication of the image object that was in focus if the authentication response includes a selection of a portion of the image that is known to include the image object

In another example the image described above with reference to may have been provided at block of the method either with only one of the first image object second image object or third image object in focus or with a focal point of the image changing over time such that only one of the first image object the second image object and the third image object was provided on the user device display in focus at any given time. The authentication device and or user device may operate substantially as discussed above for the image at decision block with the exception that the authentication responses balloon or a selection of a portion of the image that includes the balloon will result in an authenticated access attempt when the first image object was in focus dog or a selection of a portion of the image that includes the dog will result in an authenticated access attempt when the second image object was in focus and tree or a selection of a portion of the image that includes the tree will result in an authenticated access attempt when the third image object was in focus.

In another example the image described above with reference to may have been provided at block of the method either with only one of the first image object second image object or third image object in focus or with a focal point of the image changing over time such that one of the first image object the second image object and the third image object was provided on the user device display in focus at any given time. The authentication device and or user device may operate substantially as discussed above for the images and at decision block with the exception that the authentication responses square checkerboard or a selection of a portion of the image that includes the checkerboarded square will result in an authenticated access attempt when the first image object was in focus circle or a selection of a portion of the image that includes the circle will result in an authenticated access attempt when the second image object was in focus and triangle or a selection of a portion of the image that includes the triangle will result in an authenticated access attempt when the third image object was in focus.

While the examples above discuss a single image object in the image of the challenge response authentication being provided to the user on the user devices display in focus various subsets e.g. more than one of the image objects in a given image may be provided in focus. Thus a variety of focus based challenge response authentications may be provided that require the user to indicate the subset of image objects of a plurality of image objects that are in focus in an image. For example an instruction for a challenge response authentication may include how many of the objects in the image below are in focus and proper responses may range from none or zero to a number of image objects to all etc.

Thus a system and method are discussed that provide an image to a user device with only a subset of a plurality of image objects that are included in the image in focus. A user using the user device is asked to identify and or provide an indication of the subset of the plurality of image objects that are in focus. An authentication device either knows or is operable to determine the subset of the image objects in focus in the image provided to the user device and compares that to the indication by the user to determine whether to authenticate the access attempt. Note that focus does not require complete focus or clarity as this may vary depending on a user s display device a user s eyesight lighting etc. The one or more object images in focus may be the one or ones that are the most clear such that the correct image for authentication is still blurry but not as much as the other images.

Referring now to an embodiment of a networked system used in the payment system described above is illustrated. The networked system includes a plurality of user devices an authentication device a plurality of payee devices a payment service provider device and a plurality of account provider devices in communication over a network . Any of the user devices may be the user device discussed above. The authentication device may be the authentication device discussed above and may be included in any of the payee device the payment service provider device and or the accountholder device . The payee devices may be operated by the payees discussed herein. The payment service provider device may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The account provider devices may be operated by account providers such as for example credit card account providers bank account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art.

The user devices authentication device payee devices payment service provider device and account provider devices may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The user device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the user device may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

The user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the user to browse information available over the network and access websites applications and or other network services. For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The user device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the user. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application.

The user device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the user device . In particular the other applications may include a payment application for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the user to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The user device includes one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the payment service provider device and or account provider device to associate the user with a particular account.

The payee device may be maintained for example by a conventional or on line merchant conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the payee device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the payer.

The payee device also includes a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the payer of items. The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from the user through the user device the account provider through the account provider device and or from the payment service provider through the payment service provider device over the network .

Referring now to an embodiment of a user device is illustrated. The user device may be the user devices and or . The user device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display and a plurality of input buttons . One of skill in the art will recognize that the user device is a portable or mobile phone including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile user devices and or desktop user devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the user devices and the authenticating device the payees device the payment service provider device and or the account provider device is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by users payees payment service providers and account providers in the payment system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball and or a location determination component e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art. In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the user device and the authentication device the payee device s the payment service provider device and or the account provider device s . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a authentication device is illustrated. In an embodiment the device may be the authentication device payment service provider device the payee device and or the account holder device . The device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network and to a challenge response authentication engine that is coupled to each of a sequence and timing database and an image database . The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processor allows the device to send and receive information over the network . The challenge response authentication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed by a processor allows the device to retrieve images from the image database retrieve sequence and timing information for the retrieved image from the sequence and timing database send the image and the sequence and timing information to the communications engine receive authentication responses determine whether the authentication responses correctly indicate image objects that are in focus in an image provided in a challenge response authentication and or provide a plurality of other functions discussed above. While the databases and has been illustrated as located in the authentication device one of skill in the art will recognize that they may be connected to the challenge response authentication engine through the network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on users payees payment service providers and account holders however a user may attempt access and being authenticated by a variety of other entities. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

