---

title: Triggering action on a web page
abstract: A method and computer system for receiving a selection of a first element of one or more elements on a web page via a user interface. A selection of an action to associate with the first element is received via the user interface. The action is associated with the first element on the web page based upon, at least in part, receiving the selection of the action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524073&OS=09524073&RS=09524073
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09524073
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130513
---
Generally to display a new feature to a user or update an existing feature a publisher must decide the criteria used to display the feature and add the code to their website or application to trigger the feature. They must then add code to their website or application to create or update the features that will be displayed. This may require modifying testing and releasing the website or application which may cause delays of e.g. days weeks and even months before changes may be implemented tested and deployed to production. This may be particularly true for websites or applications with e.g. long release cycles or that employ third party developers. Moreover publishers of some websites or applications may not want to display the same features on every page or to every visitor on the web site. For example if the webpage template structure is robust the publisher may be able to implement features on a per page basis keyed off of the dimension that may be of interest to them e.g. author name content category etc. but even in those cases it may require the developer to directly add new code to the template s and a new product release.

In one implementation a method performed by one or more computing devices comprises populating on a computing device a user interface dashboard with one or more elements on a web page based upon at least in part existing code on the web page. A selection of a first element of the one or more elements may be received via the user interface dashboard wherein selection of the first element may include at least one of a class name and an element ID populated in the user interface dashboard. A selection of an action to associate with the first element may be received via the user interface dashboard. The action may be associated with the first element based upon at least in part receiving the selection of the action.

In one implementation a method performed by one or more computing devices comprises receiving a selection of a first element of one or more elements on a web page via a user interface. A selection of an action to associate with the first element may be received via the user interface. The action may be associated with the first element on the web page based upon at least in part receiving the selection of the action.

One or more of the following features may be included. The user interface may include a dashboard. The user interface may be populated with the one or more elements based upon at least in part existing code on the web page. Selection of the first element may include a query selector. Selection of the first element may include an element ID of existing code on the web page for the first element. Selection of the first element may include a location of the action. The action may include a content notification. The action may include an in page content recommendation. The action may be executed when the first element is displayed. Selection of the first element may include a user action associated with the first element.

In another implementation a computing system includes a processor and a memory configured to perform operations comprising receiving a selection of a first element of one or more elements on a web page via a user interface. A selection of an action to associate with the first element may be received via the user interface. The action may be associated with the first element on the web page based upon at least in part receiving the selection of the action.

One or more of the following features may be included. The user interface may include a dashboard. The user interface may be populated with the one or more elements based upon at least in part existing code on the web page. Selection of the first element may include a query selector. Selection of the first element may include an element ID of existing code on the web page for the first element. Selection of the first element may include a location of the action. The action may include a content notification. The action may include an in page content recommendation. The action may be executed when the first element is displayed. Selection of the first element may include a user action associated with the first element.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations as will be discussed in greater detail below instead of inserting code snippets with pre defined tags that publishers may be required to add into a web site in the appropriate location on a web page and then scanning the web page and looking for those pre defined tags action process may enable the publisher to identify existing elements on the web page indicate which existing elements on the web page that the publisher wants to use and then those elements may be the triggers to perform certain actions.

Referring to there is shown action process that may reside on and may be executed by a computer e.g. computer which may be connected to a network e.g. network e.g. the internet or a local area network . Examples of computer and or one or more of the client electronic devices noted below may include but are not limited to a personal computer s a laptop computer s mobile computing device s a server computer a series of server computers a mainframe computer s or a computing cloud s . Computer may execute an operating system for example but not limited to Microsoft Windows Mac OS X Red Hat Linux or a custom operating system. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Mac and OS X are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both .

As will be discussed below in greater detail action process may receive a selection of a first element of one or more elements on a web page via a user interface. A selection of an action to associate with the first element may be received via the user interface. The action may be associated with the first element on the web page based upon at least in part receiving the selection of the action.

The instruction sets and subroutines of action process which may be stored on storage device coupled to computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown included within computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Computer may include a data store such as a database e.g. relational database object oriented database triplestore database etc. and may be located within any suitable memory location such as storage device coupled to computer . Any data described throughout the present disclosure may be stored in the data store. In some implementations computer may utilize a database management system such as but not limited to My Structured Query Language MySQL in order to provide multi user access to one or more databases such as the above noted relational database. The data store may also be a custom database such as for example a flat file database or an XML database. Any other form s of a data storage structure and or organization may also be used. Action process may be a component of the data store a stand alone application that interfaces with the above noted data store and or an applet application that is accessed via client applications . The above noted data store may be in whole or in part distributed in a cloud computing topology. In this way computer and storage device may refer to multiple devices which may also be distributed throughout the network.

Computer may execute a web site application e.g. web site application examples of which may include but are not limited to e.g. a web server application web site building application a web site management application a web site hosting application or other application that allows for the building execution administration and management of a web site and or its associated content. Action process and or web site application may be accessed via client applications . Action process may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script that may interact with and or be executed within web site application and or one or more of client applications . Web site application may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script that may interact with and or be executed within action process and or one or more of client applications . One or more of client applications may be a stand alone application or may be an applet application script that may interact with and or be executed within action process and or web site application . Examples of client applications may include but are not limited to e.g. a web server application web site building application a web site management application a web site hosting application or other application that allows for the building execution administration and management of a web site and or its associated content a standard and or mobile web browser an email client application a textual and or a graphical user interface a customized web browser a plugin an Application Programming Interface API or a custom application. The instruction sets and subroutines of client applications which may be stored on storage devices coupled to client electronic devices may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown incorporated into client electronic devices .

Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives flash drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM and read only memories ROM . Examples of client electronic devices and or computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer e.g. client electronic device a laptop computer e.g. client electronic device a smart data enabled cellular phone e.g. client electronic device a notebook computer e.g. client electronic device a tablet not shown a server not shown a television not shown a smart television not shown a media e.g. video photo etc. capturing device not shown and a dedicated network device not shown . Client electronic devices may each execute an operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Android Apple iOS Mac OS X Red Hat Linux or a custom operating system.

One or more of client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of action process and vice versa . Accordingly action process may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of client applications and or action process .

One or more of client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of web site application and vice versa . Accordingly web site application may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of client applications and or web site application . As one or more of client applications action process and web site application taken singly or in any combination may effectuate some or all of the same functionality any description of effectuating such functionality via one or more of client applications action process web site application or combination thereof and any described interaction s between one or more of client applications action process web site application or combination thereof to effectuate such functionality should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

Users may access computer and action process e.g. using one or more of client electronic devices directly through network or through secondary network . Further computer may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line . Action process may include one or more user interfaces such as browsers and textual or graphical user interfaces through which users may access action process .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example client electronic device is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further client electronic device is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Client electronic device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between client electronic device and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between client electronic device and WAP . Client electronic device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between client electronic device and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

Some or all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers smart phones and other electronic devices to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection. Other forms of interconnection e.g. Near Field Communication NFC may also be used.

Referring also to there is shown a diagrammatic view of client electronic device . While client electronic device is shown in this figure this is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to be a limitation of this disclosure as other configurations are possible. For example any computing device capable of executing in whole or in part action process may be substituted for client electronic device within examples of which may include but are not limited to computer and or client electronic devices .

Client electronic device may include a processor and or microprocessor e.g. microprocessor configured to e.g. process data and execute the above noted code instruction sets and subroutines. Microprocessor may be coupled via a storage adaptor not shown to the above noted storage device. An I O controller e.g. I O controller may be configured to couple microprocessor with various devices such as keyboard pointing selecting device e.g. mouse custom device e.g. device USB ports not shown and printer ports not shown . A display adaptor e.g. display adaptor may be configured to couple display e.g. CRT or LCD monitor s with microprocessor while network controller adaptor e.g. an Ethernet adaptor may be configured to couple microprocessor to the above noted network e.g. the Internet or a local area network .

As discussed above and referring also to action process may receive a selection of a first element of one or more elements on a web page via a user interface. A selection of an action to associate with the first element may be received by action process via the user interface. The action may be associated with the first element on the web page by action process based upon at least in part receiving the selection of the action.

Generally using embedded social media platforms as an example only a snippet of e.g. Javascript may be manually added to a website which then causes a widget e.g. a like icon to be loaded and displayed as an overlay on the website. Typically without additional script tags or the like manually added on the web page the widget is limited in its ability to interact with the web page. Therefore the user interface may display the widget only as an overlay on the existing website e.g. a fixed position bar on bottom top or side of a browser and may be keyed off e.g. triggered for execution based upon user actions and generic web page properties e.g. of page scroll number of pixels scrolled time delay user upscroll etc. . To key off of a specific place on the web page e.g. at the bottom of a web page article the widget may require the manual addition of script tags at that specific location e.g. in the Document Object Model DOM so it is known when to be displayed.

Other example services may scan the web page to look for specific elements e.g. images videos links etc. on the web page. The service may then modify those specific page elements to incorporate some additional feature e.g. sharing saving related content advertising etc. . The service may then key off of known object element types to decide which objects to modify and generally may allow for publishers to override those settings manually with the addition of content tags. Other example services may move content around within the web page to optimize object display and placement but this may require deep website integration and significant up front development effort.

Action process may enable users e.g. publishers to enable disable and configure website features in virtual real time without manually adding the above noted example code e.g. scripts content tags etc. to their website and with the same or similar granularity of control with regards to where when actions occur on the web page that the publisher may have as if e.g. they were manually adding the code to their website. For instance assume for example purposes only that a user e.g. user is a website publisher that wants to add functionality e.g. a recommended content notification to a web page that is meant to display when a user reaches the end of an article on the web page. Typically as noted above user may be required to add a script tag at the bottom of the article in the website template. However the website may already have code that identifies where the end of the article is. For instance this may be the bottom of the tag on their page or may be at the beginning of the section on the web page. As such in the example action process may use the existing code on the web site and then use that as the trigger to take action.

For example action process may receive a selection of a first element of one or more elements on a web page via a user interface. In some implementations the user interface may include a dashboard. Referring at least to an example user interface dashboard e.g. dashboard associated with e.g. action process website application client application or combination thereof is shown. In some implementations dashboard may include a cloud configuration panel for website widgets e.g. content notifications in page content recommendation boxes sharing saving advertising etc. . In the example action process may enable user to use e.g. cursor via mouse to input the first element to be received . For instance selection of the first element may include an element ID of existing code on the web page for the first element. In the example action process may enable user to use cursor to select e.g. object where an example dropdown menu may be used to select a particular element from existing code on the web page. Action process may enable user to use cursor to then select e.g. object where user may input the element ID e.g. of the article such as . While an element ID is described other examples of elements may also be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure. For example selection of the first element may include a class name of existing code on the web page for the first element. An example of the class name may include e.g. the above noted . Additionally in some implementations selection of the first element may include a query selector. A query selector may generally be described as a more generic way of identifying the first element. For example a query selector may represent the above noted element ID the above noted class name or other more detailed specifiers. As such the use of an element ID and or class name should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

In some implementations selection of the first element may include a location of the action. In the example action process may enable user to use cursor to select e.g. object where an example dropdown menu may be used to select a particular location where the recommended content notification is to be displayed. For instance action process may enable user to have the recommended content notification be displayed e.g. above the DOM element ID entered via object below the DOM element ID entered via object left of the DOM element ID entered via object right of the DOM element ID entered via object etc.

In some implementations action process may populate the user interface with the one or more elements based upon at least in part existing code on the web page. For instance assume for example purposes only that the code for the web page is stored e.g. at storage device . Action process may query client electronic device to retrieve the code for the web page from storage device and populate e.g. object with each element from that code. In some implementations action process may populate the user interface e.g. dashboard with any previously entered elements such as the above noted DOM element ID entered via object .

In some implementations a selection of an action to associate with the first element may be received by action process via the user interface. For example as noted above the action may include a content notification. For instance a content notification may include e.g. a notification that a comment has been left by a user about the article on the web page or a comment about another web page. In the example action process may enable user to use cursor to select e.g. object where an example dropdown menu may be used to select a particular action to associate with the first element e.g. the DOM element ID entered via object . Other examples of content notification may also be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure. While examples of content notifications are described other actions may also be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure. For example the action may include an in page content recommendation. The in page content recommendation box may include e.g. a related article with a similar topic as the above noted article on the web page. As another example the action may include tagging articles with category labels. For example dashboard may enable user to select as the action via object a restaurant reservation widget that is to be displayed on articles tagged with restaurants . As such the description of content notifications and or in page content recommendations as well as any other website widgets should be taken as an example only and not to limit the scope of the disclosure.

In some implementations the action may be associated with the first element on the web page by action process based upon at least in part receiving the selection of the action. For example action process may execute the action when the first element is displayed. For instance as noted above assume for example purposes only that user wants to add functionality e.g. a recommended content notification to a web page that is meant to display below an article of the web page when a user reaches the bottom of the article. In the example action process may enable user to use cursor to select e.g. object where an example dropdown menu may be used to select the tag as the particular element from existing code on the web page. Further in the example action process may enable user to use cursor to select e.g. object where an example dropdown menu may be used to select the particular location of below the entered via object where the recommended content notification is to be displayed. Further in the example action process may enable user to use cursor to select e.g. object where an example dropdown menu may be used to select the content notification action to associate with the entered via object . As such in the example once the bottom of the article is visibly displayed e.g. via display as indicated by the tag action process may execute the action of displaying the recommended content notification below the article.

In some implementations selection of the first element may include a user action associated with the first element. For example object currently indicates that the recommended content notification should be displayed when a user scrolls past a particular DOM element ID. In some implementations object may indicate that the recommended content notification should be displayed when a user hovers cursor over the particular DOM element ID. In the example if a user hovers cursor over the particular DOM element ID the recommended content notification may be displayed. Conversely if a user does not hover cursor over the particular DOM element ID the recommended content notification may not display even if the particular DOM element ID is visibly displayed. Other examples of user actions as well as web page properties e.g. time delay number of pixels scrolled etc. may also be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

In some implementations dashboard may be used to exclude execution of the action on particular web pages as well as sub pages . For instance in the above example if a user hovers cursor over the particular DOM element ID the recommended content notification may be displayed if the particular web page listed at e.g. object that includes the particular DOM element ID is not listed. Conversely if a user hovers cursor over the particular DOM element ID the recommended content notification may not display if the particular web page that includes the particular DOM element ID is listed. In some implementations dashboard may be used to exclude any recommendations from particular web pages listed at e.g. object . For instance in the above example if a user hovers cursor over the particular DOM element ID the recommended content notification may be displayed if the particular page to be recommended listed at e.g. object is not listed. Conversely if a user hovers cursor over the particular DOM element ID the recommended content notification may not display if the particular page to be recommended is listed at object .

In some implementations action process may enable easier A B testing for multiple concurrent experiments e.g. to see which text image or layout get the best results partially and or entirely from the cloud. For example user may test whether placement of the above noted content recommendation action module is most effectively placed above the article below the article or below the comments. Action process may in some implementations monitor the experiments in real time and may optimize the location based on data being read as a result of the experiments.

In some implementations action process may enable an easier way to implement and configure new site features for e.g. non technical users. For larger website publishers action process may help free them from being tied to existing release schedules and or getting additional work from engineering teams or third party developers. In some implementations user may include in the website a one time setup code shown by example only at may enable action process to operate as described throughout. Once setup code is in place no more developer work is needed to make changes.

While the above description includes examples of trigger types such as location on a web page a user action and URL it will be appreciated that other types of triggers may be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure. For example the triggers may include but are not limited to browser or device type geo location user profile info how the user arrived on the publisher site the content or content types of the page or combination thereof. As such the description of any particular trigger type should be taken as an example only and not to otherwise limit the scope of the disclosure.

In some implementations the above noted functionalities may be mapped by action process to the specific trigger. These may include e.g. different user interfaces e.g. a recommended content pull tab for index pages a sharing bar for articles and a watch later icon on top of videos etc. . They may also be changing the behavior e.g. users who do not engage with content notifications may be delivered information via an inline widget a widget used in conjunction with an event e.g. a video event may be displayed to the user only the pages that are relevant and what is displayed may depend on the status of the event e.g. invitation to RSVP before the event starts features for contributing after one RSVPs participate in the event when the event is live and or review the event after the event is completed a user who comes to a restaurant menu page after searching for e.g. restaurants with good vegan food in San Mateo may see the vegan menu items highlighted or aggregated for easier viewing.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present disclosure may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware implementation an entirely software implementation including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an implementation combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. The computer usable or computer readable storage medium including a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be for example but is not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a media such as those supporting the internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be a suitable medium upon which the program is stored scanned compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. The computer readable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. Java and all Java based trademarks and logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Oracle and or its affiliates. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language PASCAL or similar programming languages as well as in scripting languages such as Javascript or PERL. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of apparatus systems methods and computer program products according to various implementations of the present disclosure. It will be understood that each block in the flowchart and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart and or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable computer program instructions for implementing the specified logical function s act s . These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the computer program instructions which may execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create the ability to implement one or more of the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof. It should be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block s may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed not necessarily in a particular order on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts not necessarily in a particular order specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications variations and any combinations thereof will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The implementation s were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various implementation s with various modifications and or any combinations of implementation s as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by reference to implementation s thereof it will be apparent that modifications variations and any combinations of implementation s including any modifications variations and combinations thereof are possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended claims.

