---

title: Antagonists of the toll-like receptor 1/2 complex
abstract: Provided are compounds, compositions and methods for treating Toll-like receptor 1/2 complex (TLRI/2) related inflammatory disorders. Small molecules, based on the benzotropolone scaffold, capable of influencing downstream signaling are disclosed as well as methods of making and modifying these molecules. Also provided are methods for treating a subject for a clinical condition associated with Toll-like receptor complex 1/2 activation, comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a benzotropolone compound.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09517993&OS=09517993&RS=09517993
owner: The Regents of the University of Colorado, a body corporate
number: 09517993
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130729
---
This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US2013 052517 having an international filing date of Jul. 29 2013 which designated the United States which PCT application claimed the benefit of U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 676 992 filed Jul. 29 2012 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under grant numbers DA026950 DA025740 and NS067425 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein report compositions methods and uses for treating Toll like receptor 1 2 complex TLR1 2 related immune disorders. Some embodiments of the present invention provide small molecules capable of specifically inhibiting TLR1 2 influencing downstream signaling. Other embodiments include methods of generating and or modifying small molecules useful in the methods and compositions of the invention.

The vertebrate immune system is composed of a combination of cells and molecules with specialized roles in defending against infecting pathogens such as bacteria viruses fungi and parasites. There are two fundamentally different types of immune responses to infecting pathogens. Acquired immune responses are mediated by highly specialized systemic cells which recognize pathogens and generate specific immune responses against them. The acquired immune response provides the vertebrate immune system with the ability to remember specific pathogens and mount stronger responses upon each repeat pathogen exposure. The generation of acquired immunity takes time however e.g. 2 3 days post infection which could leave the body susceptible to the early effects of infection where it not for the innate immune system.

Unlike the acquired immune system the innate immune system does not confer long lasting or protective immunity. Rather the innate immune system provides the body with a first line of defense by recognizing and responding to conserved features of pathogens in a generic way. During an innate immune response an invading pathogen is recognized by several types of dedicated receptors in the host including soluble receptors in the blood and membrane bound germline encoded receptors on the surface of host cells. Stimulation of these membrane bound receptors known as Toll like receptors TLRs leads to activation of the transcription factor NF B and other signaling molecules that are involved in regulating the expression of cytokine genes including those encoding TNF IL 1 and certain chemokines.

TLRs are pattern recognition receptors that recognize pathogen derived macromolecules such as bacterial and yeast cell wall components and viral and bacterial nucleic acids. The conserved features of pathogens recognized by TLRs are collectively referred to as pathogen associated molecular patterns PAMPs . In humans 11 TLRs respond to a variety of PAMPs including lipopolysaccharides TLR4 lipopeptides TLR2 associated with TLR1 or TLR6 bacterial flagellin TLR5 viral dsRNA TLR3 viral or bacterial ssRNA TLRs 7 and 8 and CpG rich unmethylated DNA TLR9 among others.

Because of their ability to initiate and propagate inflammation TLRs are attractive targets for anti inflammatory agents. Evidence that TLRs are potential therapeutic targets include overexpression in disease knockout mice being resistant to disease in disease models ligands exacerbating inflammation in disease models and genetic differences in TLRs or their signaling proteins correlating with risk of disease. Because TLR activation occurs early in the inflammation cascade there is potentially an advantage in blocking TLRs.

It has been demonstrated that the cytokine response to human cytomegalovirus CMV lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus LCMV and herpes simplex virus HSV 1 is controlled by the TLR1 2 complex. TLR1 2 has been suggested to have beneficial effects in both chronic and acute inflammatory diseases ranging from acne to sepsis and may also uttenuate pulmonary tumor metastases. While several TLR2 antagonists are currently being developed as therapeutics for cancer and autoimmune disease these antagonists are all naturally derived. Synthetic low molecular weight compounds with inhibitory activity against TLR 1 2 have not yet been described.

Some embodiments herein report compositions methods and uses for agents capable of binding to and inhibiting activation of TLR1 2.

Some aspects of the invention provide compounds having a benzotropolone moiety within their structure that are capable of attenuating effects of acute inflammatory disease and chronic inflammatory disease.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a reproducible method for synthesizing a compound having a benzotropolone moiety within its structure.

Other aspects of the invention provide methods for treating a subject for a clinical condition associated with Toll like receptor complex 1 2 activation. Such treatment methods typically include administering to the subject a compound of the invention.

In some embodiments the clinical condition comprises a chronic inflammatory disease or an acute inflammatory disease. Within these embodiments in some instances the clinical condition comprises a clinical condition associated with viral infection atopic dermatitis psoriasis acne or sepsis. While clinical conditions associated with a wide variety of viral infections can be treated by methods of the invention in some particular cases methods of the invention are used to treat a chronic inflammatory disease or an acute inflammatory disease caused by human cytomegalovirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis herpes simplex virus 1 or a combination thereof. Yet other aspects of the invention provide methods for treating pulmonary tumor metastases.

The benzotropolone containing compounds of the present invention can be made in forms suitable for oral delivery. The benzotropolone containing compounds of the present invention can be administered to maintain a blood concentration sufficient to allow the manifestation of pharmacological effect.

 Alkyl refers to a saturated linear monovalent hydrocarbon moiety of on to twenty typically one to twelve and often one to six carbon atoms or a saturated branched monovalent hydrocarbon moiety of three to twenty typically three to twelve and often three to six carbon atoms. Exemplary alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl ethyl n propyl 2 propyl tert butyl pentyl and the like.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable excipient refers to an excipient that is useful in preparing a pharmaceutical composition that is generally safe non toxic and neither biologically nor otherwise undesirable and includes excipients that are acceptable for veterinary uses as well as human pharmaceutical use.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound means a salt that is pharmaceutically acceptable and that possesses the desired pharmacological activity of the parent compound.

 Phenyl group refers to a group comprising the univalent organic radical CH which forms an aromatic six membered hexagonal planar ring.

The terms pro drug and prodrug are used interchangeably herein and refer to a pharmacologically substantially inactive derivative of a parent drug molecule that requires biotransformation either spontaneous or enzymatic within the organism to release the active drug. Prodrugs are variations or derivatives of the compounds of this invention which have groups cleavable under metabolic conditions. Prodrugs become the compounds of the invention which are pharmaceutically active in vivo when they undergo solvolysis under physiological conditions or undergo enzymatic degradation. Prodrug compounds of this invention may be called single double triple etc. depending on the number of biotransformation steps required to release the active drug within the organism and indicating the number of functionalities present in a precursor type form. Prodrug forms often offer advantages of solubility tissue compatibility or delayed release in the mammalian organism. Prodrugs commonly known in the art include acid derivatives that are well known to one skilled in the art such as but not limited to esters prepared by reaction of the parent acid compound with an amine or basic groups reacted to form an acylated base derivative. Moreover the prodrug derivatives of this invention may be combined with other features herein taught to enhance bioavailability.

 A therapeutically effective amount means the amount of a compound that when administered to a mammal for treating a disease is sufficient to effect such treatment for the disease. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the disease and its severity and the age weight etc. of the subject to be treated.

 Treating or treatment of a disease includes 1 preventing the disease i.e. causing the clinical symptoms of the disease not to develop in a subject that may be exposed to or predisposed to the disease but does not yet experience or display symptoms of the disease 2 inhibiting the disease i.e. arresting or reducing the development of the disease or its clinical symptoms or 3 relieving the disease i.e. causing regression of the disease or its clinical symptoms.

It should be appreciated that combinations of the various embodiments and instances described herein form other embodiments. For example in one particular embodiment Ris methoxy RR R and Rare hydrogen Ris COO CH CH and Ris hydrogen. In this manner a variety of compounds are embodied within the present invention.

Representative compounds of the invention include but are not limited to those shown in Table 1 below.

The compounds of the present invention can be synthesized from readily available starting materials. Various substituents on the compounds of the present invention can be present in the starting compounds or added to any one of the intermediates by known methods of substitution or conversion reactions. Because the compounds of the present invention can have certain substituents which are necessarily present the introduction of each substituent is dependent on the specific substituents involved and the chemistry necessary for their formation. Thus consideration of how one substituent would be affected by a chemical reaction when forming a second substituent would involve techniques familiar to one of ordinary skill in the art. This would further be dependent on the ring involved.

If the compound of the present invention contains one or more chiral centers the compound can be synthesized enantioselectively or a mixture of enantiomers and or diastereomers can be prepared and separated. The resolution of the compounds of the present invention their starting materials and or the intermediates may be carried out by known procedures e.g. as described in the four volume compendium Optical Resolution Information Center Manhattan College Riverdale N.Y. and in Jean Jacques Andre Collet and Samuel H Wilen John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1981 which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. The resolution of compounds is based on the differences in the physical properties of diastereomers by attachment either chemically or enzymatically of an enantiomerically pure moiety results in forms that are separable by fractional crystallization distillation or chromatography.

It is to be understood that the scope of this invention encompasses not only the various isomers which may exist but also the various mixtures of isomers which may be formed.

In some aspects of the invention NCI35676 analogs were designed around the benzotropolone scaffold using known synthetic methods. See Kerschensteiner et al. Tetrahedron 20110 67 1536 39 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Generally compounds of the invention are synthesized in a one pot reaction with the sequential addition of a phosphate citrate buffer pH 5 b horseradish peroxidase and c 3 hydrogen peroxide. This method provides a concise general synthetic route that can afford the benzotropolone derivative with a yield in the range of 15 60 .

In still other aspects of the invention the compounds of the invention are in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt.

A more detailed example of synthesizing compounds of the invention is provided in the Examples section below with reference to .

Compounds of the invention are Toll like receptor 1 2 complex TLR1 2 inhibitors. Compounds of the invention and compositions comprising a compound of the invention are useful in treating clinical conditions associated with acute inflammatory and chronic inflammatory diseases. In some instances the clinical condition comprises but is not limited to a clinical condition associated with viral infection atopic dermatitis psoriasis acne or sepsis. While clinical conditions associated with a wide variety of viral infections can be treated by methods of the invention in particular instances methods of the invention are used to treat a chronic inflammatory disease or an acute inflammatory disease caused by human cytomegalovirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis herpes simplex virus 1 or a combination thereof. TLR1 2 antagonists of this disclosure may also be beneficial in attenuating metastases of pulmonary tumor s . Other clinical conditions associated with stimulation of TLR1 2 which are known to one skilled in the art may also be treated by compounds of the invention.

Atopic dermatitis or eczema is an inflammatory skin disease that is associated with a hereditary predisposition to atopic conditions which include allergic rhinitis allergic keratoconjuntivitis asthma and eczema Nat. Rev. Immunol. 2004 4 211 222 .

Psoriasis is an inflammatory skin disease that is characterized clinically by cutaneous erythematous plaques with thick slivery scale Nat. Rev. Immunol. 2004 4 211 222 . Interestingly a previous report demonstrated that topical application of the TLR7 agonist imiquimod induced the spreading of a psoriatic plaque Microbes Infect. 2000 2 933 943 . Thus TLR activation may also play a role in the pathophysiology of psoriasis by exacerbating the disease process.

Acne vulgaris is an inflammatory skin disease that occurs mostly during adolescence and involves inflammation of the pilosebaceous unit. The anerobic bacterium has been associated with the inflammation in acne lesions. Kim et al. demonstrated that TLR2 on human monocytes can be activated by in vitro resulting in increased production of IL 12 and IL 8 J. Immunol. 2002 169 1535 1541 . Furthermore macrophages expressing TLR2 were found surrounding pilosebaceous units of histologic sections of acne lesions from patients J. Immunol. 2002 169 1535 1541 . Interestingly topical retinoids such as all trans retinoic acid and adapalene which are used clinically to treat acne have been shown to decrease TLR2 expression J. Immunol. 2005 174 2467 2470 . Tenaud et al. demonstrated that adapalene can decrease TLR2 expression on epidermal keratinocytes of explants of normal human skin and explants of acne lesions Exp. Dermatol. 2007 16 500 506. . Thus TLR2 has been implicated in the inflammatory process in acne and topical retinoids may help decrease the inflammation in acne lesions by decreasing expression and function of TLR2 Adv Dermatol. 2008 24 71 87 .

The compounds of the present invention can be administered to a subject to achieve a desired physiological effect. Typically the subject is an animal often a mammal and more often a human. The compound can be administered in a variety of forms adapted to the chosen route of administration i.e. orally or parenterally. Parenteral administration in this respect includes but is not limited to the following routes intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous transepithelially dermal and rectal systemic.

The active compound can be orally administered for example with an inert diluent or with an assimilable edible carrier or it can be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules or it can be compressed into tablets. For oral therapeutic administration the active compound may be incorporated with excipient and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers and the like. Such compositions and preparations can contain at least 0.1 of active compound. The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that a suitable dosage will be obtained.

It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that a compound of the invention can be incorporated into sustained release preparations and formulations. The compounds of the present invention may be administered by controlled release means and or delivery devices capable of releasing the active ingredient TLR1 2 inhibitor at the required rate to maintain constant pharmacological activity for a desired period of time. Such dosage forms provide a supply of a drug to the body during a predetermined period of time and thus maintain drug levels in the therapeutic range for longer periods of time than conventional non controlled formulations

It will also be recognized by one skilled in the art that a compound of the invention can be formulated as a prodrug. In a prodrug formulation a compound of the invention is present in a substantially inactive derivative form that requires biotransformation either spontaneous or enzymatic within the organism to release the active drug. Prodrugs become the compounds of the invention which are pharmaceutically active in vivo when they undergo solvolysis under physiological conditions or undergo enzymatic degradation.

The therapeutic compounds of the present invention can be administered to a mammal alone or with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers the proportion of which is determined by the solubility and chemical nature of the compound chosen route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice.

The physician will determine the dosage of the present therapeutic agents which will be most suitable for prophylaxis or treatment and it will vary with the form of administration and the particular compound chosen and with the particular patient under treatment. The physician will generally wish to initiate treatment with small dosages by small increments until the optimum effect under the circumstances is reached where a therapeutically effective amount has been determined. The therapeutic dosage can generally be from about 0.1 to about 1000 mg day and or from 0.1 to about 50 mg Kg of bodyweight per day and can be administered in several different dosage units. Higher dosages on the order of about 2 to about 4 may be required for oral administration.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following examples thereof which are not intended to be limiting or exhaustive.

To identify novel TLR1 2 complex inhibitors a cell based assay was employed to screen the NCI 2 diversity small molecule library. This 1 363 compound library was chosen from the larger NCI library which has more than 140 000 compounds on the basis of availability purity and other pharmacological features such as relative rigidity number of rotatable bonds and chiral centers the absence of obvious leaving groups and weakly bounded heteroatoms etc. Screening was performed in a 96 well plate format using a previously established high throughput nitric oxide NO assay. See e.g. Cheng et al. 3 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011 133 3764 67 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Briefly synthetic triacylated lipoprotein Pam3CSK4 was employed to selectively activate TLR1 2 signaling resulting in the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase iNOS and the production of NO in RAW 264.7 macrophage cells. NO levels were monitored as an indicator of Pam3CSK4 induced TLR1 2 activation to evaluate the compound s inhibitory activity.

Nine initial hits were identified that inhibited TLR1 2 activity by at least 70 at 3.0 M with no significant cytotoxicity . The most potent compound was NCI35676 which showed a half maximal inhibitory concentration IC of 2.45 0.25 M and Table 2 . The specificity evaluation indicated that out of nine compounds only NCI35676 specifically inhibited TLR1 2 signaling and no other homologous TLRs .

A series of NCI35676 analogs were designed to explore the structure activity relationship SAR around the benzotropolone scaffold using a modification of previously developed synthetic methods. See Kerschensteiner et al. Tetrahedron 20110 67 1536 39 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety . Generally a one pot reaction with sequential addition of a phosphate citrate buffer pH 5 b horseradish peroxidase and c 3 HOproduces the bicyclic scaffold. This method provides a concise general synthetic route that can afford the benzotropolone derivative with a yield between about 15 and about 60 . Compound 2 was selected as a representative for the 2D NMR analysis for further analysis and characterization 1H 13C HSQC HMBC and COSY included in .

Further screening of 26 structural analogs yielded additional hits the most potent being compound 17 CU CPT22 which had an IC50 of 0.58 0.09 The improved ICof the top inhibitor compound 17 appears to be due to the addition of a six carbon aliphatic chain at the R6 position which likely allows for an increase of the hydrophobic contacts to the surface residues of the TLR1 2 complex.

Additionally the SAR for this series indicated that the amount of total hydroxyl groups were critical. Methylation of one hydroxyl group at the R1 position had no significant influence to its activity compound 4 while methylation all the four hydroxyl groups resulted in significant decrease of inhibition compound 6 Table 2 . Introduction of F at the R1 position decreased the activity about 20 fold which indicates an electron withdrawing group was not tolerated. The seven membered ring configuration in benzotropolone scaffold plays an important role for inhibitory activity as determined by Diels Alder 4 2 cycloaddition reaction compound 6 vs. compound 25 compound 9 vs. compound 26 . In the following SAR study the methoxy group was fixed at the R1 position. With this change no decrease in activity was observed and no by products in the synthesis were detected when R1 OH by products were detected . Meanwhile the seven membered ring in the benzotropolone scaffold was kept and substituent groups were introduced at the R6 position. The addition of a carboxyl group at the R6 position decreased the activity six fold compound 4 vs. compound 10 while methylation of this carboxyl group compound 11 returned the activity to the NCI35676 level indicating that R6 may be critical for the activity.

By introducing ethyl isopropyl or various aliphatic chains at this position it was found that compound 17 CU CPT22 with a six carbon chain possessed the highest inhibitory activity for TLR1 2 Table 2 . This increased inhibition was likely caused by the optimal fit of the six membered carbon chain into the substrate tunnel of the TLR1 hydrophobic region . When the ester was replaced with the amide group in compound 17 the activity slightly decreased compound 22 Table 2 . Reducing the carboxyl group to an alcohol or introducing large substitutions at the R6 position provided no significant change in activity compound 23 compound 24 . In summary compound 17 was identified as the lead structure which shows dose dependent inhibitory effects blocking PamCSK induced TLR1 2 activation with an ICof 0.58 0.09 M .

Biophysical tests were carried out for compound 17 along with the negative control compound 6 to demonstrate that compound 17 directly binds to the dimeric interface of TLR1 2. The TLR2 protein was expressed in the baculovirus insect cell expression system using the methods described by Kuroki et al. See Iwaki et al. 2 J. Biol Chem 2002 277 24315 20 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. The activity of the TLR2 protein was validated by the fluorescence anisotropy assay. It was demonstrated that compound 17 competes with PamCSKfor binding to TLR1 2 with an inhibition constant K of 0.41 0.07 M which is consistent with its potency observed in the whole cell assay. The anisotropy of rhodamine labeled PamCSKshowed a robust increase from 0.168 to 0.275 upon addition of TLR1 2 excitation 549 nm emission 566 nm Invivogen . This increase is consistent with the anisotropy changes seen with ligand receptor pairs of comparable sizes. Increasing compound 17 s concentration to 6 M decreased the anisotropy to background levels presumably due to release of the fluorescently labeled PamCSKprobe. This data was then fit to a one site competition model. Good fitting R2 0.98 inferred that compound 17 and PamCSKcompete for the same binding site on the TLR1 2 dimeric surface. Compound 6 was used as negative control in the anisotropy assay and demonstrated an ICof 40 M Table 1 . These results further support that compound 17 can compete with PamCSKbinding to TLR1 2.

One challenge to developing inhibitors to target TLRs is to engineer specificity and potency. There are at least 13 homologous TLRs present in murine macrophages all sharing a ligand binding domain with a double horseshoe shape. Compound 17 was therefore tested against a panel of homologous TLRs including TLR1 2 TLR2 6 TLR3 TLR4 and TLR7 using TLR specific ligands to selectively activate a particular TLR signaling pathway. Compound 17 was found to inhibit TLR1 2 signaling without affecting other TLRs showing it is highly selective in intact cells .

Furthermore compound 17 was found to have no significant cytotoxicity at the active dose. The low toxicity of CU CPT22 was also confirmed in RAW 264.7 cells using the established MTT methodology.

It is worth noting that compound 17 can inhibit TLR1 2 while no significant inhibition to TLR2 6 is observed at 0.5 M. Based on these experimental observations computational modeling was conducted to illustrate the potential binding model of CU CPT22 with TLR1 2. Comparing the crystal structure of TLR1 TLR2 PamCSK and TLR2 TLR6 PamCSK two lipid chains of PamCSKand PamCSKinteract With the hydrophobic channel in TLR2 and the amide bound lipid chain of PamCSKlies in the hydrophobic channel of TLR1 which does not exist between PamCSKand TLR6. The specificity of compound 17 for TLR1 2 is probably caused by the hydrophobic interactions between the hydrophobic chain at R6 of the compound and the hydrophobic channel of TLR1 . The predicted binding model is in good agreement with the results of the TLR specificity tests.

NMR spectra were acquired on Bruker 300 or 400 spectrometers running at 300 MHz or 400 MHz for H and 75 or 101 MHz for C respectively. H NMR spectra were recorded at 300 MHz in CDCl CD CO CD SO or CDCN using residual CHCl 7.28 ppm CH CO 2.05 ppm CH SO 2.50 ppm and CHCN 1.94 ppm as the internal standard. C NMR spectra were recorded at 75 MHz in CDCl CD CO or CD SO using residual CHCl 77.16 ppm CH CO 29.84 and 206.26 ppm CH SO 39.97 ppm and CHCN 1.32 and 118.26 ppm as internal reference. Thin layer chromatography was performed on Merck Kieselgel 60 F254 or Silicycle 60 F254 plates eluting with the solvent indicated visualized by a 254 nm UV lamp and stained with an ethanolic solution of 12 molybdophosphoric acid. Compounds were purified using flash chromatography FC Silica gel 60 200 400 mesh Sorbent Tech. or recrystallization. Mass spectrometry was performed at the mass spectrometry facility of the Department of Chemistry at University of Colorado at Boulder on a double focusing high resolution mass spectrometer.

RAW 264.7 Mouse leukaemic monocyte macrophage cell line cells were grown in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 FBS penicillin 100 U mL and streptomycin 100 mg mL . RAW cells were then planted in 96 well plates at 80 000 cells per well and grown for 24 h in the media descried previously at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator. After 24 h non adherent cells and media were removed and replaced with fresh unsupplemented RPMI 1640 medium. The adherent macrophages were treated with PamCSK CAS No. 112208 00 1 a synthetic triacylated lipopeptide LP that mimics the acylated amino terminus of bacterial LPs 200 ng mL Invivogen USA an agonist of TLR1 2 and then added different concentrates of potential inhibitor. Two rows were only treated with PamCSKas control. Plates were then incubated for an additional 24 h. Following incubation 100 L of media was removed and added to flat black 96 well microfluor plates Thermo Scientific MA USA . To each well 10 L of 2 3 diaminonaphthalene 0.05 mg mL in 0.62 M aqueous HCl solution was added and incubated for 15 min in the dark. The reaction was quenched by addition of 5 L of a 3 M aqueous NaOH solution and the plate was read on Beckman Coulter DTX880 reader Beckman Coulter Calif. USA with excitation at 365 nm and emission at 450 nm. The nitrite a stable metabolite of nitric oxide concentration was determined from a nitrite standard curve. The inhibition rate of NO release was determined using the following formula Inhibition PamCSK OD Compounds OD PamCSK OD Control OD 100. The ICvalues for both inhibition and cytotoxicity were determined graphically using software Origin v7.5.

RAW 264.7 cells were planted in 6 well plates at 1 000 000 cells per well with 3 mL of medium RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 FBS penicillin 100 U mL and streptomycin 100 mg mL and grown for 24 h at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator. After 24 h non adherent cells and media were removed and replaced with fresh RPMI 1640 medium 3 mL well . Two wells of adherent macrophages were treated with PamCSK Invivogen 300 ng mL as the positive control two wells was treated with 8 M compound 17 and the other two wells ware treated with 8 M compound DMSO. Another 6 well plate were treated with PamCSK Invivogen 300 ng mL and different concentration of 17. Plates were then incubated for an additional 24 h. The medium was removed the cells were washed with PBS 3 1 mL 6 well plates was put on ice then 500 L of lysis buffer was added in each well Lysis Buffer 120 L 0.5M EDTA 12 mL Mammalian Protein Extraction Reagent 100 L cocktail 0.36 mL NaCl 5 M aqueous . After 5 min the mixture was transferred into corresponding 1.5 mL tube spun for 20 min at 13.2 K rpm in a cold room. Approximately 400 L of supernatant were collected into new tubes frozen at 80 C. until ready for cytokine measurement. The production of the cytokine interleukin 1 IL 1 and TNF was quantified with enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISA using cytokine specific capture antibodies biotinylated monoclonal detection antibodies and recombinant human cytokine standards according to commercially available ELISA kits from R D Systems. The cytokine level in each sample was determined in duplicate.

This assay was run in a similar manor as the In Vitro TLR1 2 Inhibition Assay . High molecule weight Poly I C LPS lipopolysaccharide FSL 1 Synthetic diacylated lipoprotein TLR2 TLR6 ligand commercially available from Invivogen USA and R848 4 amino 2 ethoxymethyl were used to selectively activate TLR3 TLR4 TLR2 6 and TLR7 in place of PamCSK respectively.

The TLR2 protein was expressed in the baculovirus insect cell expression system using the methods described by Kuroki et al. Monolayers of Sf 9 cells were cotransfected with Bright Baculovirus DNA BD BaculoGold and the pVL1393 plasmid vector containing cDNA for TLR2. Viral titers were amplified to 5 10 10 mL virus particles. The recombinant viruses were used to infect suspension high 5 insect cells in serum free medium Insect XPRESS Protein free Insect Cell Medium with L glutamine Lonza at 27 C. 130 rpm. After incubation of high 5 insect cells with recombinant viruses for 3 days the cells changed to green Supplementary Figure S7a S7b the medium was collected after low speed centrifugation and dialyzed Slide A Lyzer G2 Dialysis Cassettes 10K MWCO Pierce against 0.1 M Tris buffer pH 8.0 containing 0.3 M NaCl. The dialyzed medium was filtered and purified by a column of nickelnitrilotriacetic acid beads Qiagen Santa Clarita Calif. according to the manufacturer s instruction. The purified protein was finally dialyzed against 5 mM Tris buffer pH 7.4 containing 0.15 M NaCl and condensed by centrifugal concentrator Millipore 10 000 MWCO . Electrophoretic analysis revealed that TLR2 exhibited a single band with a molecular mass of 75 kDa Supplementary Figure S7c . Approximately 100 ng of TLR2 protein was obtained from 500 mL of medium.

In 500 L Tris buffer pH 7.2 add 10 L 1 ng mL rhodamine labeled PamCSK test the fluorescence anisotropy at excitation of 549 nm and emission of 566 nm Horiba Fluorolog 3 . And 5 L 20 M TLR1 R D and 5 L 20 M TLR2 was added into the above buffer then retest the anisotropy. Following compound 17 or compound 6 was added in the buffer from the concentration of 0 to 6 M and the fluorescence anisotropy was tested in the corresponding concentration.

Fluorescence polarization experiments were performed at 25 C. using a Horiba Fluorolog 3 fluorometer. For direct binding measurements serial dilutions of TLR1 R D MN and TLR2 were made in Tris buffer pH 7.2 and an aliquot 10 L of 1 ng mL rhodamine labeled PamCSK was added to a total volume of 500 L. The competition binding solution was incubated for 30 minutes at 25 C. Serial dilutions of compound 17 or compound 6 were incubated with 20 M TLR1 20 M TLR2 and rhodamine labeled PamCSKfor 30 min at room temperature.

Regression analysis was carried out using Origin 7.5 OriginLab ligand binding macro module. Experimental data were fitted into equation 1 to determine the ICvalues which in turn can be related to the known affinity of the PamCSK K 1.2 nM to acquire the inhibitory constant Kusing equation 2 . Equation 1 y min max min 1 10 total binding x log concentration of and rhodamine labeled PamCSK min nonspecific binding max maximum binding in absence of ligand . Equation 2 K IC 1 L K L concentration of rhodamine labeled PamCSK .

MTT Cytotoxicity Assay. In a 96 well plate 10 000 cells in 200 L media RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 FBS penicillin 100 U mL and streptomycin 100 mg mL per well. Eight wells were left empty for blank controls. The plates were incubated 37 C. 5 CO overnight to allow the cells to attach to the wells. Add 20 ul 5 mg mL MTT solution to each well. Place on a shaking table 150 rpm for 5 minutes to thoroughly mix the MTT into the media. Incubate 37 C. 5 CO for 4 hours to allow the MTT to be metabolized. Dump off the media. Dry plate on paper towels to remove residue. Resuspend formazan MTT metabolic product in 200 ul DMSO. Place on a shaking table 150 rpm for 5 minutes to thoroughly mix the formazan into the solvent. When a clear difference could be seen by naked eye results were read by spectrophotometer at 560 nm. Optical density should be directly correlated with cell quantity. Cytotoxicity was determined using the following formula Cytotoxicity 1 Compounds OD Background OD Control OD Background OD 100.

Compound 17 was docked into the TLR1 TLR2 binding domain PDB 2Z7X using Glide 5.6. The molecule was created as appropriate with multiple protonation and tautomeric states. The TLR1 2 conformations were prepared using standard Glide protocols. This includes addition of hydrogens restrained energy minimizations of the protein structure with the Optimized Potentials for Liquid Simulations All Atom OPLS AA force field and finally setting up the Glide grids using the Protein and Ligand Preparation Module.

A Catechol 110 mg 1.00 mmol and pyrogallol 126 mg 1.00 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of acetone pH 5.0 phosphate citrate 1 1 0.2 M NaHPO 0.1 M citrate buffer 1 5 v v 5 mL which contained 0.1 mg horseradish peroxidase cas 9003 99 0 5KU Fisher . Four aliquots of 3 HO 2 mL each were added every 10 min over 40 min while stirring. After 2 3 h the resulting orange precipitate was filtered off washed with water 3 6 mL and dried under high vacuum condition to give a mixture of 2 and NCI35676 purpurogallin . The mixture was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 4 as eluent to give 2 as an orange solid 23 mg 11 .

B Using 3 methoxycatechol 140 mg 1.00 mmol instead of catechol and gallic acid 170 mg 1.00 mmol instead of the pyrogallol gave the single orange solid product 10 160 mg 57 .

To a suspension of purpurogallin 44 mg 0.200 mmol and anhydrous KCO 332 mg 2.40 mmol in anhydrous DMF 8 mL maintained at 0 C. under nitrogen was added dropwise iodomethane 99 L 1.6 mmol and the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. After this time the reaction was quenched with water 10 mL and the mixture stirred for 20 min. After addition of EtOAc 20 mL the organic phase was washed with water 3 20 mL and the combined aqueous phases were extracted with EtOAc 20 mL . The organic extracts were dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. Purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 5 as eluent gave 6 as white solid 49 mg 89 .

A solution of 6 28 mg 0.101 mmol and maleic anhydride 36.0 mg 0.200 mmol in toluene 2 mL was heated to reflux in a sealed schlenk tube for 24 h. The mixture was then evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure and the resulting crude solid was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 6 as eluent to give 25 as white solid 28 mg 75 .

Acetic anhydride 56.7 L 0.600 mmol was added slowly over a period of 30 min to a stirred solution of purpurogallin 44 mg 0.200 mmol in 2 mL of pyridine at 110 C. After an additional 12 h 10 mL 1M HCl was added and then extracted with dichloromethane 3 15 mL . The combined organic phases were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to give a yellow solid. This was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 5 as eluent to give 8 as a yellow powder 43 mg 54 .

Following the general method IA using 4 methylbenzene 1 2 diol 124 mg 1.00 mmol instead of catechol gave an orange solid. The solid mixture was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 4 as eluent to give 1 as an orange solid 23 mg 10 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.91 s 1H 9.64 s 2H 7.60 d J 11.8 Hz 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.19 d J 9.3 Hz 1H 6.83 dd J 11.8 9.5 Hz 1H 3.39 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 185.01 155.37 149.33 146.02 130.38 129.55 129.42 125.25 123.14 121.71 118.64 22.17 LRMS ESI calcd for CHO M Na 241.2 obsd M Na 241.0.

Following the general method IA gave 2 as an orange solid 23 mg 11 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.97 s 1H 9.86 s 1H 9.53 s 1H 7.45 td J 14.4 10.1 Hz 3H 7.19 dd J 9.5 0.8 Hz 1H 6.77 dd J 11.3 9.5 Hz 1H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 184.82 155.15 150.89 146.56 135.95 131.88 125.50 123.27 122.72 120.66 119.04 LRMS ESI calcd for CHO M Na 227.1 obsd M Na 227.0.

Following the general method IA using 3 fluorocatechol 128 mg 1.00 mmol instead of catechol gave an orange solid. The mixture was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 4 as eluent to give 3 as an orange solid 20 mg 9 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 15.45 s 1H 9.81 s 2H 7.53 7.37 m 2H 7.19 dd J 9.6 0.7 Hz 1H 6.86 dd J 11.4 9.6 Hz 1H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 184.20 155.77 154.17 152.58 134.70 132.41 124.98 118.61 118.17 110.76 110.50 HRMS ESI calcd for CHFO M H 221.0255 obsd M H 221.0255.

Following the general method IA using 3 methoxycatechol 140.1 mg 1 mmol instead of catechol get an orange solid mixture. The mixture was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 4 as eluent to give 4 as an orange solid 26 mg 11 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 15.14 s 1H 9.50 s 1H 9.38 s 1H 7.52 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 7.21 7.11 m 2H 6.83 dd J 11.3 9.5 Hz 1H 3.97 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.00 155.57 152.74 151.27 135.85 135.13 133.26 124.36 117.53 116.51 106.97 56.37 LRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 233.1 obsd M H 233.0.

Following the general method II to a suspension of purpurogallin 44 mg 0.200 mmol and anhydrous KCO 249 mg 1.80 mmol in anhydrous DMF 8 mL maintained at 0 C. under nitrogen was added dropwise iodomethane 62 L 1.00 mmol and the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature. Then the reaction was quenched with water 10 mL and the mixture was stiffed for an additional 20 min. After addition of EtOAc 20 mL the organic phase was washed with water 3 20 mL and the combined aqueous phases were extracted with EtOAc 20 mL . The organic extracts were dried over NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 6 as eluent give 5 as white solid 36 mg 70 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 15.27 s 1H 7.40 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 7.08 s 1H 6.85 dt J 11.1 9.3 Hz 2H 3.96 s 3H 3.83 s 3H 3.78 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 185.62 158.58 157.95 157.02 136.66 136.30 134.41 124.56 117.50 114.00 106.64 60.11 56.69 56.46 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 263.0914 obsd M H 263.0914.

Following the general method II gave 6 as white solid 49 mg 89 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 7.07 s 1H 7.02 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 6.56 dd J 11.6 8.6 Hz 1H 6.29 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 3.91 s 1H 3.84 s 1H 3.79 s 1H 3.72 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 184.58 158.40 155.27 152.06 143.30 132.57 128.73 125.16 123.95 107.74 105.23 62.63 61.02 56.44 56.18 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 277.1066 obsd M H 277.1070.

Following the general method III using fewer equivalence of acetic anhydride 18.9 L 0.200 mmol in the reaction gave an orange solid mixture. The resulting solid was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 5 as eluent to give 7 as an orange powder 12 mg 23 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 15.53 s 1H 11.23 s 1H 9.71 s 1H 7.38 t J 13.5 Hz 1H 7.07 d J 8.9 Hz 1H 6.87 dd J 10.9 9.0 Hz 2H 2.32 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.57 168.48 158.20 156.36 155.72 138.93 134.08 127.02 126.98 116.78 115.03 110.07 20.79 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 261.0397 obsd M H 261.0404.

Following the general method III gave 8 as a yellow powder 43 mg 54 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.96 7.75 7.68 m 1H 7.57 7.50 m 2H 6.95 dd J 11.5 9.1 Hz 1H 2.38 s 1H 2.37 s 1H 2.32 s 1H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 184.96 168.84 167.39 167.36 159.10 150.57 147.22 140.21 136.21 132.11 129.37 123.20 120.62 117.88 20.76 20.55 20.29 FIRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 345.1 obsd M H 345.1.

Following the general method HI using more equivalence of acetic anhydride 18.9 L 0.200 mmol in the reaction get a light yellow solid. This was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 5 as eluent to give 9 as a light yellow powder 43.7 mg 56 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 7.84 s 1H 7.47 dd J 12.3 0.7 Hz 1H 7.11 dd J 8.7 0.7 Hz 1H 6.81 dd J 11.6 8.7 Hz 1H 2.39 2.32 m 6H 2.27 s 3H 2.25 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 180.87 168.43 168.17 168.13 167.64 149.55 145.48 143.63 137.23 135.06 134.26 128.21 124.70 124.18 123.79 20.86 20.59 20.31 HRMS EST calcd for CHO M H 389.0857 obsd M H 389.0867.

Following method IB gave the orange solid product 10 160 mg 57 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.99 s 1H 13.41 s 1H 9.83 s 1H 9.65 s 1H 8.65 8.18 m 1H 7.63 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.45 s 1H 4.00 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.52 168.14 154.00 152.49 151.84 138.49 137.96 130.51 124.99 116.74 115.12 110.19 56.66 LRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 277.1 obsd M H 277.0.

Gallic acid 850.6 mg 5 mmol and dissolved in MeOH 10 mL . Then conc. HSO 272.7 L 11 mmol was added to the solution and was stirred at reflux for 12 h monitored by TLC . The solvent was concentrated under reduced pressure. After extraction with EtOAc 20 mL the solution was washed with distilled water 3 10 mL and saturated NaHCO 20 mL and dried over NaSO. The solution was evaporated and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 2 as eluent to give methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate as a white powder 782.6 mg 85 H NMR 300 MHz MeOD 7.06 s 2H 4.98 s 3H 3.82 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 166.76 146.09 146.02 138.84 119.73 108.94 52.04.

Following the general method IB using methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 185 mg 1.00 mmol instead of gallic acid gave the orange precipitate. The resulting orange precipitate was filtered off washed with water 3 6 mL and dried under high vacuum to give the orange solid product 11 172 mg 59 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.94 s 1H 9.90 s 1H 9.73 s 1H 8.39 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 7.58 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 7.47 s 1H 4.01 s 3H 3.90 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.60 167.11 154.19 152.49 151.91 138.52 138.24 130.23 123.91 116.69 114.49 110.49 56.71 53.42 LRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 293.2 obsd M H 293.1.

Following the general method IB using 1 2 benzenediol 101 mg 1.00 mmol instead of 3 methoxycatechol gave 12 as an orange precipitate 121 mg 49 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.82 s 1H 10.41 s 1H 9.68 s 1H 8.32 d J 0.9 Hz 1H 7.65 dd J 10.3 5.3 Hz 2H 7.48 d J 8.6 Hz 1H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 185.38 168.07 153.55 151.65 149.04 139.18 129.19 128.64 123.98 122.43 120.79 116.42 LRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 247.1 obsd M H 247.0.

Following 12 synthetic method using 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 185 mg 1.00 mmol instead of gallic acid gave 13 as an orange precipitate 141 mg 54 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 14.67 s 1H 8.45 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 8.19 s 1H 8.01 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 7.55 s 2H 6.54 s 1H 3.99 s 311 C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 185.43 167.00 153.68 151.74 149.36 139.24 128.91 128.87 122.81 122.40 120.69 115.68 53.39 LRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 261.0 obsd M H 261.0.

Following methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate synthetic method using EtOH 10 mL instead of MeOH gave ethyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate as a white solid 903 mg 91 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 9.26 s 2H 8.93 s 1H 6.94 s 2H 4.20 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 1.27 t J 7.1 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 166.26 145.99 138.77 120.01 108.89 60.44 14.71.

Following general method IB using ethyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 198 mg 1.00 mmol instead of gallic acid gave 14 as an orange precipitate 158.6 mg 51.8 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.95 s 1H 9.89 s 1H 9.72 s 1H 8.37 d J 1.6 1H 7.59 d J 1.6 Hz 1H 7.46 s 1H 4.35 tt J 7.1 3.5 Hz 2H 4.01 s 3H 1.37 t J 7.1 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.56 166.57 154.15 152.48 151.89 138.44 138.20 130.24 124.16 116.68 114.50 110.44 62.21 56.71 14.62 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 305.0668 obsd M H 305.0666.

Following the method used for methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate using isopropyl alcohol 10 mL instead of MeOH gave isopropyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate as a white solid 941 mg 89 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 9.18 m 3H 6.93 s 2H 5.42 4.82 m 1H 1.26 m 6H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 165.75 145.95 138.68 120.39 108.88 67.57 22.20.

Following general method IB using isopropyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 198 mg 1.00 mmol instead of gallic acid gave 15 as an orange precipitate 157 mg 49 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.96 s 1H 9.88 s 1H 9.72 s 1H 8.53 8.28 m 1H 7.58 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.45 s 1H 5.30 5.02 m 1H 4.02 s 3H 1.37 d 6H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.55 166.06 154.13 152.49 151.88 138.38 138.17 130.27 124.51 116.70 114.54 110.42 69.83 56.73 22.08 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 319.0812 obsd M H 319.0813.

Following the method used for methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate using 1 butanol 10 mL instead of MeOH gave butyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate as a white solid 644 mg 57 . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 8.9.25 8.95 m 3H 6.95 s 2H 4.16 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 1.69 1.56 m 2H 1.48 1.30 m 2H 0.92 t J 7.4 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 166.30 145.99 138.78 120.01 108.89 64.12 30.80 19.25 14.06.

Following general method IB using butyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 226 mg 1.00 mmol instead of gallic acid gave 16 as an orange precipitate 171 mg 51 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.95 s 1H 9.89 s 1H 9.73 s 1H 8.36 d J 1.1 Hz 1H 7.58 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.44 s 1H 4.31 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 4.01 s 3H 1.82 1.64 m 2H 1.53 1.32 m 2H 0.95 t J 7.4 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.57 166.61 154.17 152.49 151.90 138.47 138.22 130.24 124.15 116.70 114.45 110.47 65.89 56.72 30.68 19.17 14.10 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 333.0978 obsd M H 333.0979.

Following methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate synthetic method using 1 hexanol 10 mL instead of MeOH gave hexyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate as a white solid 549 mg 43 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.35 s 2H 5.99 s 3H 4.29 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 1.85 1.68 m 2H 1.52 1.24 m 6H 0.92 dd J 8.6 4.3 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz Acetone 165.83 145.08 137.67 121.21 108.81 64.10 31.32 28.60 25.57 22.33 13.38.

Following general method IB using hexyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 254 mg 1.00 mmol instead of gallic acid to give CU CPT22 as an orange precipitate 195 mg 54 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.93 s 1H 9.73 s 2H 8.32 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 7.56 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.40 s 1H 4.28 dd J 8.6 4.8 Hz 2H 4.01 s 3H 1.72 dd J 14.5 6.8 Hz 2H 1.52 1.18 m 6H 0.97 0.77 m 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.51 166.55 154.13 152.45 151.89 138.45 138.23 130.19 124.11 116.66 114.41 110.40 66.16 56.67 31.34 28.53 25.52 22.45 14.33 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 361.1286 obsd M H 361.1292.

Following methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate synthetic method using 1 octanol 10 mL instead of MeOH gave octyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate as a white solid 643.7 mg 46 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 9.15 s 3H 6.94 s 2H 4.15 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 1.64 dd J 14.2 6.7 Hz 2H 1.45 1.21 m 10H 0.86 t 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 166.29 145.99 138.79 119.99 108.88 64.40 31.68 29.11 29.10 28.74 26.00 22.53 14.41.

Following general method IB using octyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 254 mg 1.00 mmol instead of gallic acid gave 18 as an orange precipitate 205.7 mg 52.7 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.94 s 1H 9.88 s 1H 9.71 s 1H 8.34 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 7.57 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.41 s 1H 4.29 t J 6.7 Hz 2H 4.01 s 3H 1.81 1.64 m 2H 1.45 1.17 m 10H 0.85 dd J 8.8 4.8 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.53 166.57 154.15 152.46 151.89 138.46 138.22 130.21 124.13 116.67 114.42 110.42 66.17 56.68 31.67 29.10 29.05 28.56 25.87 22.53 14.40 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 389.1606 obsd M H 389.1605.

Following the method used for methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate using 1 decanol 10 mL instead of MeOH gave decyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate as a white solid 743 mg 48 H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.12 s 3H 6.95 s 2H 4.15 t J 6.5 Hz 2H 1.64 dd J 13.9 6.8 Hz 2H 1.40 1.14 m 14H 0.85 t J 6.7 Hz 3H C NMR 101 MHz DMSO 166.32 146.00 138.80 120.03 108.99 108.92 64.40 31.76 29.45 29.42 29.32 29.16 28.75 25.99 22.56 14.40.

Following general method IB using decyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 310 mg 1.00 mmol instead of gallic acid gave 19 as an orange precipitate 222 mg 53 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.96 s 1H 9.76 s 2H 8.34 s 1H 7.57 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 4.29 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 4.01 s 3H 1.82 1.64 m 2H 1.47 1.14 m 14H 0.83 t J 6.6 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.54 166.58 154.16 152.47 151.90 138.47 138.23 130.22 124.13 116.68 114.43 110.43 66.17 56.68 31.75 29.38 29.14 29.10 28.54 25.85 22.54 14.39 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 417.1914 obsd M H 417.1918.

Following the method used for methyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate using 1 tetradecanol 10 g instead of MeOH to give tetradecyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate as a white solid 754.9 mg 41.2 H NMR 300 MHz Acetone 7.13 s 2H 4.22 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 1.80 1.65 m 2H 1.54 1.21 m 22H 0.88 m 3H C NMR 75 MHz Acetone 165.83 145.10 137.69 121.21 108.83 99.98 64.10 31.73 25.90 22.42 13.45.

Following general method IB using tetradecyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzoate 366.5 mg 1 mmol instead of gallic acid gave 20 as an orange precipitate 195 mg 41 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.94 s 1H 9.81 d 2H 8.36 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 7.58 d J 1.5 Hz 1H 7.43 s 1H 4.30 t J 6.6 Hz 2H 4.01 s 3H 1.73 ddd J 8.3 6.5 4.4 Hz 2H 1.31 1.15 m 22H 0.84 dd J 8.8 4.7 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.56 166.61 154.14 152.49 151.89 138.46 138.36 130.17 124.10 116.69 114.46 110.44 66.15 56.68 31.74 29.49 29.45 29.36 29.31 29.15 29.03 28.52 25.82 22.54 14.40 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 473.2547 obsd M H 473.2544.

Gallic acid 1.70 g 10.0 mmol and anhydrous KCO 11.3 g 82.0 mmol in DMF 80 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. BnBr 14.3 mL 120 mmol was added dropwise into the solution over 30 min at 40 C. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was stirred for 12 h at 40 C. then additional HO 40 mL and EtOAc 100 mL were added in the flask. The organic layer was washed with HO 3 100 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and was evaporated to dryness in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in aqueous ethanol 50 100 mL containing 5 M NaOH and refluxed for 12 h. The solution was diluted with HO 50 mL adjusted to pH 2 with concentrated HCl and stirred for 30 min at rt. The precipitate was collected and recrystallized from methanol to give colorless needle crystal of 3 4 5 tris benzyloxy benzoic acid 3.75 g 85 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 12.95 s 1H 7.51 7.26 m 17H 5.19 s 4H 5.05 s 2H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 167.29 152.45 141.41 137.83 137.30 128.88 128.65 128.54 128.48 128.35 128.24 128.02 127.06 126.86 126.45 108.64 74.68 70.65.

To a solution of 3 4 5 tris benzyloxy benzoic acid 440 mg 1 mmol in dry dichloromethane 5 mL was added HATU 342 mg 0.900 mmol DIPEA 0.35 mL 2.00 mmol and 1 butanamine 98 L 1.00 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight and the solution was evaporated and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 6 as eluent gave 3 4 5 tris benzyloxy N butylbenzamide as a white solid 398 mg 80 H NMR 300 MHz Acetone 7.82 7.68 m 1H 7.59 7.19 m 17H 5.18 s 4H 5.09 s 2H 3.38 td J 7.1 5.9 Hz 2H 1.67 1.50 m 2H 1.46 1.26 m 6H 0.90 dd J 8.3 5.4 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz Acetone 165.64 152.60 140.48 138.08 137.28 130.65 128.39 128.24 127.99 127.82 127.64 106.63 74.56 70.77 39.62 31.45 29.59 7.82 26.55 22.39 13.43.

To a solution of 3 4 5 tris benzyloxy N butylbenzamide 198 mg 0.400 mmol in THF MeOH 15 mL 1 1 v v was added palladium hydroxide on carbon palladium 10 wt on carbon . The suspension was stirred for 13 h at room temperature under a Hatmosphere. The mixture was filtered through Celite and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure using ethyl acetate hexane 1 4 as eluent give N butyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzamide as a white solid 46 mg 51 H NMR 300 MHz Acetone 8.15 s 2H 7.62 s 1H 7.06 s 2H 3.46 3.25 m 2H 1.57 dq J 7.5 6.6 Hz 2H 1.43 1.25 m 2H 0.91 t J 7.3 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz Acetone 167.10 145.24 135.96 125.83 106.81 39.35 31.61 19.90 13.24.

Following general method IB using N butyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzamide 113 mg 0.500 mmol instead of gallic acid to give 21 as an orange precipitate 78 mg 46 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.98 s 1H 9.74 9.54 m 2H 8.60 dd J 6.6 2.9 Hz 1H 8.02 s 1H 7.47 s 1H 7.29 s 1H 4.00 s 3H 3.26 dt J 12.8 3.5 Hz 2H 1.63 1.46 m 2H 1.45 1.05 m 78 0.86 d J 6.6 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.10 167.66 154.32 152.60 151.51 137.05 134.78 131.27 130.21 116.56 115.59 108.93 56.50 31.48 29.41 26.64 22.52 14.39 HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO M H 360.1454 obsd M H 360.1452.

Following the general method of 21 we get 22 as an orange solid 76 mg 42 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 14.98 s 1H 9.74 9.54 m 2H 8.60 dd J 6.6 2.9 Hz 1H 8.02 s 1H 7.47 s 1H 7.29 s 1H 4.00 s 3H 3.26 m 2H 1.63 1.46 m 2H 1.45 1.05 m 78 0.86 d J 6.6 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.10 167.66 154.32 152.60 151.51 137.05 134.78 131.27 130.21 116.56 115.59 108.93 56.50 31.48 29.41 26.64 22.52 14.39 HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO M H 360.1454 obsd M H 360.1452.

A solution of benzyl 3 4 5 tris benzyloxy benzoate 1.06 g 2.00 mmol in THY 10 mL was added to a stiffed suspension of lithium aluminium hydride 379 mg 8.00 mmol in THF 15 mL at 0 C. over 1 hr. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 12 h and subsequently cooled to 0 C. before slowing addition of water 40 mL . The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 20 mL . The organic extracts were dried with NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. Purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 2 as eluent gave 3 4 5 tris benzyloxy phenyl methanol as a colorless oil 505 mg 59 H NMR 300 MHz Acetonitrile 7.55 7.20 m 15H 6.73 s 2H 5.10 s 4H 4.97 s 2H 4.48 d J 5.8 Hz 2H 3.19 t J 5.9 Hz 1H C NMR 75 MHz Acetonitrile 153.88 139.41 139.37 138.70 129.73 129.63 129.39 129.17 129.04 106.77 75.85 71.83 64.93.

To a solution of 3 4 5 tris benzyloxy phenyl methanol 171 mg 0.401 mmol in THF MeOH 15 mL 1 1 v v was added palladium hydroxide on carbon palladium 10 wt on carbon . The suspension was stirred for 13 h at room temperature under a Hatmosphere. The mixture was filtered through Celite and the filtrate was evaporated and purified by flash chromatography on silica gel using ethyl acetate hexane 1 2 as eluent give 5 hydroxymethyl benzene 1 2 3 triol as a colorless oil 33 mg 53 H NMR 300 MHz Acetone 7.58 s 2H 6.42 s 2H 4.42 s 2H C NMR 75 MHz Acetone 145.50 133.52 131.60 106.29 106.24 105.86 63.94.

Following general method IB using 5 hydroxymethyl benzene 1 2 3 triol 78 mg 0.500 mmol instead of gallic acid gave 23 as an orange precipitate 68 mg 52 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 15.05 s 1H 9.47 s 1H 9.29 s 1H 7.54 s 1H 7.18 6.98 m 2H 5.53 dd J 7.4 4.0 Hz 1H 4.43 d J 5.0 Hz 2H 3.96 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 182.50 154.53 152.95 151.15 137.75 135.25 133.02 131.39 117.59 116.16 106.91 66.10 56.37 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 263.0558 obsd M H 263.0561.

Following general synthesize method of N butyl 3 4 5 trihydroxybenzamide using o toluidine 160 pt 1.00 mmol instead of 1 butanamine gave an oil mixture. This was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel. Using ethyl acetate hexane 1 4 as eluent gave 3 4 5 trihydroxy N o tolylbenzamide as a colorless oil 203.77 mg 78.6 H NMR 300 MHz Acetone 8.77 s 1H 8.18 s 2H 7.66 7.56 m 1H 7.28 7.02 m 5H 2.33 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz Acetone 165.28 145.31 136.90 136.36 132.12 130.23 125.99 125.92 125.20 125.17 125.05 124.93 107.07 17.31.

Following general method IB using 3 4 5 trihydroxy N o tolylbenzamide 128 mg 0.500 mmol instead of gallic acid to give 24 as an orange precipitate 85 mg 45 H NMR 300 MHz DMSO 15.00 s 1H 10.07 s 1H 9.73 d 2H 8.20 d J 1.1 Hz 1H 7.54 d J 1.4 Hz 1H 7.42 7.10 m 5H 4.01 s 3H 2.27 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz DMSO 183.28 167.13 154.44 152.62 151.62 137.27 136.88 135.43 134.06 131.15 130.85 130.16 126.76 126.51 116.63 115.61 109.23 56.55 18.46 FIRMS ESI calcd for CHNO M H 366.0984 obsd M H 366.0982.

25 Following general method II gave 25 as a white solid 28 mg 75 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 6.65 6.56 m 2H 6.16 d J 9.2 Hz 1H 4.16 dd J 7.2 2.6 Hz 1H 3.98 d J 0.8 Hz 1H 3.95 s 311 3.91 s 3H 3.84 s 3H 3.74 dd J 9.3 2.4 Hz 1H 3.66 s 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 188.17 171.15 166.70 157.30 156.93 143.10 139.31 133.82 132.62 119.40 106.62 85.23 61.98 60.95 56.22 54.20 48.24 44.61 44.56 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M H 375.1066 obsd M H r 375.1075.

26 Following general method II using 9 39 mg 0.100 mmol instead of 6 to give 26 as an white solid 25 mg 52 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.26 s 1H 6.81 6.70 m 1H 6.21 6.09 m 1H 4.92 4.71 m 1H 4.40 4.23 m 1H 3.86 dd J 6.0 2.0 Hz 1H 2.313 2.29 m 12H C NMR 101 MHz DMSO 171.67 169.16 168.10 167.91 167.64 167.28 146.85 146.09 141.54 136.36 132.30 122.26 121.96 121.85 83.30 48.51 43.75 42.55 21.26 20.79 20.53 20.19 HRMS ESI calcd for CHO M Na 509.0678 obsd M Na 509.0691.

In vitro testing was conducted using primary cells isolated microglial cells incubated with Pam3CSK4 and CU CPT22 for 2 hours. shows the dose dependent inhibition of IL 1 by CU CPT22 in these primary cells.

In vivo testing was conducted by the administration of Pam3CSK4 and CU CPTP22. CU CPT22 5 ng or 50 ng suspended in 5 l sterile saline or vehicle was co administered with the TLR2 agonist Pam3CSK4 40 ng 4 l to the animal via the cisterna magna ICM with a 1 l air bubble separating the two reagents. Two hours after injection the animal s hippocampus was collected for pro inflammatory mRNA analysis using real time RT PCR procedures. The data demonstrate that CU CPT22 strongly inhibits IL 113 mRNA expression TNF mRNA expression and M 6 mRNA expression in vivo. N 8 for each group .

The foregoing discussion of the disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to limit the disclosure to the forms disclosed herein. The features of the aspects embodiments and configurations of the disclosure may be combined in alternate aspects embodiments and configurations other than those discussed above. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed disclosure requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed aspects embodiments and configurations. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate preferred embodiment of the disclosure.

Moreover though the description of the disclosure has included description of one or more aspects embodiments or configurations and certain variations and modifications other variations combinations and modifications are within the scope of the disclosure e.g. as may be within the skill and knowledge of those in the art after understanding the present disclosure. It is intended to obtain rights which include alternative aspects embodiments and configurations to the extent permitted including alternate interchangeable and or equivalent structures functions ranges or steps to those claimed whether or not such alternate interchangeable and or equivalent structures functions ranges or steps are disclosed herein and without intending to publicly dedicate any patentable subject matter.

