---

title: Method and apparatus for determining dynamic access tokens for location-based services
abstract: An approach is provided for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location-based service. The approach includes a method for determining one or more dynamic information items associated with at least one location in which at least one service is available. The approach also includes a method for determining at least one procedure for generating one or more access tokens associated with the at least one service. The approach further includes a method for processing and/or facilitating a processing of the one or more dynamic information items using, at least in part, the at least one procedure to cause, at least in part, a generation of the one or more access tokens.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09414348&OS=09414348&RS=09414348
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09414348
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20130422
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest is providing location based services to a plurality of users and user devices for example shared network communication services. In one scenario a service provider for instance a merchant a service provider may provide a wireless communication network for use by its patrons users where the users may or may not need to provide user credentials for accessing the network. In one example the network may require a security password which a user may obtain from the service provider. In another example a service provider may wish to avoid managing and requiring security passwords by providing an open access network so that the users may conveniently access the network without a need for a password. However the coverage of a wireless communication network may extend beyond a physical area where a service provider may intend or wish to provide the service at for example a merchant may wish to provide access to its network only to customers who are in the immediate area of his business location. Additionally the users may have a better user experience if they can easily access the network without access control and manual login. Therefore service providers and device manufacturers face significant challenges in providing a more efficient and user friendly access control to location based services.

Therefore there is a need for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining one or more dynamic information items associated with at least one location in which at least one service is available. The method also comprises determining at least one procedure for generating one or more access tokens associated with the at least one service. The method further comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more dynamic information items using at least in part the at least one procedure to cause at least in part a generation of the one or more access tokens.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine one or more dynamic information items associated with at least one location in which at least one service is available. The apparatus is also caused to determine at least one procedure for generating one or more access tokens associated with the at least one service. The apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more dynamic information items using at least in part the at least one procedure to cause at least in part a generation of the one or more access tokens.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine one or more dynamic information items associated with at least one location in which at least one service is available. The apparatus is also caused to determine at least one procedure for generating one or more access tokens associated with the at least one service. The apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more dynamic information items using at least in part the at least one procedure to cause at least in part a generation of the one or more access tokens.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining one or more dynamic information items associated with at least one location in which at least one service is available. The apparatus also comprises means for determining at least one procedure for generating one or more access tokens associated with the at least one service. The apparatus further comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of the one or more dynamic information items using at least in part the at least one procedure to cause at least in part a generation of the one or more access tokens.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed method claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address at least these problems a system of introduces the capability of a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service. Generally when users intent to utilize a service they may wish for a quick and simple process for accessing the service for example when a user utilizes a user device e.g. a tablet a mobile phone etc. to access a wireless communication service the user may wish to connect to the service quickly and without too many process steps. Similarly a service provider may wish to provide the wireless service with reduced management responsibility where a system and a process may quickly authenticate the users for accessing one or more services. As discussed in certain situations a proof of presence of a user device at a certain location area may be utilized to trigger delivery of certain information or access to services associated with that location area. However at times location information may not be sufficient to provide access to a wireless service since the wireless coverage area may go beyond an area of interest intended to the service provider. For example a restaurant owner may wish to provide wireless services only to those patrons who are in the restaurant and not in the parking lot area. In one scenario a user device may utilize a location information at a POI various dynamic information associated with that POI location and one or more procedures to determine generate one or more passwords or access tokens which may be submitted to a service provider s system for analysis and authentication. For example a token may include a unique identifier associated with the service provider site current interaction session information information related to the user device access privileges authentication credentials security information etc. In one instance the dynamic information may include location information of a user device determined by analyzing one or more signals from one or more sources within a certain physical location information on one or more radio frequency identification RFID tags radio frequency RF identifiers or the like wherein the signals may be determined received via one or more RF communication protocols proximity based e.g. Bluetooth near field communications NFC Bluetooth Low Energy BLE Bluetooth Smart etc. or network based communication channels.

In one embodiment a user device may determine an access token based on a procedure determined by a service provider who is providing a service to which the user device is requesting an access. In scenario a procedure may indicate that an access token is to include dynamic information for example location information of the service provider location of the user device within a marked region e.g. inside a store information of one or more RFID tags located within the marked region time of day user device type one or more physiological information items associated with the user of the user device or the like. In one embodiment the location of the user device within a marked region e.g. inside a store may be determined by receiving and analyzing a plurality of signals from sources available within the marked region. For example a distance from a radio frequency source may be measured by analyzing reported transmission power at the source and a received signal strength indicator RSSI and applying a radio propagation model e.g. an indoor propagation model. In one embodiment various determined dynamic information may be processed by an algorithm at a user device and according to a procedure indicated by a service provider for generating one or more access tokens. In various embodiments a procedure may be provided presented to a user device via one or more messages e.g. a text message graphical representations e.g. barcodes and the like. In one scenario a service provider may mark one or more areas regions of interest by utilizing various RF identifiers and tags where each area region may be associated with different or different levels of services.

In one use case scenario a user enters an area of an establishment e.g. a restaurant a coffee shop a hotel lobby etc. where a service provider merchant provides a wireless network service. The user may scan a graphical posting e.g. a barcode tap an NFC tag or the like which may be posted placed near the entry point whereby the user device may request receive e.g. download procedures or an application which may be utilized in generating one or more access tokens for accessing the wireless network service. In one scenario the user device may start scanning the area for RF identifiers and or the user may be presented e.g. via a UI with instructions to go to certain spots in the area so that the user device may to receive one or more dynamic signals and or information items. In one scenario an algorithm or an application on the user device may generate one or more access tokens by utilizing the earlier determined procedures and the one or more dynamic signals and or information items. In one scenario the user device may present an access request and the one or more access tokens to a device system associated with the wireless network service wherein the system may process the access tokens to determine whether or not to grant an access to the user device.

In various embodiments a service provider may utilize capabilities and benefits of the system to easily manage access control to various location based services and users devices may utilize the capabilities and benefits of the system to determine dynamic information for generating access tokens for accessing the various location based services.

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including social networking web browser communications content sharing multimedia applications user interface UI map application web client etc. to communicate with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers one or more GPS satellites also collectively referred to as GPS satellites one or more identifiers tags also collectively referred to as an identifier identifiers one or more service gateways and or with other components of the system directly and or via communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include location services applications also collectively referred to as location service app apps . In various embodiments the location service apps may be included in the applications or may be a stand alone application.

In one embodiment the UEs may include data content collection modules also collectively referred to as DC module for determining and or collecting data and or content associated with the UEs one or more users of the UEs applications one or more content items e.g. multimedia content and the like. In addition the UEs can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing and or forwarding one or more information items to other components of the system . In various embodiments the DC module may include various sensors for proximity based communications for example Bluetooth NFC RFID or the like. In one embodiment an optical sensor e.g. a camera on the UE may be utilized to capture an image of a graphical item e.g. barcodes for processing by one or more applications and or modules at the UE wherein the graphical item may include encoded information associated with a POI a location based service a service provider a procedure for accessing a service and the like. In one embodiment the processing of an image of a graphical item may cause one or more actions by the applications and or one or more modules at the UE . For example based on information determined from a processing of an image e.g. a barcode the applications may establish a communication channel with an Internet site of a service provider.

In one embodiment the location service app may include various algorithms or software programs for processing various dynamic information items according to one or more procedures for generating one or more access tokens wherein the dynamic information items may also be determined by one or more applications and or modules at a UE . In various embodiments the dynamic information items may be determined by the DC module the applications various sensors at the UE or the like. For example a proximity based communication sensor e.g. Bluetooth may receive one or more signals e.g. RF optical light audio etc. from one or more nearby identifiers where the signals may be processed by the location services app the DC module the applications or the like wherein a location of a user device may be determined from the processed signals. In one instance an application and or an algorithm may determine a distance from an identifier by measuring and analyzing a reported transmission power at the identifier and a received signal strength indicator RSSI at the UE and applying a radio propagation model e.g. an indoor propagation model. In one example a plurality of determined distances from a plurality of identifiers in a given space e.g. in a room may be utilized to determine spatial location of a user device in the given space where the location information may be utilized as proof indicator that the user device is located in the room. In one embodiment the location services app may receive a procedure from the applications and or from one or more modules at the UE . In one embodiment the location service app may determine a procedure via one or more messages notifications e.g. short message service SMS email etc. which may be requested and or received from a POI services navigation services search engines or other service providers. In various embodiments a location service app may be specific to one or more locations regions service providers operating systems device types or the like. In one embodiment a location service app may be utilized by any UE at any location for any services. In one embodiment the location service app may be preloaded onto a UE by a service provider or a device manufacturer or it may be downloaded by a user or an application at a UE . In various embodiments the location services app may directly communicate an access token to a service gateway or may present the access token to the applications and or one or more modules at the UE so that the token may be communicated to the service gateway .

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more databases also collectively referred to as database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include one or more service providers offering one or more services for example online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging content sharing media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like.

In one embodiment the content providers may include and or have access to one or more database also collectively referred to as database which may store include and or have access to various content items. For example the content providers may store content items e.g. at the database provided by various users various service providers crowd sourced content and the like. Further the service providers and or the content providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users applications services content etc. may be shared accessed and or processed.

In various embodiments the identifiers tags may include one or more signal sources which may be placed within a spatial area for example on the walls floor ceiling and any structures in a room space as applicable. For example a signal source may include RF light optical audio or the like sources which may be transmitting presenting one or more signals including a default signal and or one or more information items encoded into the signal. For example a signal may include ID information of an identifier source device location information of the identifier transmission signal power at the identifier and other information items which may be associated with a POI location a service provider or the like. In one embodiment an identifier may be or may include an RFID memory tag which may transmit present ID and location information of the memory tag and other information items which may be associated with a POI location a service provider or the like wherein a memory tag may be active or passive.

In various embodiments a service gateway may include hardware software firmware and the like that may be utilized by users to access a LAN WLAN and initiate a network connection for example to the communication network . A service gateway may include an authentication module which may contain authentication access tokens keys for authenticating or authorizing the users requesting access to the network. A service gateway may provide a wireless Internet protocol IP connectivity authentication between a UE and a communication network. In one embodiment a service gateway may provide one or more procedures to a UE which the UE may utilize in generating one or more access tokens. For example the service gateway may provide a procedure via a communication channel that does not require any authentication between a UE and the gateway .

In one embodiment the system determines one or more dynamic information items associated with at least one location in which at least one service is available. In one embodiment a location services app on a UE may determine the various dynamic information items wherein the dynamic information items may include at least in part signal strength information from one or more identifiers associated with at least one geographical boundary of the at least one location the at least one service or a combination thereof. For example the dynamic information may be determined by the DC module which may be processed and or utilized by the applications and or the location services app . In one embodiment the dynamic information may indicate spatial location and or movement of a user device within a certain area for example the user may be at a certain point position in a room or may be moving around. In one embodiment the at least one service includes a wireless communication network service. For example a service provider at an establishment e.g. a merchant may provide a WLAN service to its visitors customers located within a certain physical area in relation to the establishment and or a POI defined by the service provider. In one embodiment the dynamic information may include various information items associated with a user and or a user device for example user history user preferences user device type applications available at the user device physiological information of the user or the like.

In one embodiment the system determines at least one procedure for generating one or more access tokens associated with the at least one service. In one embodiment the at least one procedure the one or more dynamic information items or a combination thereof is determined via a proximity based communication channel a network based communication channel a graphical representation or a combination thereof. For example the location services app may receive a procedure from the applications and or from one or more modules at the UE . In one embodiment the location service app may determine a procedure via one or more messages notifications e.g. short message service SMS email etc. which may be requested and or received from a POI services navigation services search engines or other service providers. In one embodiment a user may utilize the UE to capture an image of a graphical representation e.g. a barcode an application name etc. which may include encoded information on the procedure and or on how to obtain the procedure. In one embodiment a user may use a UE to interface with a memory tag for example via NFC for retrieving the procedure and or information associated with the procedure.

In one embodiment the system processes and or facilitates a processing of the one or more dynamic information items using at least in part the at least one procedure to cause at least in part a generation of the one or more access tokens. In one embodiment the location services application may utilize one or more algorithms software programs or the like to process the determined dynamic information for generating the one or more access tokens. For example the procedure may include process steps for the algorithm to use the dynamic information and calculate one or more alphanumeric graphical barcode or the like access tokens. In one instance the procedure may indicate that the dynamic data should be added subtracted divided multiplied truncated expanded or the like operations by the one or more algorithms in certain order.

In one embodiment the system processes and or facilitates a processing of the radio frequency signal information to determine at least one user location with respect to the at least one geographical boundary. In one embodiment an application and or an algorithm may determine a distance from a given identifier by measuring and analyzing a reported transmission power at the identifier and a received signal strength indicator RSSI at the UE and further apply a radio propagation model e.g. an indoor propagation model. In one example a plurality of determined distances from a plurality of identifiers in a given space e.g. in a room may be utilized to determine spatial location of a user device in the given space where the location information may be utilized as proof indicator that the user device is located in the room. In one embodiment the generation of the one or more access tokens is based at least in part on the at least one user location. In one instance a procedure may indicate that location information of a user device within a certain area is to be used when calculating an access token wherein the location information may allow for a generation of a valid access token. For example an access token may be valid if a user location is determined to be inside a certain coffee shop area.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of one or more notifications with respect to an availability of the at least one service the one or more access tokens or a combination thereof based at least in part on the at least one user location. In one embodiment the location services app and or the applications may cause a presentation of one or more notifications to the user via a UI on the UE which may indicate an availability of one or more services. In one embodiment the one or more notifications may indicate availability of one or more access tokens or a need to generate one or more access tokens or the like information which may be associated with the one or more services. In one embodiment the notifications may indicate information associated with a physical area and one or more services which may be available in the physical area.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part an updating to the one or more access tokens based at least in part on one or more changes in the one or more dynamic information items in the at least one procedure or a combination thereof wherein the updating is prior to an expiration of a current access token. In one embodiment the location services app may determine one or more changes in the one or more dynamic information items for example a spatial location of a user in a given area may have changed. For example a user may have moved from inside a coffee shop area to a patio area of the coffee shop where the location services app and or the service gateway may determine that the one or more access tokens may need to be updated. In one embodiment an access token may be updated before a current access token expires which may allow a currently utilized service to continue without any significant interruption to the service.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more attributes associated with a user a user device or a combination thereof that is requesting an access to the at least one service. In one embodiment the location services app may determine the one or more attributes and or information items associated with a user and or a user device and or it may request retrieve the attributes and or the information from the applications or one or more module at the UE . In various embodiments the attributes may include a user history user preferences user device type applications available at the user device physiological information of the user or the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part the generating of the one or more access tokens based at least in part on the one or more attributes. In one embodiment the location services app may utilize the attributes and or the information items in generating and or updating the one or more access tokens. For example a user may utilize a UE to access an available service and later the user may switch to a UE device where the one or more access tokens would be updated based on the UE and or user profile information associated with the UE

In one embodiment the system determines the at least one procedure the one or more dynamic information items or a combination thereof based at least in part on one or more transactions performed at the at least one location. In one scenario a user may utilize a UE to conduct one or more transactions with a point of service POS device system at a service provider POI where there may be a location based service. For example a user may be using a UE to interface with the POS device and pay for the purchase of some coffee at a coffee shop where the coffee shop provides a wireless service for its customers. Further during the transaction the POS device may provide to the UE one or more dynamic information items and or one or more procedures which the location services app the applications or the like may utilize in generating one or more access tokens for the available wireless service at the coffee shop. In various examples the transaction may be via NFC Bluetooth or the like.

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver loud speakers display monitors radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device wrist watch or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

In one embodiment the UE includes a location module sensor that can determine the UE location e.g. a user s location . The UE location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use the one or more satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. LAN WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UEs the service providers the content providers and the service gateways may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs the service providers and the service gateways may interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. It is also noted that the role of a client and a server is not fixed in some situations a device may act both as a client and a server which may be done simultaneously and or the device may alternate between these roles.

The location module can determine a user s location for example via location of a UE . The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . Location coordinates e.g. GPS coordinates can give finer detail as to the location of the UE when media is captured. In one embodiment GPS coordinates are stored as context information in the memory module and are available to the context processing module the DC module the service providers and or to other entities of the system e.g. via the communication interface . Moreover in certain embodiments the GPS coordinates can include an altitude to provide a height. In other embodiments the altitude can be determined using another type of altimeter. In certain embodiments the location module can be a means for determining a location of the UE an image or used to associate an object in view with a location.

The magnetometer module can be used in finding horizontal orientation of the UE . A magnetometer is an instrument that can measure the strength and or direction of a magnetic field. Using the same approach as a compass the magnetometer is capable of determining the direction of a UE using the magnetic field of the Earth. The front of a media capture device e.g. a camera can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Thus if the magnetic field points north compared to the reference point the angle the UE reference point is from the magnetic field is known. Simple calculations can be made to determine the direction of the UE . In one embodiment horizontal directional data obtained from a magnetometer can be stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or transmitted via the communication interface to one or more entities of the system .

The accelerometer module can be used to determine vertical orientation of the UE . An accelerometer is an instrument that can measure acceleration. Using a three axis accelerometer with axes X Y and Z provides the acceleration in three directions with known angles. Once again the front of a media capture device can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Because the acceleration due to gravity is known when a UE is stationary the accelerometer module can determine the angle the UE is pointed as compared to Earth s gravity. In certain embodiments the magnetometer module and accelerometer module can be means for ascertaining a perspective of a user. This perspective information may be stored in the memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In various embodiments the sensors module can process sensor data from various sensors e.g. Bluetooth NFC GPS accelerometer gyroscope thermometer etc. to determine environmental e.g. atmospheric conditions surrounding the UE user mood e.g. hungry angry tired etc. location information and various other information from a range sensors that may be available on one or more devices. For example the sensors module may detect conditions including humidity temperature geo location biometric data of the user etc. Once again this information can be stored in the memory module and sent to the context processing module and or to other entities of the system . In certain embodiments information collected from the DC collection module can be retrieved by the runtime module and stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In one embodiment the multimedia module may be utilized to capture various media items for example images video audio and the like wherein the captured media may be submitted to one or more modules and applications of the UE a service provider and or a content provider to further processing storage sharing and the like. In various embodiments the captured media may be shared with a content sharing module application etc. for sharing with one or more other devices. In various embodiments the multimedia module may interface with various sensors for example a camera a microphone etc. to capture the media items at a UE .

In one embodiment the communication interface can be used to communicate with one or more entities of the system . In various embodiments the communication interface may facilitate communications via one or more wireless communication channels and protocols for example WLAN RFID NFC Bluetooth Smart Bluetooth Ant Z Wave ZigBee or the like wherein the communication channels may be established via one or more sensors transceivers transmitters receivers wireless charging interface or the like. Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS multimedia messaging service MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the UE can send context information associated with the UE to the service providers content providers and or to other entities of the system .

The user interface can include various methods of for a user to interface with applications modules sensors and the like at a UE . For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface a microphone etc. Input can be via one or more methods such as voice input textual input typed input typed touch screen input other touch enabled input etc.

The context processing module may be utilized in determining context information from the location services application DC module and or applications executing on the runtime module . This information may be caused to be transmitted via the communication interface to the service providers and or to other entities of the system . The context processing module may additionally be utilized as a means for determining information related to the user an instance of data a value a content item an object a subject and the like. In certain embodiments the context processing module can infer higher level context information from the context data such as favorite locations significant places common activities interests in products and services POIs at various geo locations etc.

In various embodiments the runtime module may cause one or more modules components of a UE to associate one or more available data items with one or more content items available from the one or more modules components of the UE . For example date time location and user information associated with a device at a particular time may be associated e.g. as metadata with an image that is captured by the UE at that particular time.

Referring to the process begins at step where the location service app may determine one or more dynamic information items associated with at least one location in which at least one service is available. In one embodiment a location services app on a UE may determine the various dynamic information items wherein the dynamic information items may include at least in part signal strength information from one or more identifiers associated with at least one geographical boundary of the at least one location the at least one service or a combination thereof. For example the dynamic information may be determined by the DC module which may be processed and or utilized by the applications and or the location services app . In one embodiment the dynamic information may indicate spatial location and or movement of a user device within a certain area for example the user may be at a certain point position in a room or may be moving around. In one embodiment the at least one service includes a wireless communication network service. For example a service provider at an establishment e.g. a merchant may provide a WLAN service to its visitors customers located within a certain physical area in relation to the establishment and or a POI defined by the service provider. In one embodiment the dynamic information may include various information items associated with a user and or a user device for example user history user preferences user device type applications available at the user device physiological information of the user or the like.

In step the location service app may determine at least one procedure for generating one or more access tokens associated with the at least one service. In one embodiment the at least one procedure the one or more dynamic information items or a combination thereof is determined via a proximity based communication channel a network based communication channel a graphical representation or a combination thereof. For example the location services app may receive a procedure from the applications and or from one or more modules at the UE . In one embodiment the location service app may determine a procedure via one or more messages notifications e.g. short message service SMS email etc. which may be requested and or received from a POI services navigation services search engines or other service providers. In one embodiment a user may utilize the UE to capture an image of a graphical representation e.g. a barcode an application name etc. which may include encoded information on the procedure and or on how to obtain the procedure. In one embodiment a user may use a UE to interface with a memory tag for example via NFC for retrieving the procedure and or information associated with the procedure.

In step the location service app may process and or facilitate a processing of the one or more dynamic information items using at least in part the at least one procedure to cause at least in part a generation of the one or more access tokens. In one embodiment the location services application may utilize one or more algorithms software programs or the like to process the determined dynamic information for generating the one or more access tokens. For example the procedure may include process steps for the algorithm to use the dynamic information and calculate one or more alphanumeric graphical barcode or the like access tokens. In one instance the procedure may indicate that the dynamic data should be added subtracted divided multiplied truncated expanded or the like operations by the one or more algorithms in certain order.

Referring to the process begins at step where the location service app may process and or facilitate a processing of the radio frequency signal information to determine at least one user location with respect to the at least one geographical boundary. In one embodiment an application and or an algorithm may determine a distance from a given identifier by measuring and analyzing a reported transmission power at the identifier and a received signal strength indicator RSSI at the UE and further apply a radio propagation model e.g. an indoor propagation model. In one example a plurality of determined distances from a plurality of identifiers in a given space e.g. in a room may be utilized to determine spatial location of a user device in the given space where the location information may be utilized as proof indicator that the user device is located in the room. In one embodiment the generation of the one or more access tokens is based at least in part on the at least one user location. In one instance a procedure may indicate that location information of a user device within a certain area is to be used when calculating an access token wherein the location information may allow for a generation of a valid access token. For example an access token may be valid if a user location is determined to be inside a certain coffee shop area.

In step the location service app may cause at least in part a presentation of one or more notifications with respect to an availability of the at least one service the one or more access tokens or a combination thereof based at least in part on the at least one user location. In one embodiment the location services app and or the applications may cause a presentation of one or more notifications to the user via a UI on the UE which may indicate an availability of one or more services. In one embodiment the one or more notifications may indicate availability of one or more access tokens or a need to generate one or more access tokens or the like information which may be associated with the one or more services. In one embodiment the notifications may indicate information associated with a physical area and one or more services which may be available in the physical area.

In step the location service app may cause at least in part an updating to the one or more access tokens based at least in part on one or more changes in the one or more dynamic information items in the at least one procedure or a combination thereof wherein the updating is prior to an expiration of a current access token. In one embodiment the location services app may determine one or more changes in the one or more dynamic information items for example a spatial location of a user in a given area may have changed. For example a user may have moved from inside a coffee shop area to a patio area of the coffee shop where the location services app and or the service gateway may determine that the one or more access tokens may need to be updated. In one embodiment an access token may be updated before a current access token expires which may allow a currently utilized service to continue without any significant interruption to the service.

In step the location service app may determine one or more attributes associated with a user a user device or a combination thereof that is requesting an access to the at least one service. In one embodiment the location services app may determine the one or more attributes and or information items associated with a user and or a user device and or it may request retrieve the attributes and or the information from the applications or one or more module at the UE . In various embodiments the attributes may include a user history user preferences user device type applications available at the user device physiological information of the user or the like.

In step the location service app may cause at least in part the generating of the one or more access tokens based at least in part on the one or more attributes. In one embodiment the location services app may utilize the attributes and or the information items in generating and or updating the one or more access tokens. For example a user may utilize a UE to access an available service and later the user may switch to a UE device where the one or more access tokens would be updated based on the UE and or user profile information associated with the UE

In step the location service app may determine the at least one procedure the one or more dynamic information items or a combination thereof based at least in part on one or more transactions performed at the at least one location. In one scenario a user may utilize a UE to conduct one or more transactions with a point of service POS device system at a service provider POI where there may be a location based service. For example a user may be using a UE to interface with the POS device and pay for the purchase of some coffee at a coffee shop where the coffee shop provides a wireless service for its customers. Further during the transaction the POS device may provide to the UE one or more dynamic information items and or one or more procedures which the location services app the applications or the like may utilize in generating one or more access tokens for the available wireless service at the coffee shop. In various examples the transaction may be via NFC Bluetooth or the like.

The processes described herein for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to a more efficient and user friendly mechanism for sharing content among users. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service. In various embodiments the communication interface may facilitate one or more wireless communications between a user device for example a laptop computer a tablet a phablet etc. and one or more other devices e.g. a WLAN gateway an RF identifier etc. via one or more WLAN communication protocols proximity based communication protocols e.g. Bluetooth NFC RFID IrDA etc. or the like.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal for a mechanism to determine dynamic information for generating dynamic access tokens to a location based service. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

