---

title: Efficiently identifying images, videos, songs or documents most relevant to the user using binary search trees on attributes for guiding relevance feedback
abstract: A method, system and computer program product for efficiently identifying images, videos, audio files or documents relevant to a user using binary search trees in attribute space for guiding relevance feedback. A binary tree is constructed for each relative attribute of interest. A “pivot exemplar” (at a node of the binary tree) is set for each relative attribute's binary tree as corresponding to the database image, video, audio file or document with a median relative attribute value among that subtree's child examples. A pivot exemplar out of the available current pivot exemplars that has the highest expected information gain is selected to be provided to the user. Comparative attribute feedback is then received from the user regarding whether a degree of the attribute in the user's target image, video, audio file or document is more, less or equal with the attribute displayed in the selected pivot exemplar.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09176993&OS=09176993&RS=09176993
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09176993
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130813
---
Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 748 509 Efficiently Identifying Images Most Relevant to the User Using Binary Search Trees on Visual Attributes for Guiding Relevance Feedback filed Jan. 3 2013 and claims the benefit of its earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to the terms of the Office of Naval Research Grant No. N00014 11 1 0105P00003.

The present invention relates to information retrieval and more particularly to efficiently identifying images e.g. photographs illustrations online products videos audio files or documents that are most relevant to the user using binary search trees on attributes for guiding relevance feedback.

In information retrieval users have a mental picture of content such as images desired to be retrieved. For example a shopper wants to retrieve those catalog pages that match his her envisioned style of clothing. In another example a witness wants to help law enforcement locate a suspect in a database based on his her memory of the face of the suspect. In a further example a web page designer wants to find a stock photograph suitable for his her customer s brand image. Oftentimes such images are attempted to be retrieved based on simple keyword searching. However such content or images e.g. illustrations photographs products are not easily identified and retrieved based on simple keyword searching In a similar manner in other domains such as video document or music retrieval it is difficult to accurately meet a user s search needs if relying on keyword search alone.

As a result interactive search techniques have been developed to attempt to identify and retrieve the content envisioned by the user by allowing the user to iteratively refine the results retrieved by the system. The basic idea in such techniques is to show the user candidate results obtain feedback and adapt the system s relevance ranking function accordingly. However existing retrieval methods provide only a narrow channel of feedback to the system. Typically a user refines the retrieved images or videos audio files or documents by providing binary relevance feedback i.e. informing the system which examples are relevant or irrelevant on exemplars provided to the user or else attempts to tune the system parameters such as weights on a small set of low level features e.g. texture color and edges in the case of image searches . The latter is clearly a burden for a user who likely cannot understand the inner workings of the algorithm. The former feedback is more natural to supply yet it leaves the system to infer what about those images the user found relevant or irrelevant and therefore can be slow to converge on the user s envisioned content in practice.

A further deficiency in interactive search techniques involves the examples images videos audio files or documents that are selected to be provided to the user for feedback. Typically the system simply displays a screen full of top ranked examples leaving a user free to provide feedback on any of them. This strategy has the appeal of simultaneously showing the current results and accepting feedback. However the examples believed to be the most relevant need not be the most informative for reducing the system s uncertainty in selecting the examples that are the closest to the user s envisioned image. As a result the approach may fail to explore relevant portions of the feature space and can waste interaction cycles eliciting redundant feedback. Hence such techniques are inefficient in terms of the system s selection time as well as the user s feedback effort as a result of not providing examples to the user for which feedback would be most informative for reducing the system s uncertainty i.e. improve the system s notion of relevance .

In one embodiment of the present invention a method for efficiently identifying images videos audio files or documents relevant to a user using attribute binary trees for guiding relevance feedback comprises constructing a binary search tree for each relative attribute of interest in a pool of database images videos audio files or documents. The method further comprises recursively setting a current pivot exemplar for each binary tree as corresponding to a database image video audio file or document with a median relative attribute value among all remaining database items in a subtree. Furthermore the method comprises predicting the information gain that would result from asking a user how a user s target image video audio file or document compares to each pivot exemplar of a plurality of pivot exemplars where the comparison is made in terms of an attribute associated with that pivot s binary tree. Additionally the method comprises providing a pivot exemplar deemed most informative from among the plurality of pivot exemplars to a user to provide a comparison between the attribute in the user s target image video audio file or document and in the current pivot exemplar. In addition the method comprises receiving by a processor comparative attribute feedback from the user regarding whether a degree of the attribute in the user s target image video audio file or document is more less or equal with the attribute displayed in the provided pivot exemplar.

Other forms of the embodiment of the method described above are in a system and in a computer program product.

The foregoing has outlined rather generally the features and technical advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the present invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be described hereinafter which may form the subject of the claims of the present invention.

The present invention comprises a method system and computer program product for efficiently identifying examples most relevant to a user using binary trees computed over relative attributes for guiding relevance feedback. The examples as used herein could be images videos documents or audio files or similar multi media data objects. In one embodiment of the present invention a binary tree is constructed for each relative attribute of interest in a pool of database examples. A set of pivot exemplars is recursively determined for each attribute s binary tree as corresponding to the database examples with a median relative attribute value among their associated examples where each pivot exemplar is an internal node of the binary tree. Furthermore a selection function predicts the information gain that would result from asking a user how a user s target example compares to the pivot exemplar for the relative attribute of interest for its corresponding binary tree. A specific pivot exemplar from the pivot exemplars is then provided to the user to provide a comparison between an attribute in the user s target i.e. the image video document or audio file he she would like to find and that specific pivot exemplar where the specified pivot exemplar is the pivot exemplar among all binary trees with the highest expected information gain. Comparative attribute feedback is then received from the user regarding whether the degree of the attribute in the user s target is more less or equal in strength with the attribute displayed in the specified pivot exemplar. In this manner the interactive search becomes more efficient thereby reducing the system s selection time as well as the user s feedback effort. In particular the selection time is reduced since information gain computation is limited to only the pivot examples while the user s feedback effort is reduced because the user need only respond to the most useful comparative questions that are expected to lead to his her target.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known circuits have been shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail. For the most part details considering timing considerations and the like have been omitted inasmuch as such details are not necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention and are within the skills of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

While the following discusses the present invention in connection with image searching the principles of the present invention may be applied to other information retrieval tasks such as video searching document searching e.g. navigating through news articles using semantic attribute feedback about text topics and music searching e.g. finding an audio file using semantic attribute feedback about audio properties like mood tempo etc. . A person of ordinary skill in the art would be capable of applying the principles of the present invention to such implementations. Further embodiments applying the principles of the present invention to such implementations would fall within the scope of the present invention.

An attribute as used herein refers to a property that is often shared among different objects and can be described or named by a human viewer. For example visual attributes for shoes may include shininess or heel height. In another example visual attributes for a scene may include rainy or dark. Similarly an audio attribute may include tempo or mood. Similarly a document attribute for a news article may include cheerful tone or negative sentiment or conservativeness. 

Referring now to the Figures in detail illustrates a network system for practicing the principles of the present invention in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Network system includes a client device connected to a server via a network . Client device may be any type of computing device e.g. portable computing unit Personal Digital Assistant PDA smartphone laptop computer mobile phone navigation device game console desktop computer system workstation Internet appliance and the like configured with the capability of connecting to network and consequently communicating with server . Such communication includes but is not limited to providing relevance feedback e.g. looking for more less or equally of the attribute shown in an image to an application of server configured to identify images e.g. photographs illustrations online products documents videos audio files that are most relevant to the user of client device using binary search trees on attributes for guiding relevance feedback. A description of the hardware configuration of server is provided below in connection with .

Network may be for example a local area network a wide area network a wireless wide area network a circuit switched telephone network a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network Wireless Application Protocol WAP network a WiFi network an IEEE 802.11 standards network various combinations thereof etc. Other networks whose descriptions are omitted here for brevity may also be used in conjunction with system of without departing from the scope of the present invention.

While illustrates a single client device server and network network system may include any number of client devices servers and networks . The embodiments of network system are not to be limited in scope to the depiction of .

Referring now to illustrates a hardware configuration of server which is representative of a hardware environment for practicing the present invention. Server has a processor coupled to various other components by system bus . An operating system runs on processor and provides control and coordinates the functions of the various components of . An application in accordance with the principles of the present invention runs in conjunction with operating system and provides calls to operating system where the calls implement the various functions or services to be performed by application . Application may include for example an application for identifying images e.g. photographs illustrations online products that are most relevant to the user of client device using binary search trees on visual attributes for guiding relevance feedback as discussed further below in association with and .

Referring again to read only memory ROM is coupled to system bus and includes a basic input output system BIOS that controls certain basic functions of server . Random access memory RAM and disk adapter are also coupled to system bus . It should be noted that software components including operating system and application may be loaded into RAM which may be server s main memory for execution. Disk adapter may be an integrated drive electronics IDE adapter that communicates with a disk unit e.g. disk drive. It is noted that the application for identifying images e.g. photographs illustrations online products that are most relevant to the user of client device using binary search trees on visual attributes for guiding relevance feedback as discussed further below in association with and may reside in disk unit or in application .

Server may further include a communications adapter coupled to bus . Communications adapter interconnects bus with an outside network e.g. network of thereby enabling server to communicate with other client devices .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the present invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the function acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the function acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As stated in the Background section interactive search techniques have been developed to attempt to identify and retrieve the content envisioned by the user by allowing the user to iteratively refine the results retrieved by the system. The basic idea in such techniques is to show the user candidate results obtain feedback and adapt the system s relevance ranking function accordingly. However existing image search methods provide only a narrow channel of feedback to the system. Typically a user refines the retrieved images via binary feedback relevant or irrelevant on the examples e.g. images videos documents music provided to the user or else attempts to tune the system parameters such as weights on a small set of low level features e.g. texture color and edges in the case of image searches . The latter is clearly a burden for a user who likely cannot understand the inner workings of the algorithm. The former feedback is more natural to supply yet it leaves the system to infer what about those images the user found relevant or irrelevant and therefore can be slow to converge on the user s envisioned content in practice.

A further deficiency in such search techniques involves the examples e.g. images that are selected to be provided to the user for feedback. Often the system simply displays a screen full of top ranked examples leaving a user free to provide feedback on any of them. This strategy has the appeal of simultaneously showing the current results and accepting feedback. However the examples believed to be most relevant need not be most informative for reducing the system s uncertainty. As a result the approach may fail to explore relevant portions of the feature space and can waste interaction cycles eliciting redundant feedback. Hence such techniques are inefficient in terms of the system s selection time as well as the user s feedback effort as a result of not providing examples to the user to provide feedback that is the most informative for reducing the system s uncertainty i.e. those that would improve the system s notion of relevance .

The principles of the present invention provides a means for efficiently identifying images e.g. photographs illustrations online products or videos documents or audio files that are most relevant to the user using binary search trees on attributes for guiding relevance feedback as discussed further below in association with and . are a flowchart of a method for efficiently identifying examples that are most relevant to the user using binary search trees on attributes for guiding relevance feedback. illustrates requesting feedback from the user using binary search trees on attributes to focus the active selection for the case of image retrieval where examples are images.

As stated above are a flowchart of a method for efficiently identifying images most relevant to a user such as a user of client device using binary search trees on attributes for guiding relevance feedback in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Prior to discussing method a brief discussion of the image search approach of the present invention interacting with the user of client device is deemed appropriate.

The information retrieval approach of the present invention interacts with the user through multiple choice questions of the form Is the item you are looking for more less or equally A than item I where A is a semantic attribute and I is an exemplar from the database being searched. Again the items might be images documents audio files videos or other similar multi media objects. The goal of the present invention is to generate a series of such questions that will most efficiently narrow down the relevant items in the database so that the user of client device finds his her target referring to the imagined content of the user of client device in few iterations. To this end at each iteration a comparison for the user to provide is actively selected that is the A I pair which yields the expected maximal information gain. Rather than exhaustively search all database images as potential exemplars however only a small number of pivot exemplars is considered where the pivot exemplars refer to selected internal nodes of the binary search trees constructed for each attribute. The output is the list of database images sorted by their predicted relevance.

The term target as used herein refers to the imagined content of the user of client device . For example in image search it could be a literal image the user has seen before or simply a mental model of the visual content of interest. In the following let I I. . . I denote the N images in the database each of which has a corresponding image descriptor x . . . x e.g. GIST bag of words etc. . Furthermore it is further supposed that there is an attribute vocabulary consisting of M properties For example for a shoe shopping database the visual properties might be pointiness shininess heel height etc. For a music database the audio properties might be tempo mood etc. A I is used to denote the true strength of an attribute m in example I i.e. as would be perceived by a human viewer.

Referring now to in conjunction with in step server constructs a binary search tree for reach relative attribute of interest e.g. pointiness shininess in a pool of database images documents audio files or videos.

In order to utilize attribute based comparisons the strength of each attribute in each database example needs to be estimated. Those estimates can be either automatically machine estimated or manually annotated by humans. In one embodiment to form machine estimates of the attribute strengths one ranking function per attribute is learned. In one embodiment such a ranking function is learned as follows. For each attribute m a set of ordered pairs O I I is obtained for which each image Ihas greater strength of attribute m than image Idoes as well as a set of unordered pairs E I I for which both images in a pair exhibit the attribute equally. All such pairs come from comparative human judgments.

For each attribute m its associated training pairs are used to learn a ranking function EQ 1 which maps the descriptor xfor example Ito its real valued attribute strength. The projection parameters ware optimized using a large margin ranking objective. It aims to satisfy the ordered pair constraints above such that

It is noted that these predicted attribute values a I are what can be observed for example I. They are a function of but can be distinct from the true latent attribute strengths A I meaning the attribute strengths as perceived by a human user.

For each attribute m 1 . . . M a binary search tree is constructed. The tree recursively partitions all the database examples into two balanced sets where the key at a given node is the median relative attribute value occurring within the set of examples passed to that node. To build the m th attribute tree we start at the root with all database examples sort them by their attribute values a I . . . a I and identify the median value.

In step server sets each pivot exemplar for each attribute for each binary tree as corresponding to the database example with the median relative attribute value where a pivot exemplar is an internal node the binary tree. For example let Idenote the pivot image the one that has the median attribute strength for a subtree for attribute m. Those images exhibiting the attribute less than I i.e. all Isuch that a I a I are passed to the left child while those exhibiting the attribute more i.e. a I a I are passed to the right child. Then the splitting repeats recursively each time storing the next pivot image and its relative attribute value at the appropriate node.

It is noted that in one embodiment both the relative attribute ranker training and the search tree construction are offline procedures they are performed once before handling any user queries.

It is further noted that a search procedure could be performed that walks a user through one such attribute tree at each successively deeper level requesting a comparison to the pivot and then eliminating the appropriate portion of the database depending on whether the user says more or less. In another embodiment a probabilistic representation of whether images satisfy the comparison constraints is proposed and the pivots are used to limit the pool of candidate images that are evaluated for their expected information gain.

In step starting at the root of the binary search trees server predicts the information gain that would result from asking the user how the user s target compares to each of the current pivot exemplars where there is one current pivot exemplar per binary tree . To compute the expected gain methods were devised discussed further below to estimate the likelihood of the user s response given the feedback history. Then among the pivot exemplars the most informative comparison is requested generating a question to the user such as Is your target more or less or equally attribute name than this image where attribute name refers to the algorithm selected attribute for the pivot with the most information gain expected. The analogous questions are generated for the case of audio files videos or documents.

In step server provides a pivot exemplar to the user of client device to provide a comparison between the attribute in the user s envisioned target and that pivot exemplar. The pivot exemplar provided to the user is the pivot exemplar among all the binary trees deemed to provide the most informative comparison as discussed above. At the first iteration those pivots would all be the root nodes at subsequent iterations they would also consist of internal nodes in the binary trees. Thus at each iteration as discussed further below the user provides a comparison between the attribute in the user s envision target and the appropriate pivot exemplar.

In one embodiment a set of M current pivot examples one per attribute tree at each iteration is maintained denoted P I . . . I. The pivots are initially the root pivot examples from each tree. During active selection the goal is to identify the pivot in this set that once compared by the user to his target will most reduce the entropy of the relevance predictions on all database examples in I. It is noted that selecting a pivot corresponds to selecting both an example as well as an attribute along which we want it to be compared. That is Irefers to the pivot for attribute m. Pivots will have a different impact due to the distribution of values in the corresponding attribute s spectrum.

Let y1 0 denote the binary label for database example I which reflects whether it is relevant to the user matches his her target or not. Let I r denote the set of comparative constraints accumulated in the T rounds of feedback so far. The k th item in F consists of a pivot example Ifor attribute m and a user response r more less equally . The final output will be a sorting of the database examples in I according to their probability of relevance given the example s content and all user feedback P y 1 l 

Given the feedback history F the information gain should be predicted across all N database images for each pivot in P. In one embodiment the pivot selected is the one that most reduces the total relevance entropy over all images or the pivot that minimizes the expected entropy when used to augment the current set of feedback constraints.

where l 0 1. Let R be a random variable denoting the user s response R more less equally . The next pivot for comparison is selected as 

Optimizing EQ 3 requires estimating the likelihood of each of the three possible user responses to a question that has not been issued yet. Three possible strategies may be used to estimate it. In each case cues are used from the available feedback history to form a proxy for the user essentially borrowing the probability that a new constraint is satisfied from previously seen feedback. For the first strategy which is referred to herein as the All Relevant all relevant database examples are used as the proxy. The assumption is that the examples that are relevant to the user thus far are on the whole more likely to satisfy the user s next feedback than those that are irrelevant. Ideally the P S 1 I values are averaged among only the relevant images I where c indexes the candidate new feedback for a yet unknown user response R. Since relevance can only be predicted the weighted probability of each possible response R is computed 

The second strategy which is referred to herein as the Most Relevant is similar but uses only our current best guess for the target as the proxy 1 EQ 5 where Iis the database example that maximizes P y 1 I for i 1 . . . N.

The third strategy referred to herein as the Similar Question examines all previously answered feedback requests and copies the answer from the question that is most similar to the new one. Question similarity is defined in terms of the Euclidean distance between the pivot examples descriptors plus the similarity of the two attributes involved in either question. For images the descriptors would capture some visual properties such as edges color or texture. The latter is quantified by the Kendall s correlation between the ranks they assign to a set of validation examples. For example this reflects that feminine and heel height are more aligned than feminine and grayness. Let R denote the response to the most similar question k found in the history F for the new pivot Iunder consideration. Then the following defines the likelihood of a response under the Similar Question model 

At each iteration the user is presented with the pivot exemplar selected with Equation EQ 3 and the system requests the specified attribute comparison. Then 1 the response is used to update F with that additional example attribute response constraint and 2 either the pivot in P for that attribute is replaced with its appropriate child pivot i.e. the left or right child in the binary search tree if the response is less or more respectively or the exploration of this tree if the response is equally is terminated. It is noted that this means that the set of pivots consists of pointers into the binary trees at varying levels as illustrated in .

Referring to illustrates requesting feedback from the user using binary search trees on visual attributes to focus the active selection in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in M 2 attribute trees where the user of client device is asked to compare his her target to pivot in terms of pointiness and is then asked to compare his her target to pivot in terms of shininess followed by being asked to compare his her target to pivot in terms of pointiness and so on such as being asked to compare his her target to pivot in terms of pointiness .

By using binary search trees on attributes to guide relevance feedback from the user the system s selection time as well as the user s feedback effort are improved. The user s effort is saved because the active selection criterion considers which attribute will most benefit from more refined feedback at any point in time. In another embodiment the system alternates between the attribute trees in sequence without computing information gain. This is more efficient though depending on the data distribution it may not reduce uncertainty as efficiently.

Referring to in conjunction with in step server receives comparative attribute feedback more less equally from the user of client device regarding whether a degree of the attribute in the user s target is more less or equal with the attribute displayed in the presented pivot exemplar e.g. more shiny than depicted in the pivot exemplar as discussed above in connection with .

In step a determination is made by server as to whether the user indicated that the degree of the attribute e.g. pointedness in the user s target e.g. shoe is equal with the attribute displayed in the presented pivot exemplar. If the user indicated that the degree of the attribute e.g. pointedness in the user s target image e.g. shoe is equal with the attribute displayed in the presented pivot exemplar then in step server removes the presented pivot exemplar from consideration.

If however the user indicated that the degree of the attribute e.g. pointedness in the user s target e.g. shoe is not equal i.e. more or less with the attribute displayed in the presented pivot exemplar then in step server moves the current pivot exemplar down one level within the selected attribute s binary search tree as discussed above in connection with .

Upon removing the attribute pivot from consideration or upon moving the current pivot exemplar down one level within the selected attribute s binary search tree in step server updates the relevance predictions in the examples stored in the database. The following is a discussion for predicting the relevance of a database example given the user s comparative feedback.

Let S 0 1 be a binary random variable representing whether image Isatisfies the k th feedback constraint. For example if the user s k th comparison yields response r more then S 1 if the database image Ihas attribute m more than the corresponding pivot image I. The probability of relevance is thus the probability that all T feedback comparisons in F are satisfied 

The probability that an individual constraint is satisfied given that the user s response was r for pivot Iis 

To estimate these probabilities the attribute predictions a are mapped to probabilistic outputs by adapting Platt s method found in J. C. Platt Probabilistic Output for Support Vector Machines and Comparisons to Regularized Likelihood Methods Mar. 26 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety to the paired classification problem implicit in the large margin ranking objective. Specifically this yields 

P A I A I . When estimating the likelihood of a user response these values are normalized so the three probabilities more less equally sum to 1.

The probabilistic model of relevance of the present invention accounts for the fact that predicted attribute values can deviate from true perceived attribute strengths to some extent. In contrast prior work using relative attribute feedback makes hard cuts in the attribute feature space simply counting how many predicted attribute values satisfy the user s constraints to determine relevance. As discussed above the binary trees serve to guide the active exemplar selection and reduce its computational overhead rather than completely eliminate examples from consideration.

Referring now to in conjunction with in step server re ranks the pool of database examples in response to the updating of the relevance ranking function.

In step server displays a top ranked set of the re ranked pool of database examples to the user of client device .

In step a determination is made by server as to whether an example s of the displayed set of top ranked examples are acceptable to the user. For example in the case of image search the user may indicate that one or more of the images provided to the user is what the user has envisioned.

If an example s of the displayed set of top ranked examples are acceptable to the user then in step server has identified an example s most relevant to the user.

If however the example s of the displayed set is not acceptable to the user then server predicts the information gain that would result from asking the user how the user s target image compares to each of the current pivot exemplars each pivot exemplar for each binary tree in step .

In some implementations method may include other and or additional steps that for clarity are not depicted. Further in some implementations method may be executed in a different order presented and that the order presented in the discussion of is illustrative. Additionally in some implementations certain steps in method may be executed in a substantially simultaneous manner or may be omitted.

Hence as shown above method is more efficient over prior active relevance feedback methods namely those that require a na ve scan through all database images for each iteration since the attribute search trees allow the method to limit the scan to just one example per attribute. As a result a smaller number of candidates is analyzed per iteration. Furthermore the system locates the user s target via a smaller number of well chosen interactions.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. This includes but is not limited to the particulars of how the relevance function is evaluated how the information gain is computed and how the attribute functions are learned or manually defined. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

