---

title: Client application and servers for preview and purchase of newly created music by fans
abstract: An artist or a music company creates multimedia music contents using interactive media creating tools on their computer and upload to a fans club server. The fans club server maintains all fans registration information and client uploaded multimedia music/songs contents. An interactive media description module on the fans club server generates the interactive media using the multimedia contents provided by the client or the artist as its input. The generated interactive media will be distributed among the fans of the respective artist for playing on their mobile phones and review their contents online for a feedback before the songs being released in the market.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09590754&OS=09590754&RS=09590754
owner: 
number: 09590754
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130711
---
The present patent application is a continuation of claims priority to and makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 11 982 560 entitled MOBILE DEVICE AND DISTRIBUTION SERVER FOR REVIEW OF NEWLY CREATED MUSIC BY FANS filed on Nov. 1 2007. The complete subject matter of the above referenced U.S. patent application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present patent application makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 11 821 771 entitled SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INTERACTIVE USER INTEREST SURVEY TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE filed on Jun. 25 2007. The complete subject matter of the above referenced U.S. patent application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. provisional patent Ser. No. 60 860 700 entitled AUDIO GUIDED SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING GUIDANCE TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE ON MULTI STEP ACTIVITIES filed on Nov. 22 2006. The complete subject matter of the above referenced U.S. patent application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 524 568 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 24 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced U.S. Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 702 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 10 2004. The complete subject matter of the above referenced U.S. patent application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 530 175 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS AND A TRADING SYSTEM FOR CONTRACTS ON USER COMMITMENTS TO ANSWER QUESTIONNAIRES filed on Dec. 17 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced U.S. Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety

The present invention relates generally to the distribution of interactive media with musical content to a group of recipients on their mobile phones and more particularly to a network where an artist distributes his creation to his fans for initial feedback prior to an official release of his creation into a market.

Quite often when an artist creates a new art work and releases it into a market the artist has very limited information on how successful it is likely to be in the market. Often a CD of music that is released into a market flops and goes into oblivion at great financial loss to the producers and to the artist. Currently there is no system that can help with reducing the risk involved in releasing a new artistic product such as a new music created a new set of photographs or a new painting into the market. There are really no simple means of gathering opinion on a newly created music before a CD media is released from a cross section of the market. If the buyers of the songs are not satisfied with the contents in a newly purchased CD media they lose money the spent in buying it. The dissatisfied buyers are likely to be once bitten twice shy . This often leads to a loss of popularity for the artists who have contributed to the new CD and to the producers or the music company that markets them.

The manpower that is typically needed in the form of sales representatives or in the form of some focus groups to gather market opinion or conduct trials is quite prohibitive in cost and is not very effective in predicting how successful the released content is actually going to be in the market. Inaccurate statistic gathered by salesmen or vendors during such a process will mislead the music company causing heavy losses. Misinterpreted market forecasts and some unforeseen market trends often lead to wrong marketing plans and hence loss to the producers or the company. Finally the whole process results in an unexpected outcome in the market and often the hard earned reputation of the company and the artist is lost.

Current marketing strategy through the existing media outlets such as TV internet and other forms involve spending huge money for ads that promote a new product CD song that is released into the market. All of these techniques are uncertain in their outcomes as far the release of new CDs songs is concerned and it difficult to really know the reception in the market in advance by the technique of advertisements on such media outlets. In such occasions it s very tough to make decision on in the volume of inventories that need to be created and predictions of large demands of music audio CDs released into the market often prove wrong. Once a new CD DVD is released in large volumes if buyers or the customers offer a poor response or express a negative opinion it could lead to recall of the CDs DVD from the market an extremely dangerous situation for the manufacturers and retailer as a lot of money may already have been spent.

Current methods techniques of online marketing for entrainment related media such as music or audio CDs are difficult especially in reaching a common customer who does not have a PC or access to the Internet. Because online selling of such entrainment media is made easy through PCs computers at present marketing companies are focusing on Internet sales. However a significant portion of the world population lack access to computers and the Internet but are still an important segment of buyers of new CDs DVDs etc. The percentage of music listeners is much larger than the percentage of people who have access to PCs and the Internet and generally they may not have access to computer. So there is a need to efficiently reach out to the larger population and provide them with information regarding new CD releases that hit the market.

The current methods of marketing and advertisements do not facilitate any means of information sharing by like minded individuals with and similar tastes and habits. There are limited means for such people to group together to share their views on a product such as music video etc. Some web portals provide a web community for sharing such information. Again a significant portion of the people of the world cannot participate in such web communities for several reasons.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art through comparison of such systems with the present invention.

The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Drawings the Detailed Description of the Invention and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Over a billion people in the world own and operate mobile devices such as cellular phones and this number is growing very fast. In the near future every individual in the world is likely to own at least one mobile device. A mobile device and a mobile network are a very important communication means through which vital information reaches a large section of people keeping them involved in interactions with other like minded individuals and providing a means of sharing content. Aspects of sharing e business data and interactive media is supported in the present invention with particular support for sharing of newly created music and other forms of creative art by an artist with his fans worldwide. Specifically part of the information that flows across wireless mobile network is content designed for mobile devices with music and videos being among the most sought after content. The interactive media that can be shared by an artist with his fans the sharing of which is described in the present invention comprises multimedia music contents presented on the mobile phone to users fans . In fact the fans can receive and review newly created material before they are officially released into the market by the artist in a preview or tails mode. Thus an artist can send his fans a newly created art such as music for a trial run and have the fans review it and provide feedback on those contents prior to releasing the newly created content such as songs into the market.

The fan review system supported by the present invention is a new concept involving distribution of qualifying multimedia products often with music contents to a select group of people typically fans onto their mobile devices in accordance with present invention. The recipients who are part of the select group may belong to a fan club of an artist. A fan club is basically a registered group of members who follow the work of an artist and are keen to find out more about the artist s work and about new art being created or released by the artist. A member of a fan club of an artist or a singer can register online into a web community or fan club portal and get an account on a server called a fans club server . After becoming a registered fan a member gets access to newly created material of the artist and can also subscribe to various additional services. A person can be a fan of more than one artist or singer in accordance with the present invention.

In accordance with the present invention a fan review system comprises a means to distribute newly created music artwork etc. to registered fans of an artist with distribution aimed at mobile devices of the fans. The fan review system membership comprises a large number of fans who register their mobile devices such as mobile phones to receive newly created music etc. The fans club server is used for registration by a fan. A client computer is used by an artist to upload newly created music etc. to the media distribution server . Using the client computer such as a PC an artist or a music company uploads songs packaged as a multimedia content. In one embodiment according to the present invention the media distribution server is integrated into the fans club server .

Songs from an artist such as a singer are uploaded in the form of multimedia with music content to the media distribution server or in some embodiments the fans club server which generates an interactive media from the multimedia that can be delivered to fans mobile phones . Fans who receive the interactive media will open these songs and listen to them and be able to provide feedback and express their opinion to a questionnaire provided. A fans feedback is provided in the form of a multiple choice selections provided as a means to gather a fans response to each of the songs packaged in the interactive media. The multiple choice selections for each of the songs presented on the mobile phones are for example Great Ok Don t Like Seen similar Purchase from which a fan selects one employing an associated radio button.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention comprises user selection of a new work in progress from one or more artists from a music library from a welcome screen on the mobile device. Once the artist is selected submenus are presented for an artist with multiple projects or multiple work in progress CDs. With a plurality of projects work in progress or with multiple CDs a choice is presented to the user in the form of a list. Selecting a CD from this list for an artist opens a list of songs on a new screen. From the new screen an user fan can select the songs to listen to and provide feedback and indicate approval disapproval. Multiple selections of the songs from different CDs can also be done and purchase a option is provided to the user fan so that he can purchase a yet to be released song. Thus a work in progress song music can be selected for purchase by a user fan and when triggered an invoice screen comprising a list of all the songs selected for purchase is presented with the purchase price showing for user approval.

From the invoice screen the user can further do price based selections and submit a final selection for purchase which brings up a payment screen. From the payment screen an user can perform online payment to download the songs. Offline payment involves payment by bank cheque delivered to a prompted address. The user can also enter his her contact address for receipt of a final released product for his selection purchase.

Typically a fan club client component in the mobile device provides for such user interaction. Most of the screens provided and menu items presented to a user are data driven for the most part. In addition a fan profile stored in a fan club server can be used to guide user initiated transactions such as purchases.

In accordance with the present invention a fans club server provides support for management of the content flow to the mobile devices of fans who are members of a fan club. It provides online registration by a fan from a mobile phone facilitates uploading multiple instances of a fan review from the mobile phone of a fan and the distribution of music songs multimedia created by a music company or an artist to the registered fans.

A content creation tool in the client computer used by an artist or a music company helps create interactive media that is distributed to the fans to solicit a fan review based on the distributed interactive media. It facilitates the upload of the interactive media comprising one or more created content such as songs music etc. to the media distribution server . The media distribution server distributes the uploaded interactive media comprising the artists content to fans who have registered at the fan club server to receive such content.

The interactive media with songs music images videos etc. can be forwarded to others by a recipient fan. Also new recipients can register as a member to a fan club from their mobile phones or by using appropriate web pages provided by the fans club server or a webserver associated with and communicatively coupled to the fan club server. The fans review system also facilitates the mobile phone user s mobile purchases of songs music videos that are provided or portions of which are provided in the interactive media distributed to them. Thus fans can preview and optionally even purchase such new material created by their favorite artists before such new material is even released into the market. By purchasing those songs online using their mobile phones he she can play on his her mobile phone and also make those songs as their ringtone by downloading before the general public can buy it from the market.

The fans club server provides several features including fan registration and account setup by a fan that can be used to purchase songs and ringtones CDs etc. 3. In addition it enables an artist or a music company that creates interactive media with music contents to upload to them for distribution such uploads ending up in the media distribution server . It also collates responses received from fans and optionally exports them into a spreadsheet. The collated responses can be viewed on the website or exported and downloaded as a spreadsheet.

The media distribution server distributes interactive media using an interactive media distribution module. It sends a welcome message a purchase option an invoice data for review and payment details to the mobile phones of the fans facilitating the review of newly created content music art by an artist and its optional purchase by the fan user.

The mobile devices used by fans to receive and review interactive media comprise a client software that has several important features in accordance with the present invention. A fan user can review new songs videos etc. and provide feedback to an artist or a music company. In one embodiment of the present invention the interactive media is presented as a series of songs each with an accompanying multiple choice selections radio buttons for example that can be used by a fan to provide feedback on individual songs. Thus an audio assisted questionnaire format is employed with an audio component comprising a song music a textual component with some descriptions of the song music and a graphic image such as a picture of the artist. Such an interactive media in a questionnaire format with songs music embedded as audio components enables preview by fans and the means to gather feedback from the fans such as before the release of a CD or DVD into a market . The client also enables purchase of an item by a fan from artist or music company even before an official release of a corresponding CD or DVD. A user can provide feedback to artist or the music company and also be able to download one or more songs music as a ringtone.

In general the fans review system is capable of qualifying music based on likes and dislikes by a group of fans of a respective artist. It maintains a list of genres that a user prefers. The fans review system comprises the mobile phone and the fans club server communicatively coupled by a network . The fans club server is also communicatively coupled to a client computer and to a separate the media distribution server via the network . In another embodiment of the present invention the media distribution server is integrated into the fans club server and it performs the function of interactive media distribution on the mobile phones .

The fans club server comprises a sales management module a feedback gathering module A notification service module and a subscription module a fans registration module and a fans database . The sales management module tracks the sales performed by each fan in buying the songs or CDs released for evaluation from many artists or music companies. It also maintains the information on each registrant fan related to the purchase of songs and CDs during their trial or full volume release in the market.

The feedback gathering module of the fans club server gathers review information from the fan s mobile phone . Such feedback in one embodiment is collected by the media distribution server. In another embodiment it is directly received from the mobile device . Fans review an interactive media comprising an artists creations such as music songs and other content by selecting appropriate entries of a multiple choice questions provided typically one per each song or item in the interactive media. Selections are made using a joystick and or soft keys on the mobile device by a user and often clicking radio buttons on their mobile device corresponding to a multi choice item of a question in a questionnaire from the screen presented on the mobile device results in providing feedback for an associated song or item. For example the questionnaire comprising songs and feedback text may consist of a multiple choice set with selections such as Great Ok Don t Like Seen similar Purchase items for selection using the radio buttons. A user can select the choices presented in order to provide feedback on each of the songs contained in the questionnaire thus evaluating each song from an artists new CD for example.

The notification service module of the server notifies each fan registered on the server on the release of a new music CD from their favorite singer. Notification can be communicated by an SMS message sent to the mobile device by an email sent to the fan user s email address and by other means. The subscription module of the server prompts each of the interactive media recipients to subscribe to new services subscribe to become fan of other artists registered on the same fans club server etc. Also this module enables management of subscriptions management of payment options preferences adding additional recipients to a subscription etc. The subscription module keeps tracks of subscription details of each of the fans on the server .

The fan registration module of the fan club server receives all new fans registration information from the mobile phone . The fans database contains all the information on individual fans who have registered on the fan club server . The information on individual account includes the registration information configuration profile information subscription information purchase information etc.

The mobile phone receives the interactive media information and in some embodiment interactive media in the form of the screens assembled and delivered from the server . It can also in some embodiments receives interactive media in the form of embedded messages multimedia with music contents program codes etc. modules. It has interactive media client that runs from the mobile phone that facilitates interactions with the media distribution server and the display of interactive media for a user fan.

In one embodiment of the present invention the fans review system has a separate media distribution server . The media distribution server receives inputs pertaining to the generation of the interactive media from different service providers and interactive media recipients and generates the interactive media and delivers them to the fan s mobile phones . The required data for the various mobile display screens for each product presentation such as music CDs and songs are assembled and delivered to the mobile phone by media distribution the server .

The media distribution server comprises an interactive media database that stores all the generated interactive media. The interactive media description module receives inputs from the product or service companies and the mobile phone users and generates new interactive media assembling various components and inserting advertisements and other content as necessary. A sample and trial manger of the server facilitates trials of the music CDs. A workflow manger facilitates the interactions between the mobile device the fan club server and the media distribution server . For example it manages message and the control information flow between the mobile phone and the media distribution server .

The client computer is the artist or the music company s computer from which the interactive media typically multimedia with audio graphic video and textual components combined with multiple choice selections etc. with the music contents are created and uploaded to the media distribution server . The client computer has an upload and download manager which facilitates the uploading of the interactive media and the downloading of the fan s reviews reports etc. The upload and download manager also supports download of sales related information from the fan club server . A multimedia database has all the music content multimedia that are created in the client computer .

A media development interface of the client computer facilitates the creation and assembly of the various components such as the creation of new audio components or the assembly of graphics and video components of an interactive media created by an artist singer musician etc. or an employee of a music production company for example . An interaction configuration manger of the client computer facilitates setting up of the preferences and usage profiles for the interactive media. Several different parameters can be configured such as the order in which different components can be played the type of multiple choice selections whether they are exclusive or allow for multiple selections etc. In addition other preferences client side behavior can be configured such as the playing of an audio or the starting of a video as soon as a new item or next item is activated in the mobile device as opposed to the playing of an audio or the stating of a video upon an explicit user request trigger. The multimedia creation tool comprises all the applications that are used during the creation of the music songs or a video. It makes it possible to create new content edit them assemble them into an interactive media and incorporate new additional content into an existing interactive media. It also facilitates creating different versions of an interactive media such as those for different languages or those for different distributions points of locations and in managing them.

The mobile device displays personalized and interactive advertisements encountered in the interactive media. It facilitates forwarding by the user the interactive advertisements to another mobile device. The mobile device receives and stores a personalized and interactive advertisement in the mobile device on user selection and user action. In one embodiment the mobile device displays the personalized and interactive advertisement before displaying an interactive media received from the distribution server. In one embodiment the mobile device retrieves an interactive media from the distribution server and receives the interactive media along with an accompanying personalized and interactive advertisement.

In one embodiment the mobile device displays the accompanying personalized and interactive advertisement before during or after the display of the interactive media based on a configuration information provided by the distribution server. In a different embodiment the mobile device of plays the interactive media wherein it is an interactive mobile advertising content comprising at least one audio assisted mobile advertisement.

Some of the essential operations are performed on the mobile device itself. Performing the registration online billing and communicating with the media distribution server gathering user interaction data with the interactive media are managed by the interactive media client . User interaction data comprises user review information purchase related processing information user s request for a ringtone made from a current song being played on the mobile device user s request for a download of a graphic shown on the device etc. are all performed on the mobile device and communicated to a such as the fan club server in some deployments via a media distribution server . The interactive media configuration setting can also be performed on the mobile device . Some of these components of the interactive media client are downloaded from a server such as the fan club server online and installed on the mobile device . Others may be embedded in a device or provided as part of an pre installed software.

The interactive media client is typically a downloadable client although pre installed versions are contemplated. It comprises several client components including a new registration module which is used to setup the required protocol and provides the necessary interface for the user to create a new registration on the fans club server of . It directly interacts with the fans registration module of in one embodiment and thus facilitates the new registration of a mobile user from a mobile device who wants to become a fan of a specific artist or singer in accordance with the present invention.

A purchase module of the interactive media client is a client component that facilitates the purchase of the songs online or CDs from the mobile device . It interacts with the sales manager module of in accomplishing the purchase process. For example the purchase module gathers all the information entered into an invoice screen presented to a user. It tracks the songs selected from a CD in the invoice screen and associates them with their price and calculates the total. It communicates all the entries and the results from the invoice screen back to the server of for processing. It also tracks the payment made by the mobile device user fans and completes the transaction successfully with proper interface for the user entries.

The online billing module performs the function of online transaction during the purchase of the songs online. It gathers the collection of the online purchase details furnished by the mobile device user fans and activates the downloading of the songs purchased. It also accomplishes a bank cheque offline purchase based purchase of the CD. The bank cheque details and the shipping address of the CD etc. are communicated to the server and in turn to the music company that is marketing the song s CD. Prompting of a mobile device user for acknowledgement during a successful online transactions is also facilitated by the online billing module .

Feedback module is the client module that interacts with the feedback gathering module of in gathering all mobile device user fans interactive media review information from all the mobile device s and sends it to the server . The feedback information from the mobile device is a very important statistics to the artist or music company which may make vital decisions based on such gathered statistics. For example it may decide to whether release the songs of a proposed CD into the market or not based on such statistics. This information also provides a ground for them to make new strategy of marketing.

The configuration module helps with configuration of the user experience and the interactive media client behavior. It facilitates the customization fine tuning of the interactive media screen settings on the mobile device based on user preferences or device capabilities or both. This can effect the appearance of the screens or the order in which content is displayed rendered. The configuration information managed by this module may be selectively communicated to the media distribution server. This configuration module can also facilitate the configuration of the mobile device hardware information to enable the best display of the screens.

The user input interface provides support for the menu items and buttons that a user employs to interact with the interactive media client. For example it supports user selections using a select and cancel softkeys buttons from the keypad of the mobile device. It also supports changing the menu items associated with the softkeys and the way they are programmed for new functionality. It makes it possible to change menu items or add new ones such as adding a menu item for make ringtone and providing a menu item for next item for display. These menu items are associated with functions performed by the interactive media client and with features provided as required in this invention during the review of the songs and the purchase of items downloading ringtones associated with songs and interacting with the fans club server etc. The reconfigurable functionality of the softkeys select and cancel default functions provides the additional flexibility to accomplish the different objectives through softkey option button selections.

The fans club server facilitates at least two main objectives the first one being enabling any mobile device user to register from his her mobile phone as a fan of his her favorite singer to receive sample music that can be reviewed and feedback communicated back to the artist fans club server . The second objective being making available songs that are in a review stage for purchase by fans online on their mobile devices. Apart from these there are other functionalities that a fans club server accomplishes. Such functionalities are typically setting up a user account receiving the review data from fans maintaining a registration and review database and processing the review data collected from the fans to generate the statistics in a spreadsheet that can be downloaded or communicated to others. The other aspects of the fans club server functionalities comprise facilitating online and offline music purchase from a specific music company or a specific singer maintaining all the receipt and the billing information inserting mobile advertisements into interactive media sent to the fans etc.

In one embodiment the media distribution server of does the function of generating the interactive media and its distribution among the mobile phone users while interacting with the fans club server as necessary. The starting inputs in the form of interactive media such as songs music videos multimedia for generating the interactive media are provided by a client computer from which an artist or a music company provides these inputs.

In one embodiment of the present invention the interactive media generation and its distribution is performed by the fans club server module called the media distribution module . It receives the multimedia with music contents from the client computer of of the artist or the music company and generates the interactive media. The generated interactive media are distributed among the mobile devices of the registered fans of an artist. In one embodiment the workflow manager facilitates the setting up of the handshake communication protocol during the exchange of control information embedded program codes and other messages between the mobile phone of and the fans club server so as to assemble and deliver display screens to the mobile phone .

An interactive media library contains all the generated interactive media stored in the form of a library. It includes a music library a video library a graphics library and other categories of content to be delivered. In addition it maintains a queue of interactive media to be delivered to the mobile device and an old interactive media queue of interactive media already delivered to the mobile device .

An interactive media description module receives the multimedia with music contents as inputs from an artist or a music company typically sent from a client computer. It also receives the interactive inputs such as user response and control information from the mobile phone users and dynamically generates new interactive media or new portions of a current interactive media and delivers it to the mobile device . A phone number cache is associated with the media distribution module for temporary caching of the fan s mobile phone numbers during the interactive media distribution process.

A fans database of the fans club server comprises fans registration information and the fans review data . The fans registration information contains all the registration information of the fans and their subscription information. A registrant in this database can be a fan of multiple artists. Being a fan of multiple artists is supported by the subscription module of . The fan s review data is the song wise and artist wise review information submitted by an individual fan within his account.

A spreadsheet generator module retrieves the fans review data and sorts it out in artist wise and generates artist wise spreadsheet from which it computes the statistics. The computed statistics enables the music company to conclude whether to release the music CD in the market or not in its current form based on feedback received. The decision can be based their level of confidence and the computed confidence factor computed statistics .

The fans registration module of repeated facilitates the new registration a user performs from his mobile phone of . A fan can forward and prompt some other mobile phone user to become a fan of his artist by sending the list of songs on a screen with a register soft button. He can play those songs on his mobile phone and decide to select register soft button from the forwarded screen and may decide for a registration. He will be guided successively until he successfully finishes the registration. During this process he interacts with the fans club server via the fans registration module . Once a user registers he will have an account setup for him which he can further configure and customize. The user account setup module facilitates the configuration of an user s account. An user is a fan of at least one registered artist on the fans club server . The fan can add more number of artists into his her account and the fan club server facilitates the review and online purchase of their songs.

A billing and the online pay manager manages all the billing and the online payment for the songs or CDs that are purchased. It also maintains the offline purchase details. The offline purchase is the delivery of the songs on a CD to the mobile phone user address. The mobile phone user pays through sending bank cheque with all its details provided online.

A review receiver receives all the reviews provided by the mobile device user during the review of a song and aggregates them into the fans review data . An aggregate interactive media database on the fans club server stores all the aggregation of the generated interactive media collected in the past and those currently provided by users at present i.e. new ones . Thus this database constitutes a reference database. All the newly uploaded multimedia with the music contents are aggregated into a database called the aggregate uploaded media database . The interactive media description module retrieves all the uploaded multimedia with music content and generates the interactive media that are subsequently delivered to the fan s mobile phone.

Typical interactions in the fan network of is a two way simultaneous transmission in both directions operation on the network that is employed during an entire communication transaction process thus shown with two opposite arrows in between those entities. This indicates that the data transmission is in two directions. The client computer the fans club server the media distribution server and the fans club server are also communicatively coupled using the network of .

In the process of the interactive dataflow shown in server side programs interact with the client side programs or scripts . This results in providing the dynamic contents delivered from the server to the mobile phone as needed. From the server side the programs generate the interactive media or screens to be displayed on the mobile phone receiving the inputs from the client computer and the mobile phone users from their mobile phone .

The fans review system comprises the client computer similar to of the mobile phone similar to of the fans club server similar to of and the media distribution server similar to of that are all communicatively coupled using the network of . From the client computer a music company or an artist uploads the songs or the multimedia with music contents to be reviewed before releasing it into the market. The artist uses the multimedia creation tool mentioned as of from the client computer for developing the multimedia content such as a CD with music contents .

In one embodiment the client computer uploads the multimedia content with the music contents to the fans club server . The interactive media description module of of the fans club server generates the interactive media that will be delivered to the mobile phone . The user interacts with the interactive media to evaluate its contents and selectively provide feedback. During the generation of the interactive media from the fans club server the interactive media description module assembles a questionnaire that comprises a collection of items one item per song for example with multiple choices for each item for user feedback and an optional graphics image for display. This questionnaire is communicated to the mobile phone along with the other multimedia contents and the text to be displayed for the soft button option buttons.

The media description module of the fans club server describes the interactive media with the multimedia with music contents. It provides information for each song music in a CD DVD or collection on the genre the size of the songs music the date of creation the identification information details about its creation and recording its release dates etc. It generates the interactive media based on components provided in one embodiment wherein the components can be individual songs music items graphics video portions textual portions templates etc. and queues them up into a music library and stores in interactive media library of .

When user selects All music menu it opens into another submenu containing the artists names who have registered and uploaded their media with music contents on the fans club server of . Each artist are released their latest songs on different CDs. When mobile phone user selects an artist name it opens into another level of submenu containing all the CDs with recently released songs by that artist. When a CD is selected from the submenu list by the mobile phone user the media distribution module loads the contents of the selected CD as a list of songs in a new screen in accordance with the present invention.

If the mobile phone user selects any songs from the new screen a textual description of the song is displayed in a text pane and associated graphics displayed in the video display pane. Image of the artist will be displayed in the picture pane. A questionnaire question item in the form of multiple choices is displayed in a separate pane window.

The screen snapshot of is the welcome screen with the associated menus and submenus. The list of items menu has all the components of the interactive media library categorized as all music all videos all images etc. with each one them having submenus associated with them indicated by an arrow head. In this exemplary screen snapshot the menu item is selected to open its submenu all music . The submenu has the artist wise categorization such as artist artist artist etc.

Submenus corresponding to each artist have all the CDs on which the new songs are expected to be released after the review process. An example item from the submenu is selected as artist which opens as a next level of the submenu artist . This submenu has many items which are basically different CDs such as CD CD etc. from the same artist artist opened as a submenu . Each CD is a group of songs on it planned to be released after the review done by the mobile phone user fans.

The option button pane of the welcome screen of has select subscribe register forward next print and the done soft buttons. The select soft button selects an item from the menu. The subscribe button facilitates the subscription for new services and allows the mobile phone user to include to his account setup an additional artist as his her favorite.

The Register soft button is used for registering as new fan of a specific artist. The Forward soft button allows the current mobile phone user to forward the current screen to some other mobile phone user so that he can do reviewing purchasing etc. and do fresh registration if he is not registered yet on the fans club server as a fan.

The next soft button displays next screen print soft button to print the current screen on a wireless printer and the done soft button restores the power on screen.

The keypad contains the joystick for navigating in the list and submenus a select button softkey and the cancel softkey . The select softkey selects the submenus items etc. the cancel softkey takes the mobile phone back to the previous submenu item etc.

When a user selects and opens a CD item all the songs on it are displayed on a next screen . As an exemplary CD item CD of is selected to open the corresponding screen . Its path is displayed as All Music Artist Artist CD for tracing back with respect to the welcome screen. When the selection of a song is done using the softkey from the keypad key the audio clip or entire song will be played on the mobile phone of . Apart from this a textual and a video description of the song will be depicted in the separate panes viz. and respectively. Also an image or a photo of the singer artist will be displayed in a separate pane .

Just below the textual description pane is the questionnaire in the form of multiple choice presented to the mobile phone user. The multiple choice consists of the items viz. Great OK Don t Like Seen Similar and Purchase options with each of them associated with a radio button. The mobile phone user will select any of these items by clicking the respective radio button. Upon selection of the radio button an associated numerical value with each choice item excluding the purchase option will be taken as a sample value or review . If the mobile phone user selects the purchase option radio button a purchase process will be initiated.

From the screen a mobile phone user can make arbitrary selection of songs from within a CD or from different CDs and rate them according to his opinion. Also he she can opt for purchasing using the radio button option purchase .

The option button pane of the CD screen of has send button cancel select next prev. print forward and make ringtone soft buttons. The send button sends the review of the currently evaluated song. The cancel button facilitates the cancellation of a selection already done. The select button selects an item submenu etc. The next and the prev buttons help in navigation to next screen or a previous screen. The print button is used to print the screen content on a wireless printer. The Forward soft button allows the current mobile phone user to forward the current screen to some other mobile phone user so that he can do reviewing purchasing etc. and do fresh registration if he is not registered yet on the fans club server as a fan of listed artists on that fans club server. The Make ringtone soft button allows mobile phone user make the currently played reviewed song as his her ringtone on their mobile phone.

The keypad contains the joystick for navigating in the list a select softkey and the cancel softkey . The select softkey selects the submenu items etc. the cancel softkey takes the mobile phone back to the previous submenu item etc.

Although shows an options button pane comprising several buttons it should be appreciated that these selectable buttons can be displayed as menu items in a drop down menu. Thus in a related embodiment the buttons of the options button pane are presented to a user as menu items that can be selected by a user from a menu that opens up when an appropriate softkey is activated by the user. The same is true for the option button pane of

When the mobile phone user initiates the purchase operation by selecting the purchase button option from and sends the purchase list using the send button from the fans club server of generates the invoice screen and communicates back to the mobile phone.

When a song is selected using the radio button its price gets displayed or highlighted in the price pane . The total button is the total of all the songs appear in the price pane in the field labeled total amount . The totaled numerical value that gets displayed is the sum of all the prices of the selected songs using their radio button. The price of each song will be displayed in the field labeled price of song price of song price of song etc. in the price pane . Totaling will be done dynamically upon selecting or deselecting of each song from the purchase list pane .

Upon totaling the prices for the selected songs mobile phone user selects approve soft button which sends this information to the fans club server. The mobile phone user can also cancel the purchase transaction using the cancel soft button.

The keypad comprises joystick key selection key and the cancel key . Navigation within a menu is accomplished using the key . Selecting a menu or a submenu is accomplished using the selection key . A selection can be deselected using the cancel key . When the mobile phone user approves his her invoice using the approve button selection the fans club server sends another screen to prompting payment with modes of payment.

If the user opts for online payment then a credit card details window pops up. The credit card details window has all the details a mobile phone user has entered. The card type is the text prompting the mobile phone user to enter the credit card type in the type here field . The credit No. text prompts the mobile phone user to enter the credit card number in the type here field . Upon entering the details the user can submit those details by selecting the send soft button from the option button pane .

If the mobile phone user selects the Cheque option from the payment modes pane then the bank cheque details and address to be sent window pops up. This window prompts user to enter the bank cheque number with a text label display . User enters the bank cheque number in the type here field . The bank name and its branch are prompted with a text message label Bank Br. . User enters the name of the bank and its branch name in the type here field . He will send the bank cheque to the address furnished in the field within the same pane . The street address city state and the country names are displayed for the user information to the where the bank cheque has to be sent.

Further the user is prompted with a CD to be delivered address pane . It contains the text display labels corresponding to the street address city state country labels. In response to this messages user enters the street address in the type here field city in the type here field state in the type here field and the country in the type here field to furnish his contact address to which the CD to be sent.

Upon providing all the details for either the online or the Cheque options the user sends the information to the fans club server using the send soft button from the option button pane . Transaction entries can be cancelled using the cancel soft button . For the online purchase option user can download the purchased songs using the download soft button . Again the keypad contains a joystick for navigation within a menu or a submenu. A selection key facilitates the selection functionalities and the cancel key facilitates the cancellation of the current selections.

The textual contents embedded in the XML code and sent to the mobile phone is a brief description of the songs such as writer and singer names title of the song recorded date etc. The audio and video content is the actual multimedia content delivered to the mobile phone user for review and purchase. The image content includes the image of the artist displayed on the screen of in the picture pane .

The softkey configuration information contains the code that runs and reconfigure the softkeys on the keypad for new functionalities. The display configuration contents include the information that configures the screen display on mobile phones of different make. Feedback queries contents include the queries sent to mobile phone for gathering the response from the mobile phone user. The option button text is the text displayed on any option soft buttons in the option button pane of the screens delivered on the mobile phones.

During the delivery of the music and other multimedia contents in the form of interactive media to the mobile phone from the fans club server messages contents Java code and control information are exchanged between them in a predefined sequence. The interactive media is generated dynamically by the interactive media description module of by receiving the inputs from the client computer and from the mobile phone .

The inputs from the client computer are the multimedia with music contents created by the multimedia creation tool of . The other inputs from the client computer are artist image or picture uploaded from the client computer to the fans club server . Inputs from the mobile phone are interactive and dynamic and depend on the decisions made by a mobile phone user during his interaction with media delivered on his mobile phone.

The message or the control information emerging from an entity is represented as an emerging arrow towards the destination entity shown skewed to indicate the inherent time delay during the data information transmission back and forth on the network of . The timeline on left of indicates the progressing time. Newly created multimedia content message is uploaded from the client computer to the fans club server . This includes other contents such as artist image pictures etc. The fans club server s interactive media description module of generates new interactive media and stores in a music library of .

The New interactive media library message is delivered to the mobile phone . From the mobile phone user interactively selects list of CDs by sending the choose CD message to the fans club server pertaining to an artist such as a submenu artist of and opens the artist CD screen of delivered by the fans club server . User selects a CD from list of CDs delivered to the mobile phone by sending the choose CD control information to the fans club server. In response to this fans club server delivers list of songs on a CD by delivering a new screen of as a new message . The mobile phone user selects songs of his choice from the presented screen as described in the . This screen contains all the songs on a selected CD from where the mobile phone user will choose songs review and submit as explained with .

From the selected CDs of an artist mobile phone user selects songs and play them for trial. Depending on his her feeling opinion towards the song they answer the questionnaire by clicking the corresponding radio button from to as described with . Chosen music from the CD is communicated to the fans club server as the choose music message . In response to this the fans club server sends a message prompting the mobile phone user for a trial. The mobile phone user plays each of the selected songs and rates them using the multiple choice radio button and submit reviews as control information to the fans club server.

Next the fans club server prompt mobile phone user for a purchase sending a message . In response to the mobile phone user responds by a selection CD through the control information . When the CD is selected and communicated to the fans club server the list of songs on the CD is presented to the user on an invoice form screen as explained in the in the form of the message sent to the mobile phone user. Selected songs from a CD or group of CD from an artist or different artist are communicated back to the fans club server from the invoice screen of in the form of message .

Upon message the mobile phone user will be prompted for payment by presenting screen of with message . The payment details with the download request are submitted by the user as message to the fans club server. This payment details are forwarded to the client computer as the message the information of the music company. In the meantime mobile phone user is prompted with download message .

If the mobile phone user opts for an offline purchase sending a bank cheque to the music company he she will enter the bank cheque details and the contact address details as message which will be forwarded to client computer as message . The music company from the client computer will send an acknowledge message to the fans club server on the receipt of message and dispatch the music CD subsequently. The fans club server forwards as a forwarded acknowledgement to the mobile phone. When the CD is received by the mobile phone user he she will acknowledge the CD receipt to the fans club server as the message which gets forwarded as message to the music company client computer .

Flowchart of is the process performed by the fans club server during distribution interactive media and its subsequent interaction with the mobile phone. After starting at at the next block it receives starting inputs from the client computer in the form of multimedia with music contents at the following block the fans club server s workflow manager of setups a handshake communication protocol for an interaction with the fan s mobile phones. At the next block it generates the interactive media based on the music company provided external inputs such as the multimedia music contents and its metadata. Upon this it distributes the generated interactive media at the next block on fan s mobile phones.

At the next block the fans club server receives the response from the mobile phone user interaction data in the form of music review data and the option selection control information etc. At the decision block the fans club server checks whether send button pressed on the mobile phone. It it s true at the next block it receives the music review information and processes the welcome screen and delivers to mobile phone. Otherwise the fans club server checks whether cancel button selected at the decision block . If it s found to be true it processes the initial welcome screen and communicates to the mobile phone.

After processing the welcome screen at the block the fans club server checks whether the user selected the done option button at the decision block . If it s found to be true it process the power on screen at the block delivers on the mobile phone and proceeds to the block to update the review database and acknowledge the mobile phone user. At the decision block if the test fails it goes back to the block from where it checks whether there is any new multimedia contents uploaded by any client and proceeds.

At the decision block if test fails it goes to the next decision block to check whether the purchase option button is selected by the user. If it s found to be true it sets up the purchase communication protocol and processes the purchase operation. After performing the purchase operations at the block it goes back to the block from where it checks whether there is any new multimedia contents uploaded by any client and proceeds.

At the decision block if the test fails it goes to the next block at the block the fans club server checks whether other option buttons are selected and processes the corresponding screens and communicate them to the mobile phone. Following this it updates the review database and sends the necessary acknowledgement to the mobile phone users at the block and ends the operation at the block .

An artist or a music company communicates with the fans club server for two main purposes viz. uploading the multimedia with music contents and for downloading the mobile phone user s review statistics. In order to perform these operations the client artist or a music company runs an application in order to set up communication between the client computer and the fans club server. By running an application for e.g. a web browser the client can login and perform upload to or download from the fans club server.

Flowchart of is the process performed by the fans club server of during an interaction between a client artist or a music company and the fans club server for uploading the multimedia with music content and downloading the trial songs review statistics. After starting at at next block the fans club server establishes communication with the client computer of . In order to establish communication the client runs an application from his her client computer . At the next block when the application program is run on the client computer fans club server prompts for login and client will login. Subsequently the fans club server receives the configuration preferences that a client has set or has subscribed for availing particular type of service are received by the fans club server at the next block . After receiving the configuration preferences at the fans club server prompts the client with various option buttons through which he she can interact and perform the required task at the block .

Next at the decision block the fans club server tests whether the selected option is uploading of multimedia content request. If it is true then the fans club server of prompts artist or the client in the browser window for uploading the multimedia content file at the block . Next at the block it receives the client opened multimedia file and ends process at block .

If the test fails the at decision block then the fans club server test whether the request is made for downloading review statistics at the decision block . If it s found to be true the client or the artist will be presented with relevant spreadsheet files at the block . The client will be prompted for the download with a download option button on the browser at the block to finish the downloading of the relevant spreadsheet to end the process at the block . If the test fails at the decision block the fans club server goes to the last block to the end the operation.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the terms operably coupled and communicatively coupled as may be used herein include direct coupling and indirect coupling via another component element circuit or module where for indirect coupling the intervening component element circuit or module does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As one of ordinary skill in the art will also appreciate inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two elements in the same manner as operably coupled and communicatively coupled. 

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of certain significant functions. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

Moreover although described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding by way of the aforementioned embodiments the present invention is not limited to such embodiments. It will be obvious to one of average skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be practiced within the spirit and scope of the invention as limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

