---

title: Software program and method for offering promotions on a phone
abstract: The present invention includes a method and software application for providing a promotion to a user on a phone. The software application resides on a user's phone and “listens” for phone numbers dialed by a user. In response to the user dialing a phone number, the software determines whether a promotion or an offer for a promotion should be provided to the user. In response to determining to play or offer to play a promotion to the user, the software application on the phone effectively “intercepts” the call and plays to the user either a promotion or an offer to hear about a promotion prior to placing an outbound voice call. The software application may retrieve the promotion from local memory or may connect with a remote server to download an applicable promotion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135638&OS=09135638&RS=09135638
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 09135638
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130823
---
This application is a continuation of prior co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 619 453 entitled Software Program and Method for Offering Promotions on a Phone and filed on Sep. 14 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 636 172 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 280 360 the contents of which are incorporated by reference as if fully disclosed herein.

This invention relates generally to telecommunications and more specifically to a providing promotions to users on a phone.

Providing users with promotions when they search the Internet is well in known in the art. Many search engines will display ads to users based on the search terms they enter. The key to effective advertising is to target promotions to the right users. Phone numbers dialed by phone users can be an effective way to target promotions. This is largely an untapped area for targeting promotions to users although it is known in the art to play an ad to a customer once they call into an Interactive Voice Response System IVR . For instance if a user calls the 1 800 number of an airline they may first hear a promotion related to the airline before being routed to the applicable agent or point in the IVR system. Several companies such as Bevocal Inc. and Tellme Inc. provide applications for IVR systems that can play a promotion to a user at the start of a call.

One deficiency with the foregoing method is that a promotion is not played to a user until a voice call is actually placed to an IVR destination. Consequently the promotions that are played are usually promotions associated or approved by the party that owns the phone number associated with the IVR system e.g. the airline that owns the 1 800 number dialed by the user . In such case it is not possible for a competitor to pay for a promotion to be played when a user dials a phone number for a competing business. Therefore there is a desire for a decentralized more flexible way to play promotions to users via the phone.

The present invention provides a method and software application for offering a promotion to a user that had dialed a phone number on a phone. The software application resides on a user s phone and listens for phone numbers dialed by a user. In response to the user dialing a phone number the software application determines whether or not to play or offer to play a promotion to a user. This determination may be based on one or more factors such as the phone number dialed by the user user profile information and user location. In response to determining to play or offer to play a promotion to the user the software application on the phone effectively intercepts the call and plays to the user either a promotion or an offer to hear about a promotion prior to placing an outbound voice call. The software application may retrieve the promotion from local memory or may connect with a remote server to download an applicable promotion.

In one embodiment if the user is eligible for a promotion the phone automatically plays the promotion to the user and then places a call to the phone number dialed by the user. In an alternate embodiment instead of automatically playing the promotion the user is offered a chance to hear the promotion. If the user does not respond to the offer within a select period of time the phone places a call to the dialed phone number without playing the promotion. If the user opts in to the offer the promotion is provided to the user. In another alternate embodiment when a user is eligible for a promotion the user must make a selection to either listen to the promotion or continue with the call without hearing about the promotion.

The phone or more specifically software on the phone listens for phone numbers dialed by a user on the phone step . When a user dials a phone number software on the phone determines whether or not a promotion should be played to the user step . In one embodiment this determination is based at least in part on the phone number dialed by the user. Specifically in such embodiment a determination is made as to whether or not the phone number is associated with a promotion. Alternate or additional factors in determining whether to play a promotion can include user profile information and user location. Information necessary to make the determination in step may be stored locally on the phone or the phone may connect with a remote server to download such information e.g. an application on a remote server may determine whether a promotion should be played to the user and then inform software on the phone of this decision . If a decision is made not to play a promotion to the user the phone places a call to the dialed phone number i.e. dials the phone number step . Otherwise the phone provides the user with the promotion prior to placing a call to the dialed phone number step . The promotion may be stored locally on the phone or the phone may download the promotion from a server. After playing the promotion the phone then initiates a call to the dialed phone number .

In this embodiment the promotion may be provided in audio and or visual form. It can be provided in audio form as a voice prompt and in visual form as text graphics video and or flash files in the user interface of the phone.

The promotion can be any type of promotion. Examples of the type of promotions include information about a business associated with or competing with the number being dialed. The promotion may include information about a product offering or sale.

As an example of the method described with respect to assume there is a promotion associated with a restaurant called Lake Como Pizza that is to be played when the user dials the phone number for Lake Como Pizza. When the user dials the phone number for Lake Como Pizza the user hears something like the following before the call is placed 

As an example of the method described with respect to assume there is a promotion associated with a restaurant called Lake Como Pizza that is to be played when the user dials the phone number for any other local pizza restaurant. When the user dials the phone number for a pizza restaurant the user hears something like the following before the call is placed 

 Get 3 off a Lake Como Pizza order when you mention phone offer. Dial 1 or stay online to continue with this call. Press 2 to dial Lake Como Pizza instead. 

As an example of the method described with respect to assume once again that there is a promotion associated with a restaurant called Lake Como Pizza that is to be played when a user dials a phone number for any other local pizza restaurant. When the user dials the phone number for a pizza restaurant the user hears something like the following before an outbound call is initiated 

 Press or say 1 to continue with this call. Press or say 2 to hear more about a Lake Como Pizza offer. 

In this example the user must make a choice before further action takes place. If the user presses or says 1 the phone initiates an outbound call to the number dialed by the user. If the user says or presses 2 the Lake Como Pizza promotion is played to the user such as the example promotion set forth above .

With respect to ways in which promotions can be communicated the promotion can be communicated in audio and or visual form as discussed above. With respect to content of promotions the content of the promotion may relate to a business associated the number dialed by the user or to a business that is complementary to or competing with such business. The promotion may include an offer to connect a user to a competing or complementary business instead of the number dialed by the user. The promotion may include information about a product offer or a sale associated with a business. It may also include a coupon or a reward for acting upon a product offer e.g. free game or other application free ringtone etc. . The promotion may also include the ability to save the promotion information or coupon in the promotion for a later time.

One or more factors can be used to determine which promotion to play to the user . For example selection of the promotion may be based on the number dialed by the user user profile information in the case of wireless phone users this can be user profile information collected by a wireless communication carrier previous promotions played to a user and or previous phone numbers dialed by a user. Also promotion slots may be sold or auctioned off to advertisers and in such cases the promotion played to the user may be the promotion desired by the advertiser that paid for such promotion slot.

With respect to factors that can be user to determine whether to play a promotion to a user i.e. whether a user is eligible for a promotion such determination can be based on one or more factors. One factor can be whether or not the phone number dialed by the user is associated with a promotion. Other factors can include user profile information previous promotions played to user previous phone numbers dialed by the user and the location of the user.

The voice or data files with voice prompts and text graphics videos files for promotions may be stored locally on the phone or remotely on a server with which the phone communicates. In the preferred embodiment when the user dials a phone number software on the phone connects to a remote server to check whether or not the user is eligible for a promotion. If so the promotion is downloaded to the phone from the server and the phone then plays or offers to play the promotion to the user. In an alternate embodiment promotions for select phone numbers are periodically downloaded i.e. pushed to the phone.

In one embodiment listening to a phone number involves monitoring the sequence of keystrokes entered by a user prior to a user hitting the send call dial or other button associated with dialing a call and or monitoring phone numbers entered through voice activated dialing such as when a user says voice mail to dial the phone number for voice mail . A phone number is not limited to a seven or ten digit phone number for the purposes of this invention. Rather it can be any sequence of numbers or characters that can be used to generate an outbound call. For example shortcut phone numbers such as 411 or 669 can be phone numbers for the purposes of this invention.

In alternate embodiment of the methods described with respect to such methods do not include the step of determining whether or not to provide the user with a promotion or an offer for a promotion steps and . Instead every time the user makes a phone call the user is automatically provided a promotion or an offer for a promotion.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a phone will include additional functionality not represented by the above modules. However such functionality is well known in the art and a discussion of such functionality is not relevant for an understanding of the invention described herein. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be many ways to implement the present invention and the software implementation described herein with respect to is just one example of an implementation.

The keystroke event dispatcher buffers keystrokes entered by the phone user and provides such keystrokes to other applicable applications on the phone that register for keystroke events. The dialer application registers for keystroke events and dials phone numbers entered by the user unless such phone numbers are first consumed by the interceptor application . The user interface application enables the display of information in the user interface on the phone.

The interceptor application and the promotion applications are the modules that perform the functions described with respect to . The interceptor application registers for keystroke events as a higher priority application than the dialer module and listens for phone numbers. The interceptor application communicates with the keystroke event dispatcher via an applicable event listener application programming interface API .

The promotion application is launched by the interceptor application in response to the interceptor application determining that a user should be played or offered a promotion. The promotion application provides the user with the promotion or the option to obtain the promotion.

If the phone has voice activated dialing the interceptor application can also receive voice activated dial events and launch the promotion application when a voice activated dial command corresponds to a promotion.

When launched the promotion application provides the user with an option to hear a promotion associated with the phone number dialed by the user or to stay online and continue with the call step . In one embodiment if the user stays online and does not make a selection after a period of time the promotion application makes the call to the phone number originally dialed by the user or instructs the dialer application to make such call step . In one embodiment the promotion application uses an applicable phone call API to make the call.

If the user elects to hear the promotion the promotion application provides the applicable promotion to the user . Depending on the implementation the promotion application may retrieve the promotion file from local storage on the phone or from a remote server . The promotion application or a remote server if applicable may apply pre programmed rules to determine which promotion to play to the user. The rules may weigh various factors such as the factors illustrated in . Applying rules to select which advertisements promotions to play to users is well known in the art.

After the user plays the promotion to the user the promotion application may dial or instruct the dialer application to dial the phone number originally dialed by the user. Alternately if the promotion included an option to dial an alternate number and this option was accepted by the user the promotion application will dial or instruct the dialer application to dial the alternate phone number.

The invention is in no way limited to the above requirements. They merely reflect one way in which to implement the invention.

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Accordingly the above disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative and not limiting of the invention.

