---

title: Personalized video channel control
abstract: Video content is identified by a source component via a processor from a plurality of media sources. The media sources can comprise a wireless broadcast media channel, a web site, a web data feed, and/or a wired broadcast channel for communication via a personalized video channel. A profile component can determine user profile data that includes user preferences associated with a first client device for the video content and the plurality of media sources. A control component can generate a set of viewing controls associated with the user profile data that control transmission of the video content via the personalized video channel. A streaming component is configured to communicate the set of predicted video content from the plurality of media sources to a mobile component via the personalized video channel based on the set of viewing controls and the user profile data. The personalized video channel can be re-configured to communicate, at different times, the video content identified from different media sources of the plurality of media sources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113208&OS=09113208&RS=09113208
owner: SQUAREDON CO LTD
number: 09113208
owner_city: Larnaca
owner_country: CY
publication_date: 20130318
---
The subject application relates to video content and in particular to personalizing and controlling a personalized video channel.

Media content can consist of various forms of media and the contents that make up the different forms of media. For example a film video movie or motion picture can comprise a series of still or moving images that are rapidly put together and projected onto from a display. The video is produced by recording photographic images with cameras or by creating images using animation techniques or visual effects. The process of filmmaking has developed into an art form and a large industry which continues to provide entertainment to masses of people especially during times of war or calamity.

Typical television or video programming provides a set programming schedule combining pre set programming that is sequentially broadcast to a user via a particular channel. The user establishes what television programming channel and the corresponding times that the programs are being broadcasted. The user is then able to select from among a set number of broadcast channels programming and or times for the video. As a result the user relies on the taste of the broadcasting studio to provide interesting content at available times and on available channels for viewing. If the content is not suitable another broadcast channel is selected or the user can opt to find different television entertainment such as a movie rental paid programming online streaming and or rely upon recording devices to store the video on a particular channel for later viewing. The above trends or deficiencies are merely intended to provide an overview of some conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects disclosed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of the aspects disclosed. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments for evaluating and communicating media content and or media content portions corresponding to various media sources via a personalized video channel are described herein. An exemplary system comprises a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory which is configured to facilitate execution of the computer executable components. The computer executable components comprise a source component configured to identify video content from a plurality of media sources to communicate the video content from the plurality of media sources at different times respectively via a personalized video channel. A profile component is configured to determine user profile data that includes user preferences associated with a client device for the video content and the plurality of media sources. A control component is configured to generate a set of viewing controls associated with the user profile data that control transmission of the video content via the personalized video channel. A streaming component is configured to communicate the video content of the plurality of media sources at the different times respectively via the personalized video channel based on the set of viewing controls and the user profile data.

In yet another non limiting embodiment an exemplary method comprises identifying by a system comprising at least one processor video content from a plurality of media sources for configuring a personalized video channel. The method comprises identifying video content from a plurality of media sources to communicate the video content from different media sources of the plurality of media sources at different times respectively via a personalized video channel. User profile data is determined that comprises a set of user preferences for the video content and the plurality of media sources. A set of viewing controls is generated that is associated with the user profile data that control transmission of the video content via the personalized video channel. The video content is streamed via the personalized video channel based on the user profile data.

In still another non limiting embodiment an exemplary tangible computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a computing system including at least one processor to perform operations. The operations comprise identifying video content from media sources comprising at least two of a wireless broadcast media channel a web site a web data feed a wired broadcast channel or a video library. A set of user profile data is determined for configuring a personalized video channel in communication with a first client device. A set of viewing controls associated with a subset of user profile data of the set of user profile data sets a limit and monitors viewing of the video content via the personalized video channel at the first client device or a second client device. The operations include configuring the personalized video channel based on the set of user profile data to communicate the video content from the media sources at defined times.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the various embodiments may be employed. The disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the various embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments and examples are described below with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details in the form of examples are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however that these specific details are not necessary to the practice of such embodiments. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate description of the various embodiments.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

As utilized herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a processor a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a storage device and or a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon such as with a module for example. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network etc. with other systems via the signal .

As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry the electric or electronic circuitry can be operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by one or more processors the one or more processors can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include one or more processors therein to execute software and or firmware that confer s at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

The word exemplary and or demonstrative is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements. The word set is also intended to mean one or more. 

In consideration of the above described trends or deficiencies among other things various embodiments are provided that aggregate video content into a single personalized communication channel and or into multiple personalized channels that are configured independently according to user profile data a subset or sub profile data of the user profile data for one or more different users e.g. children friends family a user s likes and dislikes for timing content and or source of content for each personalized channel. For example video content can be obtained from one or more media sources such as social networks news feeds web page feeds broadcast networks internet subscription services etc. and aggregated for viewing as a single communication channel via a user device and or a display component of a user device e.g. a mobile device a personal computing device and or other video viewing device based on user profile data and a set of user controls which can be defined by at least part of authorized user profile data. The system operates to personally configure personal channels independently according to a user profile data and the set of user controls.

For example parents like to have control over their children s electronic viewing and or interaction with video content such as video gaming content and the like. This includes not only content that the children are allowed to watch but also time the children area allowed to spend in from of TV. For those parents who desire to control what their kids are viewing a second screen supervision functionality can be provided for example that gives parents a tool to limit a period of time or define a duration that their kids can spend watching TV and at the same time make it as less stressful for children as possible by introducing game mechanics within the user controls that dynamically interact with the children via the personalized viewing channel. Parents can also monitor or supervise viewing from another client device e.g. mobile device personal computing and or other video viewing device . This enables features such as watching duration limitation game mechanics that make it minimally unpleasant for children and second screen supervision or monitoring. While the above example is provided for illustration with regards to parents other circumstances can also enable user controls to monitor viewing of any additional user subscriber and or recipient of the personalized viewing channel to enable a user authorized to configure the personalized video channel to control sharing publishing of the video content the different media sources aggregated through the channel and the schedule for additional viewers.

In one embodiment a sub profile or a subset of the user profile data can be established that corresponds to one or more other users. For example a child s sub profile can be created under a parents profile data. Parents that configure the personalized video channel can set a watching duration limitation a timed duration mark content that is inappropriate for their kids for blocking and have real time access from another device. Thus when a child desires to watch video content parents can switch a viewing device to a kids profile or maintain one device under controlled by one sub profile configuration for the personalized video channel s and another device under another set of sub profile data to be applied automatically. When the timed duration comes to an end a set cartoon character based on the interactive gaming control s set can be communicated via a display component of the viewing client device that screen that communicates that there is only one cartoon left so many minutes etc. and then the channel will be turned off or blocked for further viewing on the particular viewing device being used.

Referring to illustrated is an example system that generates a user configured video channel based on a user profile in accordance with various embodiments disclosed. System can include a memory or data store s that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the data store s examples of which can also be found with reference to other figures disclosed herein and throughout such as the computer device of and elsewhere. The system for example includes a computing device that can include a mobile device a smart phone a laptop personal digital assistant personal computer mobile phone a hand held device digital assistant and or other similar device which can include hardware and or software communicating via a network a wireless and or wired transmission.

The computing device operates to receive and aggregate multiple media sources and or media source streams such as by address user profile data subscription service network affiliation e.g. network subscription social network profile blog feed etc. and corresponding content e.g. news broadcast television programming web cast web page feeds personal data and other media content into a single communication channel to be rendered in a display component for viewing by the user implementing the channel configurations and also by friends of other mobile devices that can interact for a community experience at scheduled broadcast times. The computing device comprises various components that can operate and or communicate via a network the user configured personalized video channel wired and or wireless communication channels and the like. The computing device comprises a source component a profile component a control component and a streaming component that can operate synergistically to obtain media content e.g. video content from various media sources aggregate the media content via the processor and data store s and dynamically communicate the media content in response to user profile data via a single channel .

The source component is configured to obtain video content from a set of media sources. The source component operates for example to identify video content from a plurality of media sources comprising a wireless broadcast media channel a web page a web feed and or a wired broadcast for communication via the personalized video channel examples of which can include social network feeds programming feeds news feeds local channel digital analog broadcasting over air cable broadcasting internet content video rental subscription services on the internet and the like. The source component can be hardware e.g. a processor and or software that searches networked communications wireless communications via an antennae receiver transceiver device wired communications e.g. optical two wire etc. local broadcasting network web feeds news feeds web page content data store s and the like. For example the source component is configured to dynamically identify broadcasted content from local broadcasting stations of locally aired programming identify cable broadcast for paid unpaid programming TV guide and or other scheduling resources that publish scheduling or video content information as it is updated as metadata a separate web page connection and or broadcast communication. The source component further operates to identify and receive Rich Site Summary for new feeds of updated page content from social networks channel pages and or subscribed services for video as well as identify any other media source that communicates individual studio produced network uploaded etc. video content for viewing at user defined preference times with user defined sources on a user controlled channel.

Various video content or media content sources can be identified via the source component utilizing a user profile user profile data generated by the profiling profile component such as by directing video content from a network address receiving subscribed feed data accessing user profiles through the profile data dynamically local channel subscriptions other video content subscriptions web sites or portals personalized video libraries wireless broadcast video content reception cable streaming and the like. The profiling component is configured to generate user profile data based on a set of user preferences related to the video content and or a set of behavioral data. The user profile data for example can be from a user profile of a user that is generated. The user profile data can include login information a user name user personal data authentication data media source preferences media content preferences time preferences for video content media sources date preferences for video content media sources and or the like user preferences. The user preferences can further include a time preference to associate with the media content or video content and other classification criteria such as a personalized channel selection a theme preference for types of media content e.g. Science Fiction Drama etc. a rating preference e.g. G rated films five start films etc. an actor preference a language preference e.g. Spanish Russian English etc. and or a date preference e.g. release date viewing dates broadcast dates pertaining to the personalized channel for configuring and or identified media sources for content via the source component at one or more user defined scheduled times. The user profile data configured by the profiling component can further include classification criteria that include at least one of a theme an age range a media content rating an actor or actress a title and the like metadata for identifying content communicating media sources identified and or identifying updated media content of a media source and or particular broadcast upload data store feed stream.

In one embodiment the user profile data generated by the profiling component further comprises behavioral data that includes search data viewing data purchasing data communicated data each relating to ways the user of the user profile has interacted with video content as well as other user input controls related to video content e.g. storage viewing times fast forwarding skipping replaying search terms and other input controls as related to video content . For example if evidence of Minoan civilization in Northeast Michigan 5000 B.C. is searched the computing device utilizes the components therein to define various videos related to this search data to establish media sources having similar or related content and provide configurable options to the user for generating a personalized dynamic channel for viewing on the display component e.g. a display screen display device etc. on client device at various times that correspond with a newly broadcast programming purchased programming rented programming web updated programming subscription service programming recorded programming stored and or the like. For example future viewing options can be communicated along with other metadata pertaining to the media content searched and the future viewing options can be programmed to view via the personalized channel at the same time as the future scheduled viewing and or stored for viewing at a another defined time. Therefore a search engine not shown of the computing device for video content of interest can be monitored or in communication with the profiling component in order to dynamically present scheduling options broadcast options and or media content source options for a user to configure the channel . The search engine can be any search engine of a network e.g. internet network and or a search engine provided in a browser now shown of the computing device and or client component s display component .

The user can select to view configure purchase subscribe and communicate any one of these content options on the channel to the display component of the system as well as to other mobile devices of subscribing friends to the user s configured channel. The criteria for presenting options to configure the channel can be further based on the user preferences. Although a user is not intending to search for video content the configurable personalized channel and the computing device can further operate in an operating background to ascertain user interest and user behavior along with set preferences to provide catered options for viewing when the user is ready to interact with video format or in other words operate television viewing for him herself.

The user can select to view configure purchase subscribe and communicate any one of these content options on the channel to a client display component of the system as well as to other mobile devices of subscribing friends to the user s configured channel. The criteria for presenting options to configure the channel can be further limited based on the user preferences. Although a user is not intending to search for video content the configurable personalized channel and the computing device can further operate in an operating background to ascertain user interest and user behavior along with set preferences to provide catered options for viewing when the user is ready to interact with video format or in other words operate television viewing for him herself.

The behavioral data or user profile data can further include age data household membership data and or subscription data. The age data can comprise the age range of the user corresponding to the user profile which can be used to ascertain a profile of age interest based on other population samples of similar age and or generational preferences for dynamically interacting with the user for providing options to configure the personalized channel viewing experience. Household membership data can include other members of the user s household or immediate family which can be used to configure other channels for their viewing as appropriate. The subscription data can be the various online or offline subscriptions that a user patronizes. For example magazine subscriptions cable subscriptions video subscriptions e.g. movie rental online or offline such as internet subscriptions to streaming or by mail DVD content video subscription sites web feeds e.g. social network news feeds and the like can be identified and accessed as video content options and media sources for assigning to the channel at defined times for defined content and the like. For example if the user defined Friday night as watching one set of video content on the channel from one media sources at a certain time another video content from another media sources could be subsequently viewed automatically via the channel . The content can be set to be communicated via the channel from various sources that offer different content. The content can be monitored for updated content in which the user can be notified of and then select any number of options to configure the channel .

In addition the behavioral data can include viewing information that rates a user s interest level in a video feed from one or more of the media sources. For example the personalized viewing channel can comprise a set of controls for operating the video content in which the controls can be communicated to the display component . Based on the controls selected during viewing the computing device can further ascertain user interest in the video content and make further recommendations of video content accordingly. For example the controls can include directional controls rewind forward to return to a previous segment or fast forward to a next one or a different program and or a different media source up and down for changing different channels and or different media sources depending upon the personalized configuration of the channel .

The profiling component further operates to aggregate profiles or log in access to a set of social networks video subscription services online and or other video distribution services and provides an access key for aggregating videos or media content via the source component . The user can connect his user profile to multiple services for video and provide the viewing over an assigned channel that is configured. Additionally the profiling component can import RSS subscriptions to the profile in which the system can operate to import video content add video content and updated content and information into the selected personalized channel .

The control component is configured to generate a set of viewing controls associated with the user profile data that control transmission of the video content via the personalized video channel . The set of viewing controls generated by the control component can comprise a timed duration control to define a timed duration for receiving the video content via the personalized video channel an interactive mechanic control to define an interactive mechanic that interacts with at least one client device while receiving the video content via the personalized video channel and a monitoring control to monitor a viewing of the personalized video channel for example. Additionally the control component can generate an authentication control for employing user authorization and authentication based on the user profile data and or sub profile data of the user profile data that corresponds to another client or user and or an additional client viewing device e.g. a child s viewing or child s viewing device .

For example the personalized video channel is controlled with the set of user viewing controls via the control component from a first mobile device to set a timed duration and or with other controls for receiving the video content at a second mobile device not shown or at the same device with display component which is further detailed below. A parent or authority owner associated with the user profile data of a client device display component can operate the control component to set a setting which can control a maximum time that personalized video channel operates or streams video to the user e.g. child subscriber or other of a client device for viewing. In response to the time interval timed duration expiring the control component can operate to switch the personalized video channel to a standby mode or off in which no content consumption is enabled with a text message and optional voice message explaining to the user viewer that the time limit is expired or will expire.

The control component can also operate to set authorization and or authentication controls that are associated with the user profile data e.g. login data a secure phrase pin number challenged response inherence factor biometric print retinal scan etc. and or a two factor authentication . For example a parent corresponding to the user profile data can enter a 4 digit pin code along with the required time interval for setting a timed duration of viewing associated with one or more other user user device s . The parent could also be enabled to cancel the time interval by accessing the setting controls via entering or enacting the same security e.g. pin code or other security protocol comprising a one or more combinations of the user profile data and security examples above.

In addition other controls of the control component can be activated or set. For example a user of the system can avoid some particular content associated with a parental rating a time period in a day genre and or from other classification criteria for being viewed such as from their children. The controls can become available for parents or a user with a user generated pin code for example. When this option becomes active all such content or any content in a particular time period can require the pin code in order to be watched.

Another control that can be implemented via the control component is a remote control or monitoring that can post message and or enable viewing of information about the video content and or media source being watched. A notification can be provided via an electronic message e.g. a text email and or stored in the user s profile data to self care pages of user profile data for a user account.

Parents being away from the display component or viewing client device can enter their user profile data to access their personalized video channel remotely and see what video content is being watched right now by the users client device of the sub profile data and from which device. The personal video channel can be controlled via the control component and can be forced to stop playback and enter a standby mode in which no video content is communicated.

The streaming component is configured to communicate the video content from the plurality of media sources to the display component e.g. a display panel a display device mobile smart device personal computing device personal digital assistance mobile device processor device etc. based on the demographic data and user profile data generated by the computing device . The streaming component is further configured to communicate the video content from different media sources of a plurality of media sources at different times based on the user profile. Further the streaming component can operate to communicate different video content from different media sources at the same time at different personalized channels and or at the same channel for interacting with one type of content and viewing another such as video chat with various client devices while viewing the video content from media sources at the same time.

In another embodiment the computing device operates to stream video content via the streaming component from various media sources at prescheduled timing via dayparting with demographic data and based on the user controls of the control component as well as the user profile data with video content of media sources. The media sources can comprise at least two of a broadcast wired wireless power line carrier signal optical link web feed web link a network personal video library and or the like. The user can set the content times and media sources with user preferences and control the communication of the content through the personalized video channel s . The computing device can operate to recommend or suggest configurations video content scheduling media source options as selectable user viewing options based on the user preferences and or behavioral data about the user that is learned from the system as part of the user profile data. In one example cartoons from a video distribution site can be programmed for one time period and news video of a selected topic can be generated from different media sources at another time period e.g. cnn videos msn videos etc. found to relate to sinkholes occurring in Florida . Additionally other criteria or classifications can be programmed along with video content and various media sources in particular for different time slots based on the user s interest.

Referring to illustrated is an example system for generating personal media viewing in accordance with various embodiments described herein. The system operates to obtain media content from media sources such as from social networks online news data feed video services and other web pages sites and further aggregates the media sources into a personalized video viewing channel based on user profile data as well as a set of controls for regulating the personalized video channel . The personalized video viewing channel operates as a configurable user video channel that can be configured by the computer device to provide programming e.g. video content or other media content as a series of personally scheduled content from various media sources that broadcast post feed update upload etc. programming for general viewing and or subscribed viewing. The personalized video channel can be configured based on user profile data identified by a user having corresponding user profile data and or a user profile data account via the client component for example. The personalized video channel can be configured for particular programming video content and or media sources to be communicated based on user preferences user controls and or behavioral data learned that represents user inputs data related to the video content e.g. purchasing video content titles viewed titles searched content skipped or selected content shared etc. . The personalized video channel can then operate to be subscribed to viewed at certain times and or freely available to other client devices such as the client components in which the client component can control through user controls generated by the control component .

The system can operate to communicate via one or more communication lines via a network e.g. cloud network local area network wide area network and the like a wired connection and or a wireless connection with similar components in which the control component can comprises a duration component an interaction component a monitoring component and a notification component . Although the control component is illustrated as housing the duration component the interaction component the monitoring component and the notification component these components can be communicatively coupled within the system as external and or internal components in the network the computing device and or the client component s and or .

The control component operates to generate various user controls for operation and management of one or more personalized video channels to one or more client components . The control component for example can operate as a parental control mechanism and or as a configurable control mechanism for any secondary subscriber or user permitted by the primary user corresponding to the user profile data. For example a user could configure a personalized video channel based on a variety of likes and dislikes for video content such as from media sources of online movies personal video stores broadcast networking web cast web feeds video content distribution sites and the like.

While one person could configured a video channel to distribute video content from a variety of media sources into one channel one particular way another user could do so another way via another channel based on user profile data in which each user or primary user that is associated with and generates the user profile data which embodies any sub profiles therein for other user s or user devices and authorizes user controls. The controls generated by the control component can thus operate to enable each user with a sub profile data or sub profile data account as part of the user profile data to configure a personalized channel with settings that enable one or more other user s full access limited access and or no access to receive and be a part of the viewing audience of a particular configurable personalized video channel such as the personalized video channel for example.

In one embodiment a duration component is configured to generate a duration control to the personalized video channel for example that sets a timed duration for a second client device to receive the video content of the plurality of media sources. In addition or alternatively the duration component could be set to a same client device but for a different user e.g. a child and or set for differing times for different configurations of video content and media sources being communicated in which multiple users can utilize the channel from one device such as a family television for example or family smart phone. A host or plurality of devices e.g. client component can also subscribe to the same personalized video channel as configured and controlled by the primary user e.g. client component in which one user set of user profile data manages the account or in other words is accounts for security configuration and controls of the personalized video channel .

The duration component is further configured to associate the timed duration to the personalized video channel by the primary user or client component for the second client device or based on a set of sub profile data of the user profile data. One or more sub profile data sets or sets of subset user profile data can be associated with various different users subscriber recipients of video content media sources via the personalized video channel . Various users can be associated with sub profiles as part of a user profile data for a particular primary user user device that creates the channel from selected content options scheduling options and user controls inputs. Various purposes can be achieved in which user controls the channel including child viewing monitoring as well as artistic forms of expression of interest user publishing for real time companionship with others remotely for shared viewing and the like to be controlled.

For example a family could receive the ability to configure a personalized video channel for a home to regulate and monitor use of the personalized video channel in which children are controlled and monitored via the user controls among various devices or sub profile data. The personalized video channel can be published and enabled via a social network to be configured with multiple various media sources as they are dynamically identified by the source component across a network airways a wired connection e.g. power line connections cable connections and the like webcast web feeds subscription services etc. and then enable the channel to be published so that other viewers users can receive requests and accept request for other viewers to view the same configured video content from various media sources at the same times as the primary user has scheduled. The system thus operates to set a duration limit or a viewing time duration in one example so that the viewing of the personalized channel is cut off stopped and or put on stand by to any one particular user time slot of a day date and or of a user device tuning into the personalized video channel of the user.

The interaction component is configured to interact with a client device viewing the personalized video channel by an interactive mechanic that generates at least one of a voice a video character or image a text and or a phrase via the personalized video channel. For example the profiling component obtains user profile data to configure the control component which receives a user preference for generating a character such as a cartoon character a virtual character as a graphic simulation of the parent or the user an avatar and or some other embodied interface agent that can be communicated via the personalized video channel to one or more viewing client devices.

The interaction component generates a notification of the timed duration set by the duration component to one or more client devices via the personalized video channel such as from a programmed setting notification with the interactive mechanic from one device to another second device at a viewing time for the second device at scheduled times on the same device and or via viewing times of the personalized viewing channel that are authorized through a sub profile account of the user profile data. The interactive mechanic generated by the interactive component can be set based on one or more virtual character characteristics and one or more criteria for interacting graphically via the personalized viewing channel . For example the interactive mechanic can be governed or generated according to criteria that include at least one of a video game that generates an interaction with the client device a video image character that generates at least one of the voice a video image and or a text via the personalized video channel as well as a symbol.

In one example the interactive component generated can be configured to provide an indication that the timed duration is at an ending time for viewing via the personalized video channel. Therefore if the timed duration is set for two hours each day under a child s sub profile data then before the two hours is over an avatar or graphical rendition of the parent cartoon character and or other image can be displayed alongside overlaying and or as a part of a viewing screen in order to communicate that the timed duration will be ending and along with any other additional message that has been set such as and you are also reminded to kiss your lovely mother goodnight. The interactive mechanic of the interaction component can also request an interaction from the viewer of the channel such as to press a remote control button speak press a touch screen of the display component of the client component for example or some other acknowledgement that the message has been received by the viewer e.g. the child . As another example Mickey Mouse could appear on the screen of the user device to speak that this will be all boys and girls the viewing time is over and the personalized video channel is shutting down. Subsequently the control component can operate to block any further viewing content and enter in stand by mode sleep mode and or some other viewing mode to prevent the user device the user and or the streaming of content for the sub profile account and or the particular device. As discussed above the set of sub profile data can comprise at least a part of the user preferences including at least one of a viewing time an interactive mechanic preference e.g. avatar flashing text phrase etc. a set of blocked media sources and or a set of blocked video content for the a particular client device.

The monitoring component is configured to enable a client device such as client device to access the personalized video channel at a same time as a second client device such as device is accessing the personalized video channel . The monitoring component is further configured to initiate the streaming component to communicate the video content to the first client device and the second client device so that two device can view the same content simultaneously. In addition or alternatively the monitoring component can record video content and or metadata related to the video content being viewed by one or more user devices.

For example one user device or user associated with a sub profile data could view cartoons broadcasted locally while another device could be viewing news. Rather than recording each show or providing a simultaneous viewing of each show the monitoring device could record video content titles other data and or data about the media source for different times that the personalized channel is being viewed. While the same content is streamed at the same time different content can be viewed at different times by different devices in situations with multiple children in a home and or various subscribers recipient users tuning into content from the personalized channel. For example an aunt uncle or other relative could view the channel of family videos at one time and tune in at another for viewing news feed update data from a selected media source identified and scheduled for another particular time that is controlled by a duration time notifications blocked content and or further monitoring control.

The notification component is configured to communicate a notification for example that indicates in a notification message at least one of a viewing duration metadata pertaining to the video content communicated via the personalized video channel the video content and or a media source of the video content and or metadata of the media source which can be in association with a set of sub profile data of the user profile data for a second device or a corresponding user authorization with the set of sub profile data.

For example the notification component operates to generate a notification of a user device or sub profile account of a child by generating an email text or other message to contact information of the user profile data. The notification can include a title of a video content metadata related to video content viewed and information about the media source being accessed and or scheduled via the personalized video channel .

Referring to illustrated is a system for having parental controls or primary user controls in accordance with various embodiments described herein. The computing device of the system includes an authorization component that authorizes the primary user such as client component to implement configurations of video content media sources and controls for the channel via the control component . The computing device further comprises a blocking component and a scheduling component .

The authorization component operates to provide access to the set of viewing controls and the user profile data. The set of viewing controls comprise a timed duration control to define a timed duration an interactive mechanic control to define an interactive mechanic to interact with a second user other than the primary user or second user device and or a monitoring control to monitor a viewing of the personalized video channel. As discussed above the set of viewing controls can include a sub set of the user profile data associated with second user profile data and or the second user device. The user profile data further includes a set of behavioral data representing user control inputs related to the video content that includes at least one of purchasing date viewing data search data purchase data location data language data age data household membership data and or subscription data for other subscription video services associated with the user profile data.

In one example the authorization component can provide security to the user controls of the control component and for configuration of the channel such as what video content is communication from what media sources at what times for timed durations associated with a sub profile data or other user device for viewing video content interaction settings for an interactive mechanic to interact with a viewer blocking content media sources and generating monitoring security of the personalized video channel for the primary user of the user profile data overall.

For example a parent can set timed durations by entering a pin to access settings for timed durations. The security implemented by the authorization component can include a two factor authorization a security question a security number or pin and the like. The authorization component operates to set authorization and or authentication controls e.g. timed duration control monitoring controls blocking content notification interactive mechanic settings etc. that are associated with the user profile data e.g. login data a secure phrase pin number challenged response inherence factor biometric print retinal scan etc. and or a two factor authentication . For example a parent corresponding to the user profile data can enter a 4 digit pin code along with the required time interval for setting a timed duration of viewing associated with one or more other user user device s as well as for the other controls of the channel . The parent could also be enabled to cancel the time interval by accessing the setting controls via entering or enacting the same security e.g. pin code or other security protocol of the authorization component comprising a one or more combinations of the user profile data and security examples above.

Various video content sources can be identified via the source component utilizing a user profile user profile data generated by the profiling profile component . The profiling component is configured to generate user profile data based on a set of user preferences related to the video content and or a set of behavioral data. The user profile data for example can be from a user profile of a user that is generated. The user profile data can include login information a user name user personal data authentication data media source preferences media content preferences time preferences for video content media sources date preferences for video content media sources and or the like user preferences in which access is enabled via the authentication component . The user preferences can further include a time preference to associate with the media content or video content and other classification criteria such as a personalized channel selection a theme preference for types of media content e.g. Science Fiction Drama etc. a rating preference e.g. G rated films five start films etc. an actor preference a language preference e.g. Spanish Russian English etc. and or a date preference e.g. release date viewing dates broadcast dates pertaining to the personalized channel for configuring and or identified media sources for content via the source component at one or more user defined scheduled times. The user profile data configured by the profiling component can further include classification criteria that include at least one of a theme an age range a media content rating an actor or actress a title and the like metadata for identifying content communicating media sources identified and or identifying updated media content of a media source and or particular broadcast upload data store feed stream.

The blocking component is configured to a blocking component configured to block at least a part of the video content from the plurality of media sources based on at least one classification criterion comprising a title a media source a timed duration a rating a time a date or a genre. For example the blocking component can configure the personalized video channel to stream only cartoons and to block other content media sources that could be identified from other sources such as adult rated content or other content that is not suitable for a child. In another example a personalized video library having personalized video content as identified by the source component could be blocked form being published. For times in which personal video content is scheduled for the channel to stream this content could be blocked to all user s except family therefore the channel could operate on stand by mode or some other sleep mode and not be streamed to a particular device and or a particular sub profile data that is part of the user profile data overall.

Some of the time slots for the personal video channel for example could be left open for selection at the time of viewing and thus not be pre scheduled while other time slots are scheduled. Therefore video content media sources can be blocked by the blocking component for the specified time slots. For example mornings could have various video content as being blocked for children to view the channel with some freedom of selection from among video content and sources but on a limited basis so that adult rated content is not able to be accessed or some other classification of video such as by title genre language rating etc.

In another embodiment the scheduling component is configured to generate a schedule of video content from the plurality of media sources via the personalized video channel based on the set of user preferences and the set of viewing controls and to configure the personalized video channel to communicate the video content from the plurality of media sources according to the schedule of video content. The scheduling component thus controls timing aspects of the personalized channel based on the user profile and control settings generated by the control component for the personalized channel . For example a popular reality show from a web page and or broadcast could be communicated via the personalized channel at a specific time and consecutively follow up with a Facebook news feed of friends via the same channel. As such content from different media sources can be scheduled at predetermined times that are different from the pre scheduled programming times of the media source in which it originated or from updated times.

For example video content from a first media source of a first time can be rendered to the display component at a user defined time and video content from a second media source at a second time can then follow and or be scheduled for other times. This can enable the primary user to have dynamic video content from multiple different media sources at user defined scheduled times and interact dynamically via the user profile with updated content viewing options and or present newly participating or discovered media sources for video content to be communicated from as selections for being rendered to be followed for updates and or for portioning into partitions for viewing as segments.

In another embodiment the scheduling component can operate to schedule portions of programming based on the user profile. For example a certain topic of interest could be classified by the user preferences to predominate the selected personalized channel at a particular time such as content pertaining to a local disaster or pending disaster as well as any other topic. Other aspects of the user profile can also be used as the portioning criteria such as age category audience rating user interest behavioral data representing user input controls related to video content viewing fast forwarding skipping purchasing searching as search criteria etc. as input actions. Segments or portions of subsets of videos or programming related to a local event can be extracted or spliced at transitions points e.g. points between news stories within an hourly news broadcast or some other interval scheduled broadcast to provide programming related only to the specific topic. The channel can be dynamic in real time or in other words based on programming from media sources at the present time and or encompass programming that has already occurred within a certain defined time and has been recorded or stored in a data store. The programming recorded stored can then be introduced among options for communication viewing via the personalized channel as user defined times rather than broadcast and or updated times.

Additionally the programming of scheduled video content and or updated content can be performed via the channel as selections by the user. New updated content from the plurality of media sources can be presented first while older content can follow in an order of relevance of a listing. The scheduling component can then receive selection for one or more of these and scheduling options e.g. times dates store scrap etc. for rendering via the channel . For example a user could desire to have history rendered via the channel on Saturday nights with video content that is from other times and or at the programmed times and then have a news feed from a different channel aired at a different previous time or in real time after the history programming. Times dates and the channel can be programmed based on the user profile data for any number of channels media sources video content content options and or portions of content to be rendered via the channel .

RSS feeds and or feeds as discussed herein can comprises a group of web feed formats used to publish frequently updated works such as blog entries news headlines audio and video in a standardized format. An RSS document which is called a feed web feed or channel includes full or summarized text plus metadata such as publishing dates and authorship which can be used to identify communicate obtain and or render video content associated with the feed. RSS feeds or feeds for example can benefit publishers by enabling them to syndicate content automatically. For example an XML file format allows the information to be published once and viewed by many different programs. They benefit readers who want to subscribe to timely updates from favorite websites or to aggregate feeds from many sites into one place.

RSS feeds can be read using software called an RSS reader feed reader or aggregator which can be web based desktop based or mobile device based. The user subscribes to a feed by entering into the reader the feed s URI and or by clicking a feed icon in a web browser that initiates the subscription process. In one embodiment the source component can at least partially operate as an RSS reader that checks the user s subscribed feeds regularly based on the profile data generated via the profiling component for any updates that it finds and provides a user interface to monitor and read the feeds. The computing system further operates to identify and updated broadcasted data subscription sites without RSS feeds but that provide video rental channel episodes programming and the like based on a regular or periodic subscription service. The computing device operates therefore to avoid manually inspecting all of the websites channels as well as social sites e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. and subscription services for download such that new content is automatically checked for and advertised by their browsers as soon as it is available.

Referring to illustrated is a system for one or more personalized video channels in accordance with various embodiments described in this disclosure. The system includes the computing device with the components discussed above. The computing device further includes a publishing component a rating component a chat component a channel configuration component a modification component a programming component a genre component a prediction component a demographic component a recommendation component and a social group component .

The computing device is operable to publish components via the publishing component to from and or via the network for implementation of the operations of the computing device at one or more client components or mobile devices. The publishing component can further operate to publish personalized configuration channel s for subscription to or viewing by other mobile devices other than the mobile device authorized for configuring the channel or the same device at scheduled times and identified media source s .

The publishing component can operate to control what mobile devices networks and or web feeds are provided content via the personalized video channel for example. The video content could be generated for example from a personal data store of family videos as well as from various other broadcasting media web pages web feeds and the like media sources. The video content could then be published to a social network for friends and family and or for one or more viewing devices for friends and family connected to a mobile device via the network for viewing content associated with the particular mobile device s user preferences. Videos of family grandchildren etc. could then be followed up with and or subscribed to at various predetermined times. Consequently grandparents could follow the growth of grandchildren and events published via the family personal channel before calling each week to their children while also watching similar content via the same personalized channel for sake of conversation or further interest.

In one embodiment a user via the mobile device is operable to configure the channel as having a first set of video content from a first set of media sources e.g. set of MTV videos Facebook news feeds chat video conference screen the Grammy awards etc. and the communication channel via a second different set of video content from different media sources by setting the content and or managing the user profile data for settings classifications classification criteria and or behavioral data representing user input controls related to video input as well as thru controls generated by the control component . The user profile data could be entered or learned to provide the Grammy awards for example via the personalized channel at the same time as to mobile device for viewing on and thus while illustrates a different channel that is configured for viewing to the mobile device the channel could alternatively or additionally be shared to both devices .

The publishing component is operable to publish a channel such as the personalized channel or for any connected viewer or one authenticated by the user profile data or from a sub profile data subset of associated profile data of the user profile data for access. For example a request could be received by one viewer or one mobile device to another for accessing a personalized channel that is configured by the mobile device that is in control of personalizing or configuring the particular personalized channel. The publishing component operates to communicate to the requesting mobile device the personalized channel e.g. channel upon acceptance of the request by the configuring primary user mobile device e.g. mobile device . One or more devices are able to access a personalized channel with personalized content and from a selected media source at any given time while also utilizing resources to share the personalized experience such as with video chat chat component searching capabilities suggestions rating personal content viewing and or personal commercial marketing intermittently with configured programming from different media sources and or personal video content at the data store s .

In one example the personalized channel can be configured by both the mobile device with programming from one wired broadcast and of another wireless broadcast thereafter and regardless of the different media sources and their sequential video content via the personal video channel family videos in a data store of the mobile device could be streamed intermittently and or other video content from a personal data base in communication with the mobile device . In another embodiment control of the personalized channel and the configuration of the channel can be dynamic and be altered by the user profile data of the mobile device that is configuring the personal communication channel such as with a password or other security. The mobile device could alter the viewing of the Grammy Awards via the channel therefore to provide content from MTV videos playing different content either at different times intermittently and or at sequential times before and or following the Grammy Awards. For example while two devices as examples of the display components or client components herein are viewing the Grammy Awards the mobile device could alter the media source and or viewing content to demonstrate supplement or change the main viewing to other video content. Both mobile devices could decide together that one type of video content is undesirable e.g. boring so a chat screen could be published via the publishing component and utilized to indicate the desire to switch to another on the personalized channel . The mobile device in control of the configuration could opt to draw from an online video rental other broadcast channel a Facebook feed etc. in which the two mobile devices would more enjoy with one another and on different mobile devices.

The rating component is configured to receive a rating to associate with the video content or a media source which the prediction component can utilize to further predict video content media sources to communicate via one or more personalized video channels. For example a mobile device that receives predicted content via the personalized video channel could provide a like or dislike to the particular video content media source transmitted. The rating could also be a one to five star rating a scaled rating on a measure of one to ten or some other rating measure. The rating component can store the rating for the prediction component and or recommendation components to assess together with user profile data comprising user preferences and user behavioral data learned in order to provide increasingly more relevant video content recommendations and predicted scheduling content based on a user s taste and interest determined through the mobile device and or other data stores.

The chat component is configured to communicate a chat screen via the personalized video channel to at least two mobile devices receiving the video content from the plurality of media sources via the personalized video channel. The chat screen from the chat component can comprise a video chat screen for generating a video chat session and or a text dialogue that communicates via the personalized channel and or for example during before and or after viewing video content with one or more other mobile devices such as with the mobile devices and .

The channel configuration component is configured to modify the personalized video channel and or to communicate the video content based on the predicted video content and or on the set of user preferences of the user profile data. The channel configuration component enables a plurality of channels to be configured and further communicate personalized video content from a plurality of media sources to one or more mobile devices and or . A set of user profile data can be assigned to the respective channels and or independently so that the channels can be configured based on respective sets of user profile data e.g. user preferences and or behavioral data . For example a channel can be configured to communicate a first set of media sources with a first set of video content at different times and or video content portions from at least two of the channels and another channel could be configured to communicate a second different set of video content and or video content portions. Further both channels and or could be configured based on the same set of user profile data in which the channel can be configured from one set of media sources to communicate cartoons from a first broadcast station and subsequently programming from another broadcast station while the other channel be configured to provide content from different media sources at the same time. Thus the same user profile could enable a single household to access various programming configured to different channels from different mobile devices as well as access one or the other channel from the same mobile device in situations where interest could change depending on a user s mood. In addition or alternatively both channels and or could be communicated to the same device or in which video content could be displayed alongside in front of or behind the other video content streaming in different view panes.

The modification component is configured to modify the video content the plurality of media sources and or a scheduled time for communicating the video content and or media source s in response to a user input selection. The modification component can modify one or more of the configuration channels and or media source s . For example the modification component can operate to change from one personalized channel to another personalized channel for a particular mobile device for example. The channel could be controlled via user profile data from the mobile device and or a different mobile device such as mobile device in which the mobile device receives authorization to receive content via the personalized communication channel .

The modification component can operate to alter content at a given time through a selection input or other input control received via a user device such as mobile device and or . For example a media source could be changed from a play list of options via a user selection. The modification component can operate to control the prediction grid of the prediction grid component by modifying settings for display of the grid. For example the prediction grid could show a history of predicted content for a particular time whether past present and or future along the time line or time axis based on predicted content for the time. Alternatively or additionally the modification component can modify the basis for providing predicted content as dependent upon current recommendations in order to demonstrate viewing trends by which the system can further predict viewing content at particular times dates for various media sources and video content programming from the media sources.

Additionally or alternatively the modification component can modify the number or the amount of different video content that is provided to a mobile device via the personalized channel . For example a video could be communicated from a broadcast that is either being aired at a broadcast scheduled time an additional chat screen could be generated for discussing video content and or video screen for video communicating with one or more other mobile devices at the same time. In addition the number of screens for viewing content from different media sources could be modified in order to dynamically search for other video content and sources while viewing other video content and media sources.

The modification component can also operate to configure a media source preference a time preference to associate with the video content a personalized channel selection a theme preference a rating preference an actor preference a language preference a date preference past viewing configurations and or other preferences to the video content and media sources that the video content is derived from. For example as a user continues to watch a particular series at a particular time either broadcasted from a station as the source or streamed from an online site or feed the system can alter a preference for the episodes series source to be associated with the particular times. The modification component can dynamically interact with a user via the mobile device for determining preferences inquiring further about preferences at times and or modifying the set of behavioral data from user inputs related to different video content. For example when an episode from a broadcast is not programmed at the usual time due to alternative programming other predicted programming could replace it while the system inquires further or indicates as such to the user for further override or input via behavioral data and or preference selections .

Based on available open sources data and published listings such as published TV listings analytics statistics of content popularity based on time events and or metadata related to other video content an average timetable by genre can be is established by a programming component from demographics and or media sources that are able to be identified by the source component . The available video content and media sources can for example vary depending upon location access subscription services that a mobile device has access to as well as web feed subscriptions social networks memberships to video content and the like over a network or other connection e.g. satellite optic cable etc. . The programming component for example is configured to identify scheduling data corresponding to at least part of the video content from media information sources and further communicate external data from open sources and or from metadata associated with any video content identified from media sources to the scheduling component for generation of the programming schedule for configuring the personalized video channel which is or can be considered the personalized channels configuration schedule for generation video content at associated times dates and corresponding media source therefor. The scheduling component for example is further configured to generate the programming schedule or play list that is further based at least partially on the scheduling data corresponding to the at least part of the video content from the programming component . The media information sources can comprise the plurality of media sources an additional media source that generates open source data for at least one wireless broadcast channel the wired broadcast channel and or one of the media sources from which video content originates.

The genre component can operate with the programming component and other components of the system to generate classifications of the video content from the plurality of media sources based on a plurality of genres. The genre component operates to identify the video content from media sources according to a classification such as a genre. Other classifications could also be generated rather than just genre types and the associated video content related to the different genres such as a time period e.g. s movies an audience rating late night morning showing documentary reality science fiction language nationality race origin and the like. The scheduling component is further configured to generate the programming schedule further based on the classifications identified by the genre component and according to a dayparting scheme in which some times are provided with particular classifications of content. The genre component can operate for dayparting with the scheduling component . The computing device can configure a personalized video channel based on a dayparting scheme comprising a list of defined times for particular classification to be associated with the times dates and therefore configure the personalized video channel with video content from media sources generating the particular associated classification. In addition or alternatively particular video content selections from the different media sources could be designated and or predicted to be shown by the system where no designation is made or where a media sources is assigned but not particular video content is designated.

As time goes by system operates to continuously collect information of playback and rejections by each user including event timestamps and based on such data starts building individual predictions via the prediction component based on content type and dayparts. In one embodiment predictions of content are made which can include past present and future predictions via a prediction component . The predicted video content can include current scheduled content configured based on the best or most relevant predicted content and other closely related content can be provided as future predicted content. In addition or alternatively a personalized list of recommendations could also be provided or communicated via the personalized channel for example. The end result of the system is a personalized list of recommendations of content different for each user depending on the time of day day of week time of year of using the system by the user. It is to a new user relevant to time of viewing of content by all users of the system or to established user relevant to time of viewing of content specific to that user.

The system also is configured to operate as a predication system and to predict not only what each user via a user device likes to watch or listen to overall but what he wants to watch or listen to at a particular weekday daytime around event date i.e. Christmas Wedding anniversary etc. Thus after the system collects sufficient information about user habits it would be able to make such predictions. But before sufficient information is available there is a problem of cold start which a demographic component provides solution and further supplements operation of the system. The same solution is serving the purpose of a starting point and a template to be adjusted towards each user individual timetable grid.

Initially each user is assigned to demographic group based on known and guessed information. Later demographics are playing less important role in individual recommendations for each user but it is still important to establish averages for forming recommendation for new users assigned to the same demographics group. Next based on available open sources data i.e. published TV listings analytics statistics of content popularity based on time events etc. an average timetable by genre is established based on user demographics. Next all available content is filtered by genre. Each genre is associated with its appropriate daypart. As time goes by system collects information of playback and rejections by each user including event timestamps and based on such data starts building individual recommendations based on content type and dayparts in which dayparting herein is intended to refer to the practice of dividing a day into several parts for different programming depending upon the time the day and the date. The result of the system is a dynamic personalized channel configuration that can include a personalized list of recommendations of content which can be different for each user depending on the time of day day of week time of year in conjunction with the video content and media sources identified. The system can operate to a new user relevant to the time of viewing of content by all users of the system or to an established user relevant to time of viewing of content specific to that user based on the associated user profile data and demographic data.

The streaming component is thus operable to communicate a sequence of the video content from the plurality of media sources as well as communicate various media content portions based on user profile data and the user controls. For example the streaming component is configured to communicate an updated video content selection e.g. a new episode a new video from an identified friend on a social network an updated of a social network news feed a broadcast content programming at a certain time title or other related criteria data as well as portions of each based on classification criteria and any partitions of the video content that is generated by the system . The display component such as a client component and or mobile device is configured to receive the communicated content via the channel and or and render the content to a display e.g. a touch screen panel display or the like . The streaming component can generate the updated video content associated with the updated video content selection in the display component via the personalized video channel in response to an updated video content selection input being received.

The prediction component operates to analyze user profile data aggregated by the profile component and to communicate video content via the personalized channel based on the predicted content. For example in situations where no scheduled viewing is configured to the personalized channel the prediction component can analyze store and communicate updated content via the personalized channel which depends on the user profile data and or demographic data for such predictions.

The prediction component is configured to generate a set of predicted video content from the plurality of media sources based on the user profile data. In one embodiment the video channel can be configured with predicted video content at times in which the channel is utilized for viewing but where no defined media source and or video content has been selected or configured for the scheduled time of the viewing. For example the user profile data could comprise information that a user of a mobile phone in primary control of the configuration of the channel views reality shows e.g. Pawn Stars Swamp People Gold Rush etc. at about or around the time the device is also scheduled for sleep mode or shut off. In a situation where the user views his her personalized channel even though the channel is not configured for a certain date or time the system could communicate learned likes and dislikes for the particular time and either communicate reality show options and or select a best option by which to stream video content via the channel to the user.

In one embodiment a mobile device could set user profile data to transmit video content via the personalized video channel according to a particular mood a particular interest a specific activity a genre a producing studio company an actor actress a language a country demographic and the like preference or classification. The prediction component analyzes sets of data that are assigned or associated to the personalized channel in which various sets of data could be assigned to different personalized channels of one or more different client components of different users. As such the user profile data is utilized by the prediction component to predict viewing likes dislikes scheduling media sources particular video content and the other video habits to program or configure the personalized channel for viewing.

The demographic component is configured to classify a user device in a demographic class based on demographic data. For example a demographic class can comprise a set of data pertaining to the client device s location physical address duration within a geographical radius e.g. more than fifty percent of time in an area code area zip code state residence and the like a general broadcast area cable provider region in which this data can further include and be a part of the demographic data. The demographic data can further comprise population statistics such as viewing statistics for a viewing region as defined by the demographic class such as by area code zip code city state boundaries cable provider area broadcast region regional district providence political region geographically defined region according to a geographic criteria for example an Appalachian region or the like.

Users often use client devices mobile devices etc. such as the computer device to search for appropriate desirable video content for the given moment by scanning stations in search of what they might like or changing to a specific channel if they are looking for a particular content. In other words typically users are watching different channels at the different time moment and have to make special efforts for finding what they like or rely on channel manager to guess his tastes. The demographic component for example can comprise demographic information and or retrieve via a communication link network site web feed cloud network service and the like a set of population viewing statistic data relative to the region as defined by the above criteria for the demographic class as the user device is identified to belong. For example in the southeast region of Tennessee a broadcast channel particular to outdoor activities such as hunting fishing and trapping is broadcast in a particular area close to North Carolina. Viewing statistics indicate a greater likelihood of people in the East Tennessee area to watch fishing and in the North Carolina section to watch the hunting and trapping portions more due to a number of factors. This is an example of one viewing statistic. However the demographic component further factors dayparting information for viewing statistics but conglomerates the data for a multiplicity of channels broadcasts locally regionally wirelessly wired broadcast identified web feeds news feeds social network feeds personal data stores site video subscriptions to one or more video rental purchasing sites channel webcasts video distribution sites and the like.

The recommendation component is configured to recommend the video content based on the user profile as well as recommend portions of video content and or further media sources upon which to derive video content for communication via one or more personalized channels . The recommendation component can operate to communicate a set of recommended media content media content portions i.e. segments of media video content based on a set of classification criteria matching audio content to search terms theme genre audience category language location actor actress personal video classification based on metadata and the like and or user preferences of the user profile from the profile component which can include past viewed content. For example the set of user preferences can include a selection of video content from media sources in which the recommended media content portions of the selection of video content can be identified.

The recommendation component operates to further narrow searching or identification of media content portions e.g. segments of at least one of scheduled programming video content video feeds social networking sites video subscriptions services and the like within media content and video content e.g. identified programming movies videos uploads etc. from the set of media sources . Because the volume of media content can be large from multiple different data stores sources with different broadcasting channels and or web pages the recommendation component can further focus the generation of video content and associated portion to a subset of recommended video content e.g. programming and or portions e.g. segments of programming such as news clips within a news broadcast and provide options via mobile devices and or to configure a personalized channel with other video content and or media sources other than predicted content and or other prescheduled configured content sources. In this way various types of refined preferences can be used for various types of objectives as they are modified and or entered into the user profile dynamically. For example specific cultural significances specialty significances educational objectives audience categories language preferences racial preferences religious preferences and the like can be used to generate portions of media from larger volumes of media content and from video content of various media sources which can be defined in addition to other more standard preferences such as a theme comedy romance drama etc. . A user not satisfied with previously programmed content for the channel either predicted and or previously configured can search content via the network in a search engine component not shown while being supplemented with recommendation options at the same time. Therefore the user can be presented with recommended content as identified by the system from identified media sources and also search results based on the search terms from the user s own search over particular specified other data stores.

The social group component is configured to receive a request from different mobile devices to communicate the video content from the plurality of media sources. For example the mobile device could communication request for joining subscribing accessing the personalized video channel that has been configured and controlled by the mobile device . The mobile device could then provide an acceptance that is for particular times full access and or reject the requested based on the control of the configured channel being associated with the user profile data of the mobile device . In this manner select groups of users and or mobile devices can access configured personalized video channels at certain times to be interactive with personal videos regardless of location and over a network for example. While a video chat occurs stored video can also be generate to recap events such as a baby s first steps a birthday etc. while also viewing scheduled content at particular times from different media sources based on the configurations user profile data and demographic data of the controlling device such as mobile device for the personalized video channel .

Referring now to illustrated is an example system in accordance with various embodiments disclosed. The system includes the computing device as discussed above with the source component and the profile component provided only for ease of discussion. The profile component is communicatively coupled to a user profile that comprises a set of behavioral data that represents user input controls relating to the video content and the media sources which are identified by the source component . The user profile further comprises a set of user preferences .

In one embodiment the set of behavioral data comprises purchased video content related to the user profile data viewed video content related to the user profile data stored video content related to the user profile data and or search criteria for video content related to the user profile data. For example a purchase of video content could be made with the computing device or via a different device in communication with the computing device . The purchase can be stored as part of user profile data. The computing device can utilize the purchase data along with other data learned in the user profile to recommend video content and or media sources that are identified by the source component. The user can then opt to select a time slot video content and or media source available through the recommendations provided. The personalized channel e.g. channel as discussed above generated by the computing device can be configured with the times content and source data according to the user s selection.

For example a documentary on dinosaurs could be identified from a broadcast channel station e.g. a public broadcast channel or the like and the personalized channel be configured to transmit or communicate the documentary at the time that it is being broadcast. At the same time a documentary similar to one that was purchased by the user could be configured to play after the dinosaur channel through a user selection of a selected content and or media source as well. As mentioned above the user preferences can also include viewed video content related to the user profile data stored video content related to the user profile data and or search criteria for video content related to the user profile data which can facilitate providing further recommendations a past history record as well as other information learned about the user s viewing habits and or for configuring identifying further video content and media sources for a particular channel to be personalized at scheduled times dates. The set of behavioral data can also include viewing data search data purchase data location data language data age data household membership data and or subscription data.

In addition the user preferences can comprise a media source preference and or a time date preference to associate with the video content for viewing on a channel e.g. channel configured according to a user preferences and or behavioral data related to video content. The user preferences can further include a personalized channel selection where multiple channels are configured based on a user s personal preferences or classification criteria such as a theme preference a rating preference an actor preference a language preference a date preference and the like.

In one embodiment the profile component is further configured to receive a first user preference of the set of user preferences from selections related to the video content and identify a second user preference based on the set of behavioral data. For example a personalized channel configured by the computing device for rendering different video content from different media sources at various times could recommend horror movies based on a theme preferences that a user has entered as the user begins to override the preference and select different themes at a particular time or date the system could further recommend similar video content from differing media sources for viewing at the same time or on similar dates e.g. weekly dates etc. . Thus a dynamic system identifies recommends and learns various user preferences and how they relate to one another in order to provide a dynamically configurable channel at the user s disposal.

In one embodiment the computing device is further configured to access at least one of the plurality of media sources based on the user profile data such as when the user is subscribed to an online video rental site a social network site that updates video content of friends associated with the user as well as other web page feed services. For example the user profile data can include access data to one or more web pages sites subscriptions services and or other external video providers. This content can be presented to be configured into the personalized channel for viewing at pre defined times or dates as well as be used for recommendations based on other user profile data.

The source component is further configured to identify updated video content from among video content that is different from the video content previously accessed or identified as potential candidates for the personalized channel. This computer device can thus communicate an updated video content selection of the updated video content to the display component and the display component is configured to generate the updated video content associated with the updated video content selection in the display component via the personalized video channel in response to an updated video content selection input being received.

In addition or alternatively the source component can identified new or updated media sources which could be identified from a more detailed search for media sources by the source component a new broadcast or web page site a new subscription accessed identified by the user profile data and or newly stored content in a data store or video library. A user selection could also be received for streaming via the personalized channel at particular times or dates that relates to which media source or update media source to render in a display or mobile device.

Referring to illustrated is an example of a system in accordance with various embodiments described herein. The computing device comprises components detailed above and further comprises a video quality component a channel modification component and a video control component .

The video quality component for example is configured to analyze the video content and or from the media sources to determine a set of video characteristics comprising at least one of bitrate frame rate frame size audio content formatting a title an actor or actress or metadata pertaining to the video content. The channel modification component can operate in conjunction with the video quality component to configure the quality of a personalized channel. The system can operate to compare duplicate video content and eliminate the duplicates that do not satisfy a predetermined threshold for quality and thus leave only the video content among the duplicated video content with the highest quality metrics or that is of a greater quality of service based on one of the set of video characteristics.

The channel modification component is further operable to change channels that are personalized from a first personalized channel that is based on one set of user profile data and to another personalized channel that is based on another set of user profile data. In one example the channel modification component can comprise a channel control as part of the channel control component . The channel control component can operate to alter the video content from the media sources by generating a forward rewind pause skip and other graphical controls for affecting video content generated on a single personalized channel such as channel . The channel control component can operate to change personalized channels which each can be configured according to a different set of user profile data or a different set of user preferences . In addition the video control component can generate selections for altering a media source and or a video content to be streamed over the single personalized channel for example.

In another embodiment the video control component can operate to control subscriptions to a personalized channel such as the personalized channel and or . For example the display component or mobile device comprising a display component can facilitate the configuration data for a personalized video channel. The display component or mobile device can thus subscribe in a request to the channel that is personalized by the user profile data from display component . Therefore two mobile devices can view the same content at the same time together and or separate at different times. In one example selections can be received via the display component of mobile device for configuring the personalized video channel for the display of mobile device . The selections can facilitate rendering of the video content from the media sources by receiving at least two selections such as a video content selection a media source selection a topic selection a duration selection a title selection a language selection and or a video play list selection a date selection or a recommendation selection.

Referring now to illustrated is another example system for communicating predicted video content aggregated from media sources via a single personalized video channel in accordance with various embodiments described. The computer device further comprises a partitioning component a serializer component a splicing component and a correlation component .

The partitioning component is configured to partition the video content from the plurality of media sources based on the user profile data user preferences and or behavioral data that represents user actions relating to video content . The partitioning component operates to partition the video content of one or more media sources into a plurality of video content portions segmented partitions of programming of videos uploaded on a web page or of other video content based on a defined set of criteria e.g. the classification criteria that comprises at least one of a topic an audio content a transition point in the video content a duration or time frame a match of the set of user preferences of the user profile data or the audio content of the video content being determined to match a word or phrase of a search term criterion or terms criteria of the defined set of criteria. The classification criteria can be part of the user profile data such as part of user preferences as a category for video classification preferences.

In one embodiment the partitioning component operates to partition video content into segments or subsets of the programmed content based on criteria defined as part of the user profile data. The portions or segments can be part of a video content as defined by a time frame an end time a title and or other defining or classifying criteria. For example a portion of video content can be a section segment or portion of a news broadcast in which a certain topic could be discussed relating to a hurricane in New Orleans while the entire news broadcast could be a designated hour long having multiple different segments related to different news topics or stories.

The streaming component is thus operable to communicate a sequence of the video content from the plurality of media sources as well as communicate various media content portions based on user profile data and from different media sources at different times. For example the streaming component is configured to communicate an updated video content selection e.g. a new episode a new video from an identified friend on a social network an updated of a social network news feed a broadcast content programming at a certain time title or other related criteria data as well as portions of each based on classification criteria and the partitions generated from the partitioning component . The personalized video channel can be configured to render the content to a display e.g. a touch screen panel display or the like and generate the updated video content associated with the updated video content selection in the display component in response to an updated video content selection input being received.

The serializer component is configured to concatenate the video content from the plurality of media sources into a set of video content sequences such as a sequence of scheduled programs video uploads new feeds and or video content portions of programs uploads feeds. For example the set of video content sequences can comprise a portion of the video content identified from a media source based on the user profile data as well as other video content from other media sources. Programming can be scheduled from scheduled content as published by the media sources and or dynamically generated based on video content identified from the plurality of media sources based on the user profile data such as with a video update on a social network newly added downloadable content from a video rental site video subscription service or other web page site.

The splicing component is configured to identify a portion or segment of a programming within the video content of a corresponding media source and extract the portion of the programming based on user profile data. The splicing component can operate as a separate component from the partitioning component and or as a complimentary component of the partitioning component . While the splicing component can operate to generate portions of video content segments or subsets of defined sets of video content the partitioning component can operate to generate the video content segments or otherwise known as video content video s from different media sources. Some media sources for example such as a social network site could provide data indicating that a video upload or updated video content has occurred for one or more friends within a user s network. These videos could corresponding to different full length videos which could range from a few minutes to hours or more in duration but have a defined beginning and ending point. However broadcast television programming could have continuous video streaming that could be recorded and communicated via the personalized video channels and or and or communicated at the time of broadcast. The partitioning component can operate to divide the different programming and video content identified among various channels such as channel and based on user profile data and or divide broadcast programming to different channels as well as for different times in which programming from one local broadcast could be streamed and then another local broadcast of a different station could be streamed thereafter without the user having to change a channel as in traditional methods.

The splicing component can generate portions of segmented video content or of full length content that is not continuously broadcasted. For example a new station could report broadcast and or upload a news hour broadcast. The different portions or stories could be dynamically spliced based on user profile data such as search data. The portions can be presented to the user dynamically as options and then played to the client component and or based on the user profile data and or selections to the options.

The correlation component is configured to correspond or correlate the set of predicted video content from the prediction component to the prediction grid generated by the prediction grid component a set of points in time along a time axis based on metadata associated with the video content e.g. title genre location producer media source etc. and identification of the media sources of the set of predicted video content for a selected point of the set of points. The prediction grid further includes the different predicted video content along the time line and a relevance line based on a correlation measure of the different predicted video content to the user profile data. For example where multiple options could have been presented in a prediction grid for a particular point in time based on the user profile data that is either current or particular to the selected point in time various options could have been generated as being closer to the user profile data than others. One content could have been recommended thus with a higher relevance or rank to the user profile data than another in which the correlation component can operate to determine the relevance and or the rank. The predicted video content can thus be corresponded to a set of points in time along a time axis based on metadata associated with the video content and identification of the media sources of the set of predicted video content for a selected point of the set of points.

While the methods described within this disclosure are illustrated in and described herein as a series of acts or events it will be appreciated that the illustrated ordering of such acts or events are not to be interpreted in a limiting sense. For example some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events apart from those illustrated and or described herein. In addition not all illustrated acts may be required to implement one or more aspects or embodiments of the description herein. Further one or more of the acts depicted herein may be carried out in one or more separate acts and or phases. Reference may be made to the figures described above for ease of description. However the methods are not limited to any particular embodiment or example provided within this disclosure and can be applied to any of the systems disclosed herein.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary system flow in accordance with various embodiments herein. At video content from a plurality of media sources is identified to communicate the video content from different media sources of the plurality of media sources at different times respectively via a personalized video channel. At user profile data is determined that comprises a set of user preferences for the video content and the plurality of media sources to be streamed via the personalized video channel. At a set of viewing controls associated with the user profile data is generated which control transmission of the video content via the personalized video channel. At the video content is streamed via the personalized video channel based on the user profile data and or on the user controls viewing controls of control component for example .

The method can further comprise generating a schedule by which to communicate the video content of the different media sources at the different times via the personalized video channel in which the media sources comprise at least two of a wireless broadcast media channel a web site a web data feed a wired broadcast channel or a video library. The personalized video channel is operable to be published as configured to a network for access by one or more authorized client devices to view the video content according to the set of viewing controls.

The method can further include providing access to the set of viewing controls and the user profile data. In one example the set of user controls or viewing controls comprise a timed duration control to define a timed duration for receiving the video content via the personalized video channel an interactive mechanic control to define an interactive mechanic that interacts with at least one client device while receiving the video content via the personalized video channel and a monitoring control to monitor a viewing of the personalized video channel.

The user controls or viewing controls can include generating an interactive mechanic e.g. a rendered graphic that interacts with a user or viewer of the personalized video channel. The interactive mechanic for example can comprise at least one of a video game or video component that generates an interaction with the client device viewing the video content via the personalized video channel a video image character that generates at least one of a voice a video image a text or a phrase via the personalized video channel to the client device or a symbol to provide an indication of the timed duration for viewing the video content via the personalized video channel.

Referring to illustrated is another example system flow for generating user controls e.g. parental controls viewing controls etc. in accordance with various embodiments disclosed. The method comprises identifying at video content from media sources comprising at least two of a wireless broadcast media channel a web site a web data feed a wired broadcast channel or a video library. At a set of user profile data is determined for configuring a personalized video channel in communication with a first client device. At the method comprises setting a set of viewing controls associated with a subset of user profile data sub profile data as discussed above of the set of user profile data that sets a limit and monitors viewing of the video content via the personalized video channel at the first client device or a second client device. At the method comprises configuring the personalized video channel based on the set of user profile data and or user viewing controls to communicate the video content from the media sources at defined times.

In one example the personalized video channel can be configured based on the set of user profile data and user controls to communicate the video content of different media sources at the defined times with a time duration. A timed duration can be set to the personalized video channel with the subset of user profile data for example so that a viewing time can be limited or restricted based on a particular user utilizing the channel for viewing and or a particular devices communicating rendering video content with the personalized video channel. Further the video content communicated via the personalized video channel that is associated with the subset of user profile data can be monitored according to a monitoring control of the viewing controls which can enable content to be monitored remotely at the same time and or a later time. An interactive mechanic can also be included as part of the viewing user controls for the personalized channel. The interactive mechanic can comprise a video image character that generates the at least one of a voice a video image a text or a phrase via the personalized video channel to provide an indication of the timed duration set for the personalized video channel.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary system flow in accordance with embodiments described in this disclosure. The method initiates at with identifying by a system comprising at least one processor video content from a plurality of media sources for configuring a personalized video channel. At a set of demographic data is generated that is related to a mobile device that is authorized to configure the personalized video channel with a first video content from a first media source of the plurality of media sources at a first time and a second video content from a second media source of the plurality of media sources at a second time. At a set of predicted video content is generated from the video content of the plurality of media sources based on the set of demographic data. At the set of predicted video content is streamed in a video stream to the mobile device via the personalized video channel. The media sources for example can comprise at least two of a broadcast media channel a web page a web data feed a network subscription service or a video library and the set of demographic data comprises a geographical location including a political region a time a date and statistical data of viewing preferences related to at least one of the geographical location the time or the date.

The method can further comprises associating a weighting measure to the set of demographic data and to the user profile data respectively. In one example the weighting measure can be modified based on an amount of user profile data generated. In addition a programming schedule is generated for the set of predicted video content based on the set of demographic data that comprises statistical data of viewing preferences related to at least one of a geographical location a time and or a date.

In one embodiment a chat screen is communicated via the personalized video channel to at least two mobile devices receiving the video content from the plurality of media sources via the personalized video channel. Additionally the personalized video channel can be configured to communicate the video content from the plurality of media sources at defined times based on user profile data that includes a set of user preferences and a set of behavioral data. The set of user preferences can comprise least one of a media source preference a time preference to associate with the video content a personalized channel selection a theme preference a rating preference an actor preference a language preference and or a date preference. The set of behavioral data can comprise at least one of purchasing date viewing data search data purchase data location data language data age data household membership data and or subscription data and at least one user input control related to the set of predicted video content being communicated via the personalized video channel.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary system flow in accordance with embodiments described in this disclosure. The method initiates at with determining a set of demographic data related to a mobile device for configuring a personalized video channel in communication with the mobile device. At a plurality of media sources are identified that comprising at least two of a broadcast media channel a web page a web data feed a network subscription service or a video library. At the personalized video channel is configured for viewing based on the set of demographic data to communicate video content from the plurality of media sources at defined times. The set of demographic data can comprise for example a geographical location including a political region a time a date and statistical data of viewing preferences related to at least one of the geographical location the time or the date.

The user profile data can be determined based on a set of user preferences related to the video content and a set of behavioral data representing user control inputs related to the video content. The personalized video channel can further be re configured based on the user profile data to communicate the video content of a different media source for a defined time of the defined times. A chat screen is generated to at least two mobile devices receiving the video content from the plurality of media sources via the personalized video channel. A genre classification to the video content from the plurality of media sources can be made wherein the configuring the personalized video channel is based on the genre classification of the video content for the defined times.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary system flow in accordance with embodiments described in this disclosure. The method initiates at with identifying by a system comprising at least one processor video content from media sources for communication of the video content via a personalized video channel. At user profile data is received or determined to configure the personalized video channel according to a time the video content and the media sources of the video content. At a set of predicted video content is determined from the media sources based on user profile data that comprises user preferences and a set of behavioral data representing user control inputs received for the video content. At a rendering of the video content is from the media sources is facilitated via the personalized video channel in a display component based on the user profile data and the set of predicted video content such as a selection for the predicted content from the prediction component and or a user input control selection from among options presented.

The media sources can comprise at least two of a broadcast media channel a web page a web data feed a network subscription service or a video library with personalized video content such as home personal videos with a recording device. The personalized video channel is able to be modified by a user with a second video content from a second media source to replace a first video content from a first media source at a designated or scheduled times. For example the user preferences can comprises a time preference a date preference a video content preference a media source preference or a video portion preference that corresponds to the video content from the media sources.

In one embodiment the method can include receiving a request from a first mobile device to receive the personalized video channel at the first mobile device. The second mobile device that can be authorized to configure the personalized video channel for different media sources and or video content identified can generate an acceptance for the first second mobile device. The system can then receive the acceptance and publish the personalized video channel to the first mobile device.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary system flow in accordance with embodiments described in this disclosure. The method initiates at and generates user profile data comprising user preferences and behavioral data representing user control inputs associated with a personalized channel to be rendered by a mobile device. At media sources and video content communicated from the media sources are predicted based on the user profile data for a viewer or a user of the mobile device. At the personalized channel is configured with the predicted video content from the media sources at different times based on the user profile data and the predicted media sources. At the video content is communicated from the media sources via the personalized channel for rendering by the mobile device.

In one embodiment the method can further comprise generating a prediction grid that communicates the video content based on the user profile data. The video content predicted is corresponded or associated to a set of points in time along a time line based on metadata associated with the video content and identification of the media sources of the video content for a selected point of the set of points. A prediction grid can also be communicated via the personalized channel to the mobile device in which the prediction grid comprises a past point of time a present point of time and a future point of time of the set of points that indicates the video content predicted at the selected point depending on a set of criteria that comprises at least one of user profile data stored at the present point of time or user profile data stored at the selected point along the time line. The user preferences can further include a classification criterion that comprises at least one of a theme an age range a media content rating an actor or actress or a title represented in the user profile data.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary system flow in accordance with embodiments described in this disclosure. The method identifies by a system comprising at least one processor video content at from media sources for generating or communicating the video content via a personalized video channel. For example the media sources can comprise at least two of a broadcast media channel a web page site a web data feed a network subscription service a social network feed and or a video library and the like. At user profile data is generated based on a set of user preferences for the video content and a set of behavioral data that represents user control inputs related to the video content. The user preferences could be a genre an audio word or phrase within the content a title a language spoken an actor actress present a time date for rendering via the personalized channel and the like. The user preferences can include a classification criterion for example that comprises at least one of a theme an age range a media content rating an actor or actress a title which is associated with the video content and whether audio content of a video content portion matches a word or phrase of a search criteria represented in the user profile data.

The behavioral data can include activities of the user for determining what the user could be interested in such as purchases made of video content search terms or criteria for video content activities during viewing of video content e.g. skipping content fast forwarding etc. and any control input to video content in response to rendering the video content via a personalized channel.

At a rendering of the video content is facilitated from the media sources by a display component via the personalized video channel based on the user profile data. The channel is personalized for rendering content from various sources at different times and operable to interact with the content through sharing publishing to other devices rendering in a view pane further configuration e.g. altering source during a particular time modifying the video content form a particular source etc. . In addition or alternatively a personalized channel selection can be received as profile data that determines whether the video content of a first personalized video channel or a different video content of a second personalized video channel is sent to the display component for rendering in a display component for viewing.

In one embodiment the method can include comparing the video content from the media sources to identify duplicate video content and removing the duplicate video content from a set of video content selections in order to provide video content and or media sources of the respective content as selections for configuring the personalized channel based on user profile data. The removal of duplicates could be according to one or more criteria such as bit rate resolution and or other video quality criteria for maintaining the video content having a greater quality of service than the duplicate video content. For example the method could include analyzing the video content from the media sources to determine one or more video characteristics such as bitrate frame rate frame size audio content formatting a title an actor and or actress and or metadata pertaining to the video content. The analysis of video content can operate to enable further removal of duplicate video content.

In another embodiment the method can further include partitioning of the video content into a plurality of video content portions based on a defined set of criteria that comprises at least one of a topic an audio content a transition point in the video content a duration or time frame a match of the set of user preferences of the user profile data or the audio content of the video content being determined to match a word or phrase of a search criterion of the defined set of criteria. The portions can include for example various programming sequences being broadcast from one or more of the media sources and or of entire video content in which the portions are splices of subsets of the video content in order to facilitate rendering of only interesting sections according to user profile data.

Referring to illustrated is an exemplary system flow in accordance with embodiments described in this disclosure. The method generates user profile data having a set of user preferences for a set of personalized channels to be rendered by a display component. At the set of personalized channels is configured with media sources comprising at least two of a broadcast channel a news data feed a social data feed a web site a subscription broadcast service a personal data store and or the like. At video content is communicated from the media sources on the set of personalized channels based on the user profile data for rendering by the display component.

In one embodiment configuring the set of personalized channels can include associating metadata with the video content or with at least one of the media sources from which the video content originate. The metadata can include information about the video content a media source and or channel data e.g. timing scheduling titles etc. in which the data can be associated from user preferences of the user profile data and or manually associated with the video content and or the media source. In addition additional media sources can be added to the set of personalized channels as additional sources available are identified.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various non limiting embodiments of the shared systems and methods described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various non limiting embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the shared shopping mechanisms as described for various non limiting embodiments of the subject disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in communications network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing object or device etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of the shared shopping systems provided in accordance with various non limiting embodiments of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the shared shopping systems as described in various non limiting embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. A client can be a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself.

In client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. acting as servers provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the shared shopping techniques as described herein for one or more non limiting embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described herein can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network or bus is the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers with which other computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Computing objects etc. acting as servers may also serve as clients e.g. computing objects or devices etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described herein can be applied to a number of various devices for employing the techniques and methods described herein. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various non limiting embodiments i.e. anywhere that a device may wish to engage on behalf of a user or set of users. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device.

Although not required non limiting embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various non limiting embodiments described herein. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer readable storage media and communication media. Computer readable storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer readable storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may also include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data that may be communicated in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution.

Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

