---

title: Method, a system and a computer program product for scoring a profile in social networking system
abstract: A method, system and a computer program product for scoring a profile in a social networking system. The method comprises at least one Fan profile, at least one Talent profile and at least one Business profile, comprising a computer that has access to the social networking system. The computer is configured to receive information of the number of sharing actions the profile has introduced to the social networking system; receive information of the number of commercial actions the profile has executed in the social networking system; receive indication of interest from the profile, wherein each indication of interest is an action taken by the profile that shows that the profile has interest in the Talent profile or the Business profile; and calculate based upon the number of sharing actions and the number of commercial actions score metrics representing the profile's influence for the Talent profile or the Business profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251285&OS=09251285&RS=09251285
owner: TEAMUP, OY
number: 09251285
owner_city: 
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20130315
---
The invention relates to social networking systems. More specifically the invention relates to scoring a profile in a social network where Fans Talents and Businesses have interconnected profiles.

Current social networking systems enable Businesses to communicate with Talents that they are sponsoring or Fans of the Talent. The problem with social media or social networks is that there are currently not sophisticated means to value the effect of a connection between the Business and the Talent or between the Talent and the Fan or the Business and the Fan. Examples of Talents are athletes artists musicians sports clubs or similar entities looking for sponsorship.

When a brand sponsors a Talent there is currently not a way to know who the people and businesses are that the sponsorship is targeted towards. There is not a way to gain a direct connection to the people and businesses connected to a sponsorship for marketing opportunities. There are no technical solutions available where a Fan can see how their social media sharing merchandise and event purchases compare with other Fans of a particular Talent or Group.

One known solution is Facebook where a Talent and a Business can set up a page. These pages are separate and do not work together to provide a marketing opportunity for the business. It also does not address the case for a business to business sales relationship. Once a business is able to gain a like on their social media page they can post a status but there is no guarantee that anyone will see it. The service provider may request a payment to gain extra visibility but this still offers no guarantee of visibility and who actually is engaging with the status post. There is also no way to know once a like is obtained how influential that person or business is in bringing new likes to the business or talent.

Another problem in social networking systems is that there are too many things competing for space in the user s screen or timeline. As a result the marketing effect is diminished. User s use social networks mostly for personal sharing of information so any advertisements get easily discarded.

It is difficult for a Business to tell where Fans come from for example which Talent or Fan attracted them to their business. It is also difficult for a Talent to know who his best fans are.

The purpose of the invention is to score a social network profile. The invention shows how to rank and reward a community member based on his her contributions and actions related to another community member.

The invention discloses a computer implemented method for scoring a profile in a social networking system comprising at least one Fan profile at least one Talent profile and at least one Business profile. In one example the profile to be scored is the Fan profile or the Talent profile. A computer has access to the social networking system and is configured to receive information of the number of sharing actions the profile has introduced to the social networking system receive information of the number of commercial actions the profile has executed in the social networking system receive indication of interest from the profile wherein each indication of interest is an action taken by a profile that shows that the profile has interest in the Talent profile or the Business profile and calculate based upon the number of sharing actions and the number of commercial actions score metrics representing profile s influence for the Talent profile or the Business profile. In one example the indication of interest is received from the Fan profile. The score metrics represent in one embodiment the Fan profile s influence to the Talent profile and in one embodiment the Talent profile s influence to the Business profile.

In one embodiment the information of the number of sharing actions comprises the number of visitors following the link shared to the social networking system. The number is obtained for example by detecting the link usage metrics received from the web page service provider. In one embodiment information of the number of sharing actions comprises the number of new Fans that the profile for example the Fan or the Talent profile has introduced to the social networking system. The number of introduced new members is obtained for example by carrying the information of the profile sharing the link to the profile registration link. The number may be obtained also by the new member profile indicating the profile that shared the link or recommended the service.

In one embodiment information of the number of sharing actions comprises the number of items that were sold to other profiles as a result of sharing the item to the social networking system. For example the first Fan profile may have shared the item to another profile which is not yet assigned to be a Fan profile or will become a new Fan after the sharing. The item is a product or a service. In one embodiment information of the number of commercial actions comprises the number of items purchased from the Talent or from the Business. The sharing or recommendation is indicated within the sales event. In one embodiment information of the number of commercial actions comprises the number of participations to events related to the Talent or to the Business. In one embodiment information of a commercial action is determined by receiving a unique code assigned to the item and comparing the unique code to the list of codes stored in the social networking system. For example the information of the participation is determined by comparing a ticket number range received from the event organizer to the number received from the Fan.

The second aspect of the invention discloses a computer program product for scoring a profile in a social networking system comprising at least one Fan profile at least one Talent profile and at least one Business profile residing on a non transitory processor readable medium and comprising processor readable instructions which when executed cause a computer system to receive information of the number of sharing actions the profile has introduced to the social networking system receive information of the number of commercial actions the profile has executed in the social networking system and receive indications of interest from fans wherein each indication of interest is an action taken by the profile that shows that the profile has interest in the Talent profile or the Business profile calculate based upon the number of sharing actions and the number of commercial actions score metrics representing the profile s influence for the Talent profile or the Business profile.

The third aspect of the invention discloses a social networking system for scoring a profile comprising at least one Fan profile at least one Talent profile and at least one Business profile comprising a computer that has access to the social networking system comprising at least one processor and memory storing instructions configured to instruct the at least one processor to receive information of the number of sharing actions the profile has introduced to the social networking system receive information of the number of commercial actions the profile has executed in the social networking system receive indication of interest from the profile wherein each indication of interest is an action taken by the profile that shows that the profile has interest in the Talent profile or the Business profile and calculate based upon the number of sharing actions and the number of commercial actions score metrics representing the profile s influence for the Talent profile or the Business profiles.

The present invention provides technical solutions that would allow a Talent profile or Business profile or Group to find out the impact of the social media sharing of individual Fans that would tell the Talent how many new Fans are brought by a particular Fan or how many new sales happened because of a particular Fan. The invention also takes into account the activities such as attending events buying items such as CDs t shirts etc. The invention provides also a technical solution that shows the Talent or Group who their top fans are. It helps a Talent or Group sell merchandise or experiences to Fans and to enhance sponsorship opportunities for Businesses by giving a direct marketing channel to their Fans. The invention enables the scoring and ranking of profiles having specific roles. The roles of Fans Talents and Businesses or groups formed of these have an influence that can be visualized to the user. The Fan can see how social media sharing merchandise and event purchases compare with other Fans of a particular Talent or Group.

The embodiments of the invention described hereinbefore may be used in any combination with each other. Several of the embodiments may be combined together to form a further embodiment of the invention. A method an apparatus a system or a computer program to which the invention is related may comprise at least one of the embodiments of the invention described hereinbefore. It is to be understood that any of the above embodiments or modifications can be applied singly or in combination to the respective aspects to which they refer unless they are explicitly stated as excluding alternatives.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

A social network system is an online service platform or site that focuses on facilitating the building of social networks or social relations among people who for example share interests activities backgrounds or real life connections. The social network or social media comprises users with different roles or profiles. A profile may be considered in different roles in different contexts. According to the present invention three profile types are introduced a Fan a Talent and a Business. At least two Talents form a Group. For this specification the Fan or Fan profile already present in the social network community system is the first Fan and any new Fan or Fan profile is called the new Fan. This example does not limit the number of Fans in the social network or in the community. The community refers to the social network community system according to the present invention comprising at least one interconnected Business Talent and Fan profile. The social network service according to the present invention may comprise several interconnected Business Talent or Fan profiles. The social network service may comprise a front page configured to be visualized as an Internet web page. The front page may comprise examples of Businesses or Talents and to indicate the reader of the web page some influential Businesses or Talents within the social network service.

The Talent or Group profile is part of the Business team profile. The Business Team refers to those profiles that are linked to the Business profile or receiving a sponsorship action executed by the Business profile. This enables a coordinated effort to market within a community. The invention takes into account actions and contributions made to a specific Talent or Group by providing a single point to link back to. The solutions according to prior art tell a Talent or Group how influential a person or the first Fan is in social media in general but not what they are influencing people about. The present invention provides a more refined scoring and ranking solution.

The Fan profile s influence to the Business is indicated primarily via the Talent profile. The Business receives visibility by being available in the Talent s page. The Talent profile s influence to the Business can be measured by the visibility to the Fans new Fans joining the community or Fans purchasing items from the Business or joining the Business community. The Business can get a recognizable marketing effect and a direct contact with Fans by endorsing a Talent.

When illustrating the importance of the first Fan for a Talent or Group factors that may be taken into account are for example how much the first Fan marketed a Talent or Group by sharing e.g. Fan shop items in social media and how successful were those sharing actions. Other factors are how much the first Fan purchase items and attend events of the Talent or Group from the Talent shop in the social community and outside the community. Based on collected information the system is able to calculate ranking in relation to other Fans of a Talent or Group.

The invention also illustrates how important the first Fan Talent Business or Business Team is for the community. Factors include the identity and the number of new Fans that the first Fan introduced to the community. Another factor that may be included is the route via which Talents or Businesses acquired the new Fan. Another factor that may be included is the identity and the number of Talents the first Fan has introduced to the community and via which Talents or Businesses Another factor that may be included is the identity and number of Businesses the first Fan has introduced to the community and via which Talents or Businesses. Based on collected information the system calculates ranking in relation to other Fans Talents or Businesses in the community.

In the present social networks a person group business can have many followers fans supporters but limited means to identify the most important ones. If a Talent has 5800 likes for his page in a social network service he doesn t know which of those are the most loyal. Nor does he know which of them helped him to grow his Fan base the most. And he doesn t know which of them have supported him the most combined financially and socially by sharing his profile and encouraging others to support him as well. The same problem may relate to the first Fan not being able to know how to stand out from the crowd. The first Fan does not know how they rank amongst other Talent or Group s fans.

The present invention calculates a Fan score based upon the first Fan s activities in social media in regards to sharing a Talent or Group profile or item from the shop to their social media channels. The system scores the share and more importantly the influence of the person by taking into account also when someone clicks the link and subsequently joins the community becomes a Fan of the Talent and also when the person or profile purchases something.

The present invention may also add to the Fan score points for activities that take place outside of the community such as attending an event or purchasing an item outside of the community i.e. event ticket from another on line service or item from another merchant. In practice the Talent may ask the event organizer the range of ticket numbers they were selling for the event. The Talent or Business may then enter the range of ticket numbers to the community according to the invention and the system could match the numbers in the list with the numbers Fans are typing when they want to prove that they were at the event. The Fan may be rewarded with some perks or benefits from the Talent or Talent s sponsor.

Another embodiment for incorporating the ticket purchasing information to the community system or database is via an Application Programming Interface API to the community system according to the invention which automatically imports the ticket purchase. The ticket purchasing system e.g. Lippu.fi allows for the community User id or Fan id to be entered into a field at the point of sale so the information is transferred electronically to the community system.

The Talent or Group creates a profile within the social network community system. The Talent or Group may create a Fan shop as part of the profile to sell items and experiences. The first Fan also creates a profile to the social network community system assigning to be a Fan of the Talent.

As an example the first Fan is scored and ranked in relation to a particular Talent based upon the following system illustrating the number of points the first Fan gets for each action 

As a further example the Fan Business and Talent gain specific community scores that affect the overall ranking of the Business profile or the Talent profile. This information is shown in the front page of the social network service wherein the most influential Business profiles or Talent profiles are highlighted. Similar ranking may apply also within the Business profile s defined social community. The scoring is based on the following rules 

The scoring information is saved in the database related to each profile so the community may receive the information about the first Fan Talent Business or Business Team that has grown the community the most.

When a Talent has an event outside of the social network community system the Fans of the Talent can enter their unique ticket identifier into the community system to receive credit for attending the event. Alternatively when a Fan purchases an event ticket or merchandise from a service other than the social network community system e.g. online ticket service such as Lippu.fi they can give their community user id at the time of purchase to receive credit in the community for their purchase when the outside service is set up to send information to the community electronically. Or alternatively information received via e.g. Foursquare API about Fan s check in to the event could be counted.

In one exemplary embodiment the social network community system compiles the scores for Fans of the Talent within the community. The community is configured to rank the first Fan for the Talent based on a high score to low score. The highest score receives the ranking of 1. The Talent is able to see the ranking of his Fans and detailed information of the activities that gave them that ranking. The Fan is able to see his ranking for a particular Talent as compared to other Fans of the Talent. The social community is configured to execute actions based on the ranking for example the Talent can send messages to his top fans.

One example comprises two Fans called Kimmo and Donna . Since both Fans Kimmo and Donna earned 14 points related to Talent A and that was the most anybody had they share the number one position related to Talent A. Talent A can see the ranking of his Fans and act accordingly.

A User is defined in the social network community system as a person who has created at least one type of profile in the service according to the present invention Fan profile Business profile or Talent profile. The user can create multiple profiles in the system. A unique identifier is used to differentiate the user. One example of unique identifier for the User id is his email address.

A person who does not have a User id in the system is defined as a Visitor. A Visitor can be identified with e.g. web browser cookies.

In one example the Talent profile is assigned as the shopkeeper to a Fan shop or to a Business shop which consists of items for sale. Items in the shop have Shop item id picture description price either actual price with or without the VAT or ask for pricing availability how many items available out of stock availability until date. In the case of Business shop an item can also have a sponsor me to your team flag.

The points table is assigned to Points table in the social network community system. The system comprises a table which lists how many points are related to different actions and to which profile. An example of the table according to the invention 

The sharing in the social network community system contributes to an entry to a table keeping track of the profile Fan Talent Business Business Team has shared which item another profile an item in the Talent shop and offer in the Business Team .

The URL that is shared can take a form of e.g. http www.teamup.fi shared shared link id where the shared link id can be generated using e.g. MD5 function with the input of all other values in the same row of the table. For instance if the first Fan assigned as Fan1 shares Talent T1 s profile the following URL could be shared outside the social network community http www.teamup.fi shared 904d24576a87555d980d9bde276af8f5. The MD5 hash function from the combination of Fan1 T T1 NULL NULL equals 904d24576a87555d980d9bde276af8f5 as illustrated in a table of different use cases.

When the visitor has clicked the URL the shared function of the web service queries the shared link table. When the shared link id entry is found the visitor is directed to the indicated page based on the information stored in the table. For instance if someone follows the URL http www.teamup.fi shared ad7318c76b4659a83e488962b5876695 he is brought to the Talent T1 s shop to see item I1.

An exemplary embodiment of the case where the first Fan Kimmo shares Talent T1 s profile is illustrated in . In step the first Fan Fan1 shares Talent T1 s profile in the social network community. The first Fan earns 1 point as illustrated in the Points table. The first Fan profile is also configured to operate with a list or table which shows the points earned related to each Talent he is Fan of points earned table the entry related to the Talent T1 is increased with 1 point.

In step a person who does not have a membership or profile to the social network community clicks the link and is directed to the community site based on the Shared link table. The person is considered in the role of a Visitor since there is no previously completed profile or the person is not signed in or registered to the service

In step the visitor decides to assign as a Fan for Talent T1 in the social network community. The service requests the Visitor to register as a new user and create a Fan profile or alternatively let the Visitor sign in with the existing username. In both cases the system temporarily stores the action ClickBFT as described in Points table.

In step if the Visitor creates a new Fan profile and becomes a Fan of Talent T1 Fan1 s points earned table s entry related to Talent T1 is increased with 10 points as queried from Points table for the temporarily stored ClickBFT action code. In this case the system can also register that Fan1 grew the community and reward him with similar procedure as with Points table. This new Fan also gets 1 point as specified in the Points table.

In step if the Visitor signs in with an existing Fan profile and becomes a Fan of Talent T1 Fan1 s points earned table s entry related to Talent T1 is increased with 10 points as queried from Points table for the temporarily stored ClickBFT action code.

Calculating the number of points a Fan gets by purchasing items outside of the social network community is exemplified by a following scenario. The Talent has an event to which the tickets are only sold by external merchandise seller such as Lippu.fi. The Fan is rewarded for purchases in the social network community. The Talent sets up a specific item in the Fan shop. In this example the Talent s Fan shop comprises a link to an event seller outside the community. The Talent enters External item id code supplied by the outside Event ticket or merchandise seller Seller if the event ticket sales or merchandise sales is sent to the social network community via an API. If the process is manual then the social network service generates the Item ID for manual entry of ticket sales or merchandise sales.

The item information is in one exemplary embodiment entered manually to the social network community system. The Talent receives from the Seller the ticket id range sold e.g. 1 1000 or a list of ticket id s sold if the ticket id s are not sequential. Similarly merchandise id codes may be received from the merchandise seller.

The social network community system creates a list of Items sold and the identities of Fans that have bought the Item and this initially assigns a null value for the Fan that has bought the Item. The first value is the Item Id that is automatically generated by the social network community system the second is the Item number supplied by the Seller and the 3rd is the fan who bought the Item e.g. ITEM ID267 ITEM NBR1 NULL ITEM ID267 ITEM NBR2 NULL . . . 

In the graphical representation of the user interface next to the item in the Talent shop is a clickable button or a link indicating a text I purchased this. When the Fan clicks the button a field is opened where the Fan can enter the item number related to the purchased item. The item number is verified by comparing it to the list previously generated. If numbers match the Fan Id replaces the null value for that item. In addition this item is now added to the Fan ranking calculation and the Fan is given 10 points.

Another exemplary embodiment is illustrated in . In this example the Business team BT expresses interest for joining as a sponsor to a Talent. This is executed for example by a purchase request for item sponsor me to your team arrow . The Talent has open items that enable the Business Team to become sponsors easily. In arrow the Talent accepts the purchase request and in arrow the Talent becomes a member of the business team. The Business team has a predefined message to be sent together with benefits for Fans of a new Talent joining the team arrow . The request to join the Business team BT is sent to all Fans of the Talent. The Talent is the designated sender of the request on behalf of the Business team arrow . All Fans who accept the request will become members of the business team and receive benefits .

One embodiment of the invention provides an Application Programming Interface API wherein tickets and items may be purchased from Service with API to the social network community system. The ticket and merchandise selling service the Seller provides the Talent or the community an ID for an Item they are selling for the Talent in the community. The Talent sets up an Item in the Fan shop for the Item that indicates it will be sold outside of the community. The Talent enters the Item ID provided by the Seller.

The Seller provides to the community system Items sold in its service for community members. The Seller provides a field in the ordering service for the community member to enter the user Id when purchasing the ticket or item. The Seller then provides the community with a list of Fans who have bought tickets from collecting the information from the ordering system. The list first indicates the event or item then pairs with the Fan ID e.g. Event ID123 FAN ID1 Event ID123 FAN ID2 . . . 

When the community system receives the list from the Seller it triggers the purchase of this item by all of the Fans in the list. The first Fan s profile gains the information of the purchase of the Item. The addition to the profile is handled in a similar manner to how other items purchased from the Talent fan shop are handled and the first Fan receives 10 points for the purchase of this Item.

Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in software hardware application logic or a combination of software hardware and application logic. In an example embodiment the application logic software or instruction set is maintained on any one of various conventional computer readable media. In the context of this document a computer readable medium may be any media or means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer. A computer readable medium may comprise a computer readable storage medium that may be any media or means that can contain or store the instructions for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer. The exemplary embodiments can store information relating to various processes described herein. This information can be stored in one or more memories such as a hard disk optical disk magneto optical disk RAM and the like. One or more databases can store the information used to implement the exemplary embodiments of the present inventions. The databases can be organized using data structures e.g. records tables arrays fields graphs trees lists and the like included in one or more memories or storage devices listed herein. The processes described with respect to the exemplary embodiments can include appropriate data structures for storing data collected and or generated by the processes of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments in one or more databases.

All or a portion of the exemplary embodiments can be conveniently implemented using one or more general purpose processors microprocessors digital signal processors micro controllers and the like programmed according to the teachings of the exemplary embodiments of the present inventions as will be appreciated by those skilled in the computer and or software art s . Appropriate software can be readily prepared by programmers of ordinary skill based on the teachings of the exemplary embodiments as will be appreciated by those skilled in the software art. In addition the exemplary embodiments can be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be appreciated by those skilled in the electrical art s . Thus the exemplary embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and or software.

If desired the different functions discussed herein may be performed in a different order and or concurrently with each other.

Furthermore if desired one or more of the above described functions may be optional or may be combined. Although various aspects of the invention are set out in the independent claims other aspects of the invention comprise other combinations of features from the described embodiments and or the dependent claims with the features of the independent claims and not solely the combinations explicitly set out in the claims.

It is obvious to a person skilled in the art that with the advancement of technology the basic idea of the invention may be implemented in various ways. The invention and its embodiments are thus not limited to the examples described above instead they may vary within the scope of the claims.

