---

title: Small molecule conjugates with dimetal species for protein inhibition
abstract: Methods for targeting a protein by providing an inhibitor covalently linked to a rhodium(II) complex, introducing the inhibitor to the target protein and allowing the inhibitor and protein to interact. The rhodium(II) complex covalently linked to the inhibitor binds the target protein both inorganically and organically and forms stabilizing secondary contacts between the rhodium(II) complex and the protein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09045527&OS=09045527&RS=09045527
owner: TRUSTEES OF DARTMOUTH COLLEGE
number: 09045527
owner_city: Hanover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130612
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 658 760 filed Jun. 12 2012 which is incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. R21 NS067613 and R01 DK075309 awarded by National Institute of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Protein protein interactions PPIs often play key roles in cellular processes and human disease. Examples of biological events that involve PPIs include signal transduction transcription protein ligand receptor interactions and protein assembly. There are many instances in which it is therapeutically useful to block the interaction of a target protein with another protein or with a therapeutic agent e.g. small molecule drug . Protein inhibition is the most common and successful target for drug treatment. However the proteins involved in these interactions often lack compact pockets accessible to traditional ligand discovery methods.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted electronically in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Jan. 6 2015 is named 13 21054 US SL.txt and is 8 225 bytes in size.

The present disclosure generally relates to methods for providing protein inhibition and more particularly to methods using protein inhibitors comprising rhodium II complexes. The rhodium II complex es disclosed herein are alternatively referred to rhodium II metallopeptides. Accordingly the terms rhodium II metallopeptides and rhodium II complex es are interchangeable for the purposes of the current invention.

The features and advantages of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art. While numerous changes may be made by those skilled in the art such changes are within the spirit of the invention.

While the present disclosure is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific example embodiments have been shown in figures and are herein described in more detail. It should be understood however that the description of specific example embodiments is not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary this disclosure is to cover all modifications and equivalents as illustrated in part by the appended claims.

The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing s will be provided by the Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.

The present disclosure generally relates to methods for providing protein inhibition and more particularly to methods using protein inhibitors comprising rhodium II complexes.

The present disclosure provides according to certain embodiments methods comprising introducing to a target protein a compound comprising an inhibitor covalently linked to a rhodium II complex and allowing the protein and compound to interact and form stabilizing secondary contacts between the rhodium II complex and the protein. The inhibitor covalently linked to a rhodium II complex may be more selective and potent than inhibitor molecules that rely on organic non covalent assembly or inorganic coordination assembly separately.

It has previously been shown that for enzyme inhibitors multiple weak interactions can be combined to yield polyvalent ligands with enhanced potency and specificity. The present disclosure is based in part on hybrid structures utilizing cooperative organic inorganic binding to a target protein. illustrates the binding mechanism of such a hybrid structure.

The inhibitors may be covalently linked to a rhodium II complex through carboxylate side chains. In general the rhodium II complex is capable of forming secondary contacts with a target protein for example at the periphery of a protein binding interface. Such secondary contacts facilitate interaction between the inhibitor and the target protein. The dirhodium centers can interact with specific amino acid residues delivering significantly more stabilization energy up to 5 kcal mol than noncovalent interactions typically 

It is believed that to exploit reversible coordination chemistry across the binding interface a discrete organic inorganic complex must contain a stable organic metal linkage while allowing ligand exchange at the metal center in order to bind targeted side chains. Di metal pinwheel structures such as rhodium II tetracarboxylate have well differentiated ligand environments containing both kinetically inert equatorial carboxylate ligands and kinetically labile axial ligand sites see with demonstrated capabilities to bind biologically relevant thiol and imidazole compounds in a reversible manner.

In general inhibitors suitable for use include peptides peptidomimentics or a small molecule therapeutic i.e. not peptide based that are capable of covalently binding to the rhodium II complex.

In certain embodiments the inhibitor is a peptide that comprises a Lewis basic side chains e.g. histidine or methionine . For example a rhodium II metallopeptides may comprise Lewis basic side chains comprising glutamate E3E or methionine E3M peptides.

In certain specific embodiments the inhibitor covalently linked to a rhodium II complex is capable of displacing representative peptide ligands from the PDZ domain of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR associated ligand CAL. The PDZ domain is a family of peptide binding PPI modules named for the first three members PSD 95 Dlg and ZO 1.

In certain specific embodiments the covalently linked to a rhodium II complex is an inhibitor of Na H exchanger regulatory factor 1 NHERF 1 binding to the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR .

To facilitate a better understanding of the present invention the following examples of certain aspects of some embodiments are given. In no way should the following examples be read to limit or define the entire scope of the invention.

Rhodium II centers are capable of forming stabilizing secondary contacts at the periphery of a protein binding interface while examining the coiled coil assembly of rhodium II metallopeptides with histidine containing peptides. A rhodium II center linked to a coil at positions a and e of a heptad repeat abcdefg See would be proximal to position g of the complementary peptide E3X. It has been found that coordination of appropriate position g side chains strongly stabilizes the coiled coil. For example thermal denaturation of a mixture of E3H and K3Rhrevealed a high melting temperature T 66.1 C. See entry 1 and in contrast to simple E3 K3 dimers and to control experiments with non coordinating phenylalanine T 39.5 C. entry 1 .

This coiled coil stabilization reflects a specific interaction of the rhodium center. It has been shown that moving the histidine residue away from the interface to position c led to a drop in Tto 47.0 C. entry 8 and . The addition of large concentrations of imidazole either before or after coiled coil assembly also led to a significant drop in melting temperature to 46 C. providing evidence for a reversible metal ligand interaction. Finally upon assembly with the E3H coil the metallopeptide K3Rhexhibits a blue shift of the UV vis absorption peak from 587 nm to 567 nm consistent with a rhodium II tetracarboxylate containing axial nitrogen or sulfur ligands.

Coiled coil assemblies with either glutamate E3E or methionine E3M peptides exhibited elevated Tvalues 50.2 C. and 70 C. respectively consistent with carboxylate rhodium or stronger thioether rhodium interactions entries 3 5 7 . The Tvalues of 65 70 C. represent the most stable intermolecular coiled coils yet reported for such a short peptide 21 amino acids similar to stabilities achieved with covalent crosslinking Insertion of cysteine at the same position on the other hand led to a coiled coil with decreased stability.

To extend the concept of organic inorganic cooperatively to the discovery of potent PPI inhibitors interactions between the CAL PDZ domain CALP and the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR were examined. The C terminus of CFTR interacts with several proteins e.g. CAL NHERF1 . Despite its potential value as a target inhibiting CALP is distinctly difficult due to its broad specificity and comparatively low baseline affinity. A screen of inverted peptide arrays was combined with in vitro fluorescence polarization measurements to identify selective CALP inhibitors. However the potency of these inhibitors remained modest with Ki 1.3 M.

The CAL PDZ domain contains several histidine residues near the peptide binding site making it an attractive target for a hybrid organic inorganic approach to inhibitor design See . To test the potential contributions of rhodium based interactions to CALP inhibitor affinity known methods were used to prepare metallopeptides based on sequences known to interact with CALP. PDZ binding requires free C terminal carboxylates and it was found to be convenient to metalate a peptide containing both C terminal and side chain carboxylates and then to isolate the side chain modified metallopeptide from the product mixture by HPLC See .

Inhibitor equilibrium dissociation K constants were measured using fluorescence anisotropy to observe the displacement of a fluorescent reporter peptide and . The VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 1 peptide derived from the native target CFTR had a weak CALP affinity. Direct incorporation of a rhodium II center at the aspartate side chain carboxylate VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 2 resulted in a decrease in the apparent inhibitory constant K relative to the parent peptide entries 1 2 but when the new value 6.3 M was compared to a simple rhodium complex Rh OAc the improvement was not statistically significant. The apparent affinity of VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 2 was also comparable to that of a metallopeptide derived from a non binding scrambled control sequence QLDVTR SEQ ID NO 4 entry 4 . Together these data suggest that the effects seen with rhodium II addition at the Psite P C terminal residue of VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 1 are not specific.

Two metallopeptides having a site of rhodium attachment at the Pwere designed because it was believed that the structural analysis of the CALP domain indicated that the Pposition should be proximal to the His301 residue in this target See . entries 5 8 demonstrate that these metallopeptides exhibit statistically significant and reproducible affinity enhancement relative to controls entries 5 8 . Working with a sequence EWPTSII SEQ ID NO 5 carrying a glutamate side chain at the Pposition metalation increased binding affinity from 65 to 1.7 M a 40 fold enhancement. An even larger enhancement was seen with the sequence EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 6 which contains the dominant C terminal tetrapeptide identified by array screens. The metallopeptide EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 7 bound with the highest affinity yet reported for CALP 0.56 M a 75 fold change relative to the parent peptide and . HSQC footprinting spectra in the presence of either the peptide or metallopeptide supporting information were well dispersed confirming binding to the canonical PDZ site with localized differences.

A CALP H301A mutant was prepared to ascertain the role of His301 in metallopeptide affinity. This mutant binds the parent EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 6 with a Kvalue of 80 M only slightly 2 fold weaker than the wild type protein. However the mutant binds the metallopeptide with an apparent Kof 9.2 M a 16 fold loss of affinity relative to wild type consistent with the predicted His301 rhodium ligation.

To provide an independent demonstration of rhodium based affinity enhancement and to establish the efficacy of rhodium metallopeptides in a more complex environment a pulldown inhibition assay was performed using epithelial cell lysate. Relative to the non metalated control the metallopeptide EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 7 exhibits improved inhibition demonstrating that the affinity gains carry over to a more physiological environment .

As shown in Western blot of native CAL was captured from epithelial lysates in the presence of increasing concentrations of EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 6 peptide with Rh or without Rh rhodium. Quantification reveals dose dependent inhibition of CAL pulldown PD by the metalated peptide n 3 as shown in . Thus the metalation improves inhibitor potency.

The metallopeptide EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 7 K 0.56 M is the first reported inhibitor with sub micromolar affinity for the CAL PDZ domain and is significantly shorter than decameric single micromolar alternatives. In addition comparative binding studies with the CALP H301A mutant and with Pmetalated peptides indicate that rhodium mediates affinity enhancement through peripheral interactions specific to the given target binding site.

Solvents and reagents were purchased from Fisher Scientific and used as received. Millipore ultra purified water 18 M was used in all cases.

Synthesis of known compounds The dirhodium precursor cis Rh2 tfa 2 OAc 2 1 substrate coil peptides and catalysts K3a eRh2 and K3g dRh2 2 as well as the diazo reagent 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethoxy ethyl E 4 phenyl 2 diazo 3 butenoate 1 3a were prepared and purified according to published procedures that are known in the art.

Peptide synthesis All peptides were synthesized with an Advanced ChemTech APEX 396 Automated Multipeptide Synthesizer using standard solid phase Fmoc protocols. Rink amide MBHA resin AAPPTEC or preloaded Wang resin AAPPTEC was used to afford C terminal amides or carboxylates respectively. The peptides were acetylated at the N terminus prior to cleavage from the resin. The purification was accomplished by reverse phase HPLC with gradients of water acetonitrile containing 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid and peptides were isolated by lyophilization. Analysis and purity assessment was attained by mass spectrometry and analytical HPLC.

Protein reagents The expression vector for the CALP H301A mutant was prepared by PCR mutagenesis using the WT vector as a template. Mutagenesis was verified by DNA sequencing. Expression and purification of the WT and mutant CAL PDZ domains were performed according to commonly described and known methods in the art. The preparation of 15N labeled protein for NMR analysis followed known published protocols.

HPLC HPLC was performed on a Shimadzu CBM 20A instrument with Phenomenex Jupiter 4 Proteo 90A 250 15 mm preparative and Phenomenex Jupiter 4 Proteo 90A 250 4.6 mm analytical columns. Flow rates of 8 mL min and 1 mL min were used for preparative and analytical columns respectively. Analytical and preparative HPLC were performed with gradient of acetonitrile in water. Both solvents contained 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid TFA unless otherwise noted. Data was collected using UV vis absorption at 220 nm and 300 nm.

Mass Spectrometry MALDI MS was performed on a Bruker Daltonics Autoflex MALDI TOF TOF mass spectrometer with CHCA matrix 10 mg mL Thermo Scientific Pierce . Data analysis was performed with the mMass program.

NMR Peptide characterization 1H spectra were recorded on Bruker 500 UltraShield 500 MHz spectrometer for EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 6 system and on Oxford 400 MHz spectrometer for VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 1 system . The chemical shifts are reported in units of part per million ppm relative to solvent peak. HSQC footprinting 25 M N labeled CAL PDZ protein was also subjected to H N heteronuclear single quantum correlation spectroscopy HSQC analysis as described except that tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine was omitted from the final dialysis buffers. Spectra were measured either in the presence of 125 M EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 6 45 M Rh EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 6 or no peptide each at a final concentration of 2.5 v v DMSO. HSQC backbone crosspeaks were assigned by comparison with the previously assigned CALP apo spectrum. NMR comparisons of Dirhodium attachment results to the peptides are shown in . Additionally HSQC analysis and results are shown in .

UV Vis UV Vis spectra were recorded on Varian Cary 50 scan UV Vis Spectrophotometer. The spectra were acquired with 1000 nm min scanning speed in the range of 200 750 nm in a quartz cuvette of cm path length. Visible absorption spectra of c are detailed in .

Circular Dichroism Spectroscopy Thermal denaturation experiments 5 105 C. with a gradient of 1 C. min were performed on a Jasco J810 spectropolarimeter with a Peltier temperature controller Jasco PTC423S . Solutions of 1 1 E3 peptide and K3 metallopeptide both components 100 or 33 M in aqueous buffer in a 0.1 cm sealed cell were analyzed and ellipticity data were acquired at 222 nm red data points S 5 . When imidazole additive was utilized ellipticity data were acquired at 225 nm. Temperature denaturation curves were fit to a two state unfolding model and plotted black line S 5 as fraction unfolded vs. temperature as described previously by Lavigne et al.8 Error associated with the non linear least squared determined Tm was determined using the freely available Solver Statistics macro for Microsoft Excel. The representative studies of the thermal denaturation of the Dirhodium peptide assemblies are shown in .

Protein binding studies Fluorescence anisotropy inhibition binding assays were performed using standard procedures. Briefly wells were prepared containing 1.8 M WT or 5.5 M H301A CAL PDZ protein 30 nM fluorescein labeled iCAL36 reporter Tufts University Core Facility and varying concentrations of inhibitor peptides VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 1 and EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 6 with and without rhodium side chain modification . Following equilibration fluorescence anisotropy values were determined using a Tecan Infinite M1000 plate reader n 3 . Inhibitor equilibrium dissociation Ki constants were estimated as described. DMSO and rhodium II acetate were used as negative controls for unlabeled and labeled peptides respectively.

Capture inhibition assays To determine the ability of inhibitor peptides to displace the interactions of full length CAL in the presence of the epithelial cell proteome a capture inhibition assay was developed. Briefly using published methods a biotin conjugated peptide bait sequence BT iCAL36 was immobilized on streptavidin beads and incubated with clarified lysates of CFBE4lo cells to capture full length CAL in the presence of cellular proteins. For the inhibition assay used here capture was performed in the presence of a dilution series of metalated or non metalated EVQSTRL SEQ ID NO 6 inhibitor peptides. Beads were washed and eluted and bound proteins were separated by SDS PAGE and immunoblotted using an CAL antibody. Band intensities were separately quantified and averaged n 3 .

General procedure for synthesis of CFTR derived metallopeptides Example synthesis of VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 2 The peptide VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 1 15.0 mg 19.4 mol and Rh2 tfa OAc 3 10.1 mg 20.4 mol were charged into a 1 dram vial equipped with a stir bar. A solution of MES buffer 2 N morpholino ethanesulfonic acid 19.4 mL 0.1 M aq soln pH 4.9 was added. The reaction was heated at 50 C. overnight after which all reactants were consumed based on HPLC analysis. The resulting mixture of dirhodium peptide complexes were purified by direct injection of the reaction mixture onto a preparative HPLC column. The metallopeptide bound through the C terminal carboxylate eluted first followed by the desired aspartate bound metallopeptide which was isolated by lyophilization to afford a fluffy light blue powder 8.35 mg 46 yield . Smaller amounts of the later eluting bis dirhodium metallopeptide could also be isolated. Analysis and purity assessment was attained by ESI MS and analytical HPLC. The site of metalation was determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy on the basis of chemical shifts of protons proximal to the bound dirhodium. Dirhodium attachment resulted in discernible changes to one leucine H methyl from 0.87 ppm to 0.65 ppm 1H ca. 0.22 ppm in the C terminal bound product VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 10 and to the aspartate H methylene from 2.81 ppm to 2.69 ppm 1H ca. 0.12 ppm in the side chain bound metallopeptide VQDTRL SEQ ID NO 2 and as shown in .

Additional analysis and purity assessments of the CFTR derived metallopeptide assemblies are shown in B A B A B A B A B A B A B A and B.

Therefore the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein. While numerous changes may be made by those skilled in the art such changes are encompassed within the spirit of this invention as illustrated in part by the appended claims.

