---

title: Intelligent chat system
abstract: The disclosure herein describes an intelligent chat system. During operation, the system monitors content provided by participants of an online chat, and automatically obtains, from a data source, additional information based on the monitored content. The system then presents the obtained additional information to the chat participants without the need for the chat participants to request the additional information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374327&OS=09374327&RS=09374327
owner: VMware, Inc.
number: 09374327
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130108
---
Online chat enables real time communications usually in form of text or multi media based messages between two or more parties. Many tools such as instant messengers Internet Relay Chat IRC talkers etc. are available for users to perform one to one chat or one to many group chat. Unlike other communication channels such as emails or SMS messages where the delay for visual access to the sent message often hampers the flow of communication users of the various online chat systems can view the status such as busy or away of other users and receive instant responses from the other users. This direct bi or multi direction and real time nature of online chat applications make them preferred ways of communication among many people. Recently an increasing number of corporate users are adopting online chatting as a preferred communication channel for business uses such as providing customer support. Nonetheless most chat applications still remain only as a communication tool and do not take full advantage of the computing power available today.

The disclosure herein describes an intelligent chat system. During operation the system monitors content provided by participants of an online chat session and automatically obtains from a data source additional information based on the monitored content. The system then presents the obtained additional information to the chat participants without requiring chat participants to request the additional information manually.

The system can optionally display the additional information within a chat window. The additional information can be a recommendation to the chat participants and can include a map an email a date a time a calendar item or a venue.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the embodiments and is provided in the context of a particular application and its requirements. Various modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present invention is not limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

The present disclosure describes an intelligent chat system that enhances a user s online chat experience by intelligently assisting the user on tasks other than the chat session. For example the intelligent chat system provides an intelligent chat assistant that runs in the background monitors the conversation and provides assistance such as calendar lookup and making recommendations to the users based on the content of the conversation.

Many online chat tools such as instant messengers Internet Relay Chat IRC talkers etc. provide ways for their users to communicate with each other as if the other person were present. Although most existing chat applications provide multi media functionalities such as allowing a user to share photos audio and video files or to click a hyper link these features still require the user to manually select the multi media file or click on a link. It is desirable to provide some intelligence with a chat application in addition to the basic communication function that can enhance the user experience.

To achieve this goal embodiments of the system described herein provide an intelligent chat assistant that monitors the chat content extracts useful information from internal or external data sources based on the chat content and presents that useful information to the chat participants. For example during a chat session a person A may ask a person B for directions to person B s home. In a conventional setting person B either has to type a lengthy description in the chat window to give directions to his home or he can type his home address inside the chat window and let person A search for directions. Either way such an interaction can be time consuming. With the intelligent chat system described herein however a chat assistant constantly monitors the chat content. The intelligent chat assistant can parse text entered by the users to extract meaningful keywords such as address directions time date etc. Consequently the intelligent chat assistant recognizes such a question extracts the home address of person B uses a mapping application such as a web based online map search service to obtain a map showing the directions to person B s home and presents the map inside the chat window. Compared with the conventional chat experience such automatic response of the intelligent chat assistant enables more effective communications among chat participants.

Network may correspond to any type of wired or wireless networks capable of coupling computing nodes e.g. chat server and chat clients . Such networks include but are not limited to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN an enterprise s intranet a virtual private network VPN and or a combination of networks. In one or embodiment of the present system network includes the Internet. Network may also include telephone and cellular networks such as Global Systems for Mobile Communications GSM networks or Long Term Evolution LTE networks.

Chat server provides online chat services to multiple client machines. In one embodiment chat server runs a chat server application that provides instant messaging IM services which can be an Enterprise Instant Messaging EIM service or a Consumer Instant Messaging CIM service or a combination of both. Various types of messaging protocols can be used by chat server including but not limited to Instant Messaging and Presence Protocol IMPP Extensible Messaging Presence Protocol XMPP Advanced Message Queuing Protocol AMQP and various proprietary protocols.

Users such as users and can communicate with each other via chat client applications that run on machines such as chat clients and respectively. The chat clients can be any type of node on network with computational capability and mechanisms for communicating across the network. For example the chat clients can include but are not limited to a workstation a personal computer PC a laptop computer a tablet computer a smartphone and or other electronic computing devices with network connectivity. Furthermore a chat client may couple to network using wired and or wireless connections.

The intelligent chat assistant may be part of the chat client application or the chat server application. In one embodiment the intelligent chat assistant is part of the chat client application residing on a chat client machine. The intelligent chat assistant can also be a stand alone application that is independent from and agnostic to the chat application. One function of the intelligent chat assistant is that it monitors the content of a chat session and based on such content spontaneously obtain information outside the chat session to assist the chat participants. Examples of such chat assistance include but are not limited to accessing on behalf of a user the local resources such as the user s emails calendar local files or media library obtaining from the Internet information to augment the chat content such as maps third party media files user reviews recommendations reservation information etc. and make activity recommendations.

Chat content monitoring module is responsible for monitoring the content of a conversation. For text based chat a language parser can be implemented to parse the text entered by chat participants within the chat window and infer meanings of the conversation. In one embodiment the language parser is able to adapt to and learn the writing habits of the users such as frequently used slang words or acronyms over time. For audio or video based chat a speech recognition module is implemented to convert the spoken words into text and then the language parser is used. Similarly the speech recognition module is able to adapt to and learn the user s speaking habits over time. In addition to monitoring the current ongoing conversation chat content monitoring module may also access locally or remotely cached historical data such as previously saved conversations or previously established user behavior models and infer meanings of the conversation using the historical data. Note that historical data is useful in inferring the meanings of phrases that may have multiple meanings.

Note that intelligent chat assistant is able to access local and remote information that the user may want to keep private. For example intelligent chat assistant might be allowed obtain information from a user s login profile such as gender age birth date home address etc. However the user may want to control what type of information can be used by intelligent chat assistant in assisting the conversation. Privacy control module is responsible for privacy control of personal information released to other chat participants by intelligent chat assistant . In the aforementioned example where a map showing directions to the user s home is automatically presented to chat participants before using the user s home address to search for the map privacy control module determines whether the user has previously authorized the other chat participants to know his home address and allows intelligent chat assistant to use his home address with a third party mapping service based on user adjustable privacy settings. If so the map will be displayed automatically otherwise intelligent chat assistant is precluded from transmitting the user s home address to any third party. Various types of techniques can be used to control privacy. In one embodiment privacy control module can use a rule based system that allows a user to specify privacy rules. For example a user may allow intelligent chat assistant to show directions to his house to his real life friends such as relatives and colleagues while preventing such information from being released to his virtual or online friends.

The information gathering modules such as email information gathering module calendar information gathering module and web information gathering module are responsible for gathering information pertaining to the current conversation. Email information gathering module interfaces with local or web based email applications. In one embodiment email information gathering module can be configured to fetch and present one or more email messages based on the current conversation. For example a user A has sent an email to a user B who was busy and did not respond immediately. To remind user B about the email user A may open a chat window and message user B did you see my email This question is recognized by chat content monitoring module and in response email information gathering module accesses a application programming interface API of the email application running on the local machine of user A obtains the latest email from user A to user B and displays the email inside the chat window. This way instead of switching to his email window to look for the email user B can view the email within the same chat window. In addition to pulling an email message that is related to the chat conversation in some embodiments email information gathering module can also search the inbox of a person s email application in order to extract useful information that can enhance the chat conversation.

Calendar information gathering module interfaces with the user s calendar either a locally stored calendar or web based one to extract scheduling information. When a chat conversation is related to making appointments or scheduling meetings this scheduling information can be automatically presented to chat participants. In one embodiment with appropriate authorization calendar information gathering module can be configured to access multiple users calendars and make recommendations for meeting times and or locations based on information from all available calendars. For example during a group chat users A B and C may want to schedule a face to face meeting in the coming week. In a conventional setting each user would need to manually report his available time slots and all the users collectively determine a time slot that suits everyone. Such a process can be time consuming and cumbersome to users. However in embodiments of the present invention this scheduling task can be automatically performed by intelligent chat assistant . More specifically during the chat chat content monitoring module recognizes the request to schedule a meeting among users A B and C and in response calendar information gathering module accesses the calendars of all three users. In one embodiment calendar information gathering module compares the three calendars and selects time slots when everyone is free. Intelligent chat assistant then presents the selected time slots to all users to allow them to make a final decision.

Web information gathering module interfaces with various web search engines such as Google Search in order to obtain external Internet based information that can be used to enhance the chatting experience of users. For example during a conversation at the lunch hour a user A may ask his colleague user B whether he is interested in going to lunch together. Chat content monitoring module recognizes the request and in response web information gathering module searches the web via a web search engine for restaurants near the office. The search results can be presented in the chat window as clickable links. Users A and B can then discuss their options based on the search results.

In one embodiment web information gathering module is also configured to filter the search results based on various criteria such as current context as well as historical data. For example instead of displaying all restaurants the system may display only those restaurants that have been visited frequently by users A and B or the system may display only those restaurants that have favorable user rating. In a further embodiment web information gathering module may interface with various web based applications such as Google Places or Yelp to make recommendations to users. In addition web information gathering module can be configured to update the gathered information based on the updated chat content. In the previous lunch example if user B responded that he would like to eat Japanese food for lunch web information gathering module will then update its search to limit the search to Japanese restaurants only.

In addition to these three information gathering modules other modules capable of accessing and searching local or remote data resources can also be included as part of intelligent chat assistant . For example a database search module can be included to search a particular database in order to extract information pertaining to the chat. This type of module can be particularly useful in a customer service setting. During a chat session between a customer service representative and a customer the customer may ask a question regarding his monthly phone bill. In a conventional setting the customer service representative asks the customer his account number and then opens a separate window to access the database storing the customer s account information. In embodiments of the present system intelligent chat assistant monitors the conversation observes the account number and then searches the database using the account number and automatically displays the account information within the chat window. Similarly if a customer is inquiring about a particular product intelligent chat assistant can monitor the conversation observe the product name and then automatically pull out information associated with the product. This feature can significantly improve the efficiency and lower the error rate of customer service and as a result increase customer satisfaction level.

Presentation module is responsible for presenting the information gathered by the various information gathering modules to the chat participants. Presentation module can present the gathered information within the same chat window thus allowing the chat participants to view the gathered information without switching windows. In a further embodiment presentation module modifies the size and or format of the gathered data to make it more suitable for displaying inside the chat window. For example the resolution and size of a picture may be adjusted to fit in the chat window. Alternatively presentation module can present the gathered information in a separate window that is better tailored for the information displayed. For example presentation module may initiate a separate browser window that is larger than the chat window to display a map.

In the example shown in during the chat Bob invites John to his home for dinner and John asks directions to Bob s home. This entire conversation is displayed in conversation and information display field . In intelligent chat assistant is running in the background and monitors the chat conversation. As soon as John asks for directions to Bob s house intelligent chat assistant retrieves Bob s home address from Bob s personal record or from stored chat history and issues a search to a third party map service. Optionally intelligent chat assistant may also obtain John s home address from John s machine by for example communicating with the intelligent chat assistant residing on John s machine and perform a door to door driving direction search. As a result conversation and information display field displays a map showing the directions from John s home to Bob s home. Note that the map is automatically displayed by intelligent chat assistant without requiring either Bob or John to open a map application. In a further embodiment other additional information such as traffic weather etc. regarding their dinner appointment may also be displayed by the intelligent chat assistant.

In the examples shown in intelligent chat assistant presents the additional information within the same display window where the chat conversation is displayed. Other configurations are also possible. For example it is possible to display information provided by intelligent chat assistant in a side panel or in a separate window.

If additional data is needed intelligent chat assistant determines whether the chat participants local remote or both are authorized to view the additional data operation . If not the system continues to monitor the chat content. If at least one chat participant is authorized to view the additional data intelligent chat assistant automatically obtains the additional data from various local or remote data sources operation . The data sources include but are not limited to emails calendars enterprise databases and the Internet. Intelligent chat assistant then displays the data within the chat window without the need for the chat participants to explicitly request that data operation . The presented data enhances the experience of the chat participants making it possible for the chat participants to exchange a large amount of information in a short time period.

Intelligent chat system can include instructions which when loaded into memory and executed by processor can cause computer system to perform methods and or processes described in this disclosure. Specifically intelligent chat system may include instructions for monitoring chat content chat content monitoring module . Further intelligent chat system can include instructions for controlling data privacy privacy control module . Intelligent chat system can also include instructions for gathering information information gathering module and instructions for presenting the gathered information presentation module .

Additional data can include any data as input or generated as output by the methods and or processes described in this disclosure. Specifically data can store chat history or archives among chat participants and the additional information gathered by information gathering module . Data may also include privacy settings associated with chat participants.

Note that although this disclosure uses an instant messaging system as an example the scope of the present invention is not limited to the instant messaging system. Other online chat systems may be used including but not limited to online chat rooms web conferring private messaging systems used in social networking websites etc. In addition to being a standalone system the intelligent chat system can also be part of other personal or collaborative data managing systems. In one embodiment the intelligent chat system is part of Zimbra registered trademark of VMware Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. Collaboration Suite.

The data structures and code described in this detailed description are typically stored on a computer readable storage medium which may be any device or medium that can store code and or data for use by a computer system. The computer readable storage medium includes but is not limited to volatile memory non volatile memory magnetic and optical storage devices such as disk drives magnetic tape CDs compact discs DVDs digital versatile discs or digital video discs or other media capable of storing computer readable media now known or later developed.

The methods and processes described in the detailed description section can be embodied as code and or data which can be stored in a computer readable storage medium as described above. When a computer system reads and executes the code and or data stored on the computer readable storage medium the computer system performs the methods and processes embodied as data structures and code and stored within the computer readable storage medium.

The foregoing descriptions of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the forms disclosed. Accordingly many modifications and variations will be apparent to practitioners skilled in the art. Additionally the above disclosure is not intended to limit the present invention. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

