---

title: Method for designating of hosting control for a conference call
abstract: A conference calling system and method for designating of hosting control from a server device. In a conference call session, one of the client devices may be designated as a host device, wherein that host device is permitted to implement hosting functions. In some instances, the required host device may not be available for the scheduled conference call, but may be available prior to the conference call. The host device may provide hosting control commands to the server device prior to the conference call. Such hosting control commands may include such commands as delegating of hosting control functions in relation to the designated host device. This may allow the presently designated host device to end communications with the server device prior to starting a conference call, while having the server device implement the specific hosting control commands.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055127&OS=09055127&RS=09055127
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09055127
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130725
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 646 493 filed on Dec. 23 2009 titled Method for Designating of Hosting Control for a Conference Call the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Example embodiments relate to conference call systems and methods and in particular to designating of hosting control in relation to a conference call.

During a conference call voice communication connections are typically made between communication devices such as telephones or mobile phones. In some systems one member of the conference call is often designated as the host. The host may be a user who schedules and hosts a conference call session and may implement additional in call hosting functions within the conference call.

In some existing conferencing systems the conference call may not start or proceed without the presence of the host. When a conference call is desired to be made between communication devices in some instances the required host may not be available for the scheduled conference call. This may prevent the scheduled conference call from being established between the communication devices.

Other difficulties with existing teleconferencing systems will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description below.

In a conference call a host may be permitted to perform various hosting functions such as roll call mute all conference lock etc. In some existing conference call systems a conference call may not start or proceed without the presence of the host. If the host is unavailable each of the client devices may contact a conference server and be waiting for the host to connect so that the conference call may begin. In such instances the client devices may be unaware of the status of the conference call whether it has been cancelled delayed etc. This may waste network resources especially in a mobile network where unnecessary connections result in additional costs and network usage.

Example embodiments described herein relate to conference call systems and methods. In example embodiments a conference call server device designates one of the client devices as a host device for permitting implementation of hosting functions from the host device. In some instances the designated host device may not be available for the scheduled conference call but may be available prior to the conference call. In example embodiments the designated host device may be permitted to provide hosting control commands to the server device prior to the conference call. The hosting control commands may include such commands as delegating of hosting control functions. Such hosting control commands of present embodiments should not be confused with the aforementioned hosting functions for roll call mute all conference lock etc. Present examples of hosting control functions relate to the designating associating de associating and or transferring of hosting control. Should the designated host device be unavailable for the scheduled conference call the host device may have the server device implement the specific hosting control command while terminating its own communications with the server device prior to the start of the conference call.

In some example embodiments such a system may assist in allowing a scheduled conference call session to start or continue without the presence of designated host device while having the server device implement the specific hosting control command. Other aspects will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments relate to the control and management of conference call communications. Although reference may be made to calls and talk in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. Reference to calls may for example include voice calls as well as media sessions which may for example include video and or audio.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped with communications modules for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and data communications. WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The mobile devices may be various types of communication devices. Such mobile devices may include Class A devices which are able to function continuously as dual mode devices capable of both media and data communications. Mobile devices may also include non Class A devices which may function as dual mode devices for initialization or prior to connection with the enterprise communications platform but may lose data functionality once a media session e.g. voice call is established. The enterprise network may also include additional client devices which are voice only or media only devices which may be digital or analog for communication with the PSTN and which may not have data capabilities herein referred to as voice only or media only devices . In other embodiments the mobile devices may include any suitable client device configured with the communications functionality described herein and may for example include computer devices relays proxies gateways and any appropriate User Agents as defined in SIP .

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response IVR call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . illustrates an embodiment intended for use in a circuit switched TDM context. The PBX is coupled to the SMP via PRI connection or other suitable digital trunk. In some embodiments the PRI connection may include a first PRI connection a second PRI connection and a channel service unit CSU wherein the CSU is a mechanism for connecting computing devices to digital mediums in a manner that allows for the retiming and regeneration of incoming signals. It will be appreciated that there may be additional or alternative connections between the PBX and the SMP .

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing HMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

Although SIP may be utilized it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . SIP is defined in J. Rosenberg et al. RFC 3261 Session Initiation Protocol June 2002 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Example conference call systems and methods in accordance with example embodiments will now be described referring now to which shows the system when used or configured as a conference call system. As shown the enterprise communications platform includes the conference server for providing conference call services for a number of client device such as mobile devices illustrated as one designated host device or at least presently designated and one or more participant devices . One of the mobile devices may also be designated as an alternative host device which may also function as a participant device . The mobile devices may collectively form a conference call group. The host device is generally the mobile device or associated user who schedules and hosts a conference call session and may for example be permitted to perform such hosting functions as roll call mute all conference lock etc. The host device may further be permitted to implement additional pre conference or in call hosting control functions in accordance with example embodiments. In some conventional conferencing systems a conference call session cannot proceed between the participants without the host device being in communication with the enterprise communications platform .

The enterprise communications platform and the associated conference server may be used for generally executing conference call functions and for designating of hosting control as is described in detail herein. The conference server may also store among other items a host identifier for identifying or designating at least one of the mobile devices as a host device e.g. designated host device and or alternate host device . The host identifier also includes a permission right or an access right given to the identified mobile devices for permitting implementation of hosting functions from the mobile device . The host identifier may also be used to permit partial access rights apportioned between different mobile devices as appropriate. As described above in example embodiments the enterprise communications platform may include or be coupled to the media server wherein the enterprise communications platform controls the media handling and media sessions of the media server .

Referring still to in order to implement some of the hosting control functions described herein the enterprise communications platform may communicate with the mobile devices by way of media sessions and or control sessions. As shown in the mobile devices communicates via media sessions and control sessions shown as dashed lines to distinguish from the media sessions . For example the designated host device communicates via media session and control session . Alternate host device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . In some embodiments as shown the participant device may merely communicate via media session without an associated control session .

The media sessions may be facilitated by the enterprise communications platform by way of Real time Transport Protocol RTP media sessions and may include voice calls video calls circuit switched calls or VoIP calls. In order to generate or establish a conference call session the enterprise communications platform connects or links at least some of the call legs of each media session . The particular methods and processes for connecting of media sessions into a conference call session would be understood by those skilled in the art which may for example be implemented by media shuffling etc.

In some example embodiments referring now to the control sessions the type of control session generated by the enterprise communications platform may be dependent on the type of mobile device for example including but not limited to Class A devices non Class A devices and media only devices. If the mobile device is a Class A device the control session may for example be established using data based communications. Such data based communications includes data messages SIP based implementations e mail short message service SMS text messaging etc. If the mobile device is a media only device the enterprise communications platform may establish the control session by for example using interactive voice response IVR which for example receives commands from the mobile device by using both voice commands and touch tone e.g. Dual tone multi frequency DTMF . In such an instance the control session is established by merely establishing the media session with the mobile device e.g. by calling the mobile device and thereafter communicating using IVR commands. If the mobile device is a non Class A device the control session s may be first generated using data based messaging and subsequently once a media session is established using IVR. The particular capabilities of each mobile device may be detected by the enterprise communications platform upon initial communication with each mobile device as is known in the art. Alternatively the capabilities may be preconfigured within the enterprise communications platform prior to establishment of a conference call session. Communications are subsequently made via the appropriate communications platform or format within the enterprise communications platform .

Reference is now made to which shows a user interface which may be used as a user input for providing hosting control functions shown as displayed on a display of one of the mobile devices e.g. the designated host device . In the embodiment shown the user interface is for example implemented by a conference call application resident on the mobile device for specifically communicating with the enterprise communications platform . The user interface may form part of a conference call session initialization process.

The user interface relates to a schedule conference call session which is to occur at a scheduled time and date. For example the time and date of the schedule conference call session may be stored within the conference call application or a calendar application. In some embodiments the originating device which schedules the conference call session becomes the host device . In other embodiments the enterprise communications platform sends a message to the specified device which is to be designated as the host device . The user interface may be displayed on the host device based on a triggering event such as at a predetermined time period prior to the starting time of the scheduled conference call session for example five minutes ten minutes or thirty minutes prior. Further alerts such as ringing or vibrating may be effected concurrently on the host device upon occurrence of the triggering event. The user interface may also be manually triggered by launching and subsequently operating the conference call application for example at any time prior to the schedule conference call session.

In some embodiments upon detection of the triggering event the host device may concurrently initiate the control session for example by the host device initially sending a SIP INVITE command to the enterprise communications platform . In other embodiments the host device waits until a specific control hosting command is input into the user interface prior to initiating the control session . Specific implementations are described in detail below.

In other embodiments the user interface is for example displayed on the host device based on an initial contact from the enterprise communications platform to the host device for example based on a triggering event detected or provided at the enterprise communications platform . For example the triggering event may once again be a predetermined time period prior to the starting time of the scheduled conference call session in this instance initiated by the enterprise communications platform . In such an embodiment the mobile device upon receiving of communications from the enterprise communications platform causes the user interface to pop up or interrupt any current application running on the host device

Other triggering events may be effected in some embodiments. For example the host device may trigger the user interface upon the actual occurrence of the time and date of the schedule conference call session. In another example referring briefly to for example the triggering event may be when the enterprise communications platform receives a dial in i.e. control session or media session from a specified or predetermined one of the other participant devices . In another example the triggering event is the first occurrence of receiving a dial in from any of such participant devices wherein the participant device is expecting to be joined into the conference call. After receiving such a triggering event the enterprise communications platform concurrently or soon after initiates the control session with the host device to effect launching the user interface .

As shown in the user interface includes a title bar a status icon an options icon hosting control menu and participant icons partially shown which represent the status of each participant in the conference call. A cursor is also shown for indicating which item s on the user interface are to be selected. The status icon displays the present status of the conference call for example Initializing CC Conference Call as shown in which indicates that the host device is presently engaging in the conference call session initialization process.

The hosting control menu includes a list or number of hosting control functions or commands in accordance with some example embodiments. At least some of the hosting control functions include the enterprise communications platform associating de associating or transferring of the host identifier with or between one or more of the mobile devices . Referring still to the hosting control menu includes a list of hosting control commands which includes Accept Decline Defer wait 5 minutes Delegate and Start without me . Some or all of the hosting control functions may be displayed on the hosting control menu depending on the particular application or current state of the schedule conference call.

Generally as part of the conference call session initialization process the enterprise communications platform communicates with the designated host device and for example associates the host identifier with the host device . If the host device selects Accept the host device remains the designated host for the conference call and the conference call session begins for example by having the enterprise communications platform contact the remaining mobile devices i.e. participants or having the mobile devices call into the enterprise communications platform .

If the host device selects Decline for example the remaining mobile devices e.g. participants are notified that the scheduled conference call has been cancelled. The notification may be made by phone call data message email etc.

If the host device selects Defer wait 5 minutes the enterprise communications platform terminates communication with the host device and may contact the remaining mobile devices and for example place them on hold with music for a predetermined amount of time e.g. five minutes . After five minutes the enterprise communications platform once again communicates with the designated host device and awaits the same hosting control commands of hosting control menu . In other embodiments the remaining mobile devices may be initially contacted by the enterprise communications platform and may select an option not shown to be called back when the host device returns and thereafter proceed with the conference call e.g. by the host device selecting Accept Start without me etc. .

If the host device selects Delegate the enterprise communications platform is instructed to delegate assignment of the host identifier to an alternate host e.g. alternate host device . The choice of alternate host device may be selected by way of an address or identifier such as a telephone number unique identifier personal information number PIN etc. In other example embodiments there is a default or predetermined mobile device which is considered the alternate host device . The enterprise communications platform contacts the alternate host device which becomes the present host device and the alternate host device may then be provided with the same host control option menu . In some embodiments partial host control may be delegated to the alternate host device while some host control is maintained in the designated host device .

If the host device selects Start without me a conference call session is established with the remaining participant devices while the host device leaves the scheduled conference call session. When the host device returns the host device becomes the designated host device for the conference call session.

Reference is now made to which shows the user interface as displayed on the host device when a conference call session is active. Thus the status icon displays CC Active as shown. Further selection of the icon results in the user interface displaying an options menu . The options menu displays a number of in conference options relating to conference call session at issue and for example may be used to implement such corresponding functions as Help View CC History Hang Up and Mute . Such functions would be understood by those skilled in the art and not described in detail herein.

The options menu also includes a sub menu not shown for hosting functions . The sub menu now shown which is displayed after selection of hosting functions for example includes but is not limited to such conventional hosting commands as toggling entry and exit announcement participant count conference continuation server dial out add participants roll call mute all conference lock etc. Such commands may be conventional hosting functions as would be understood by those skilled in the art and not described in detail herein.

As can be appreciated the hosting control commands of present embodiments should therefore not be confused with the aforementioned conventional hosting functions. Present examples of hosting control functions relate to the designating associating de associating and or transferring of hosting control which allows the presently designated host device may implement such hosting functions.

The hosting control sub menu may be displayed as a consequence of selecting of the hosting control icon . As shown the hosting control sub menu includes the hosting control functions for Decline Defer wait 5 minutes Delegate and Continue without me . Such functions may operate in a similar manner as those hosting control commands described above with respect to the hosting control menu .

Referring still to the selection of hosting control options is not limited to being implemented by a specific application resident on the mobile device . In other example embodiments the specific hosting control options and corresponding hosting control commands of the hosting control menu may be communicated in real time by communication of data messages from the enterprise communications platform e.g. SIP e mail SMS etc. . In other embodiments for media only devices the hosting control options are communicated to the mobile device using IVR over a media session.

Specific implementations of such hosting control commands in accordance with some example embodiments will now be described referring now to . show example conversations for implementing each of the above mentioned hosting control functions from hosting control menu respectively when at an initializing process for a scheduled conference call session. shows an example conversation for implementing the in call Delegate command for example during an active conference call session.

Reference is now made to which shows an example conversation between the enterprise communications platform the designated host device and a participant device illustrating operation of the Accept hosting control command . Generally the Accept command instructs the enterprise communications platform to begin a scheduled conference call session. Prior to the scheduled conference call session the enterprise communications platform may be pre configured with the contact information of the designated host device and each of the participant devices e.g. . The enterprise communications platform may also have the host identifier associated with the host device . The initial communication may for example originate and be initiated from the enterprise communications platform which may also be referred to as a mobile terminated server initiated call sequence or sometimes simply server dial out .

As shown in at message the enterprise communications platform sends an invite message to the host device indicating that a conference call session is to begin and that the host device has been designated at least initially as the host device for the conference call session. At message the host device accepts the invite message . Messages and may also include provisioning of media parameters for example for establishing a subsequent media session. Messages and may also include identification or authentication information for example using a password or SIM Subscriber Identity Module for authenticating the host device . At message the enterprise communications platform may send or provision hosting control options to the host device . This may for example be in the form of a data message or an IVR communication as discussed above. The hosting control commands are for example those commands described above in hosting control menu . Sending of the message may not be required in those above described mobile devices which include a conference call specific application resident on the mobile device for example which are pre configured to display and provide the hosting control options on the user interface .

At message the host device selects the desired hosting control command and in this example sends the message including the Accept hosting control command to the enterprise communications platform . Upon receipt of the Accept command the enterprise communications platform initiates a media session with the host device . The enterprise communications platform further initiates another media session with the participant device and connects the media sessions together in a conference call session as would be readily implemented by those skilled in the art .

Reference is now made to which shows an example conversation between the enterprise communications platform the designated host device and a participant device illustrating operation of the Decline hosting control command . Generally the Decline command instructs the enterprise communications platform that the scheduled conference call is not to proceed and that the enterprise communications platform is to notify the remaining mobile devices e.g. participant device as shown that the scheduled conference call has been cancelled. The initial messages are similar to those described above with respect to the conversation . Thus at message the enterprise communications platform sends an invite to the designated host device at message the host device accepts and at message the enterprise communications platform may send hosting control options to the host device

Still referring to at message the designated host device sends a Decline hosting control command to the enterprise communications platform . In response at message the enterprise communications platform terminates the present session with the host device . In some embodiments at message the host device accepts the termination of the session.

The enterprise communications platform thereafter or concurrently proceeds to communicate with the participant device to advise that the host device has declined and that the scheduled conference call session will end i.e. has never started . At messages and the enterprise communications platform initiates a session control session or media session as appropriate with the participant device . The enterprise communications platform thereafter sends termination message which includes a termination notification that the schedule conference call session is terminated for example will not be taking place. Such a termination message may be a data message over a control session or an audio notification over a media session. At message the participant device may accept the termination message .

Reference is now made to which shows an example conversation between the enterprise communications platform the designated host device and a participant device illustrating operation of the Defer wait 5 minutes hosting control command . Generally the Defer command instructs the enterprise communications platform to terminate the present control session with the host device for example because the host device will not be available for a predetermined amount of time. Further the enterprise communications platform thereafter may contact the remaining participant device notify the participant device that the scheduled conference call session is being deferred and for example place the participant device on hold for the predetermined amount of time e.g. 5 minutes . After 5 minutes the enterprise communications platform once again communicates with the designated host device and awaits for another hosting control command.

The initial messages are similar to those described above with respect to the conversation . Thus at message the enterprise communications platform sends an invite to the designated host device at message the host device accepts and at message the enterprise communications platform may send hosting control options to the host device

At message the designated host device sends a Defer wait 5 minutes hosting control command to the enterprise communications platform . At message the enterprise communications platform terminates communication with the host device which may be accepted at message .

When implementing the Defer command the enterprise communications platform initiates a session for example a media session with the participant device . At the enterprise communications platform notifies via a media message or a data message that the conference call session has been deferred and may proceed within 5 minutes. At the enterprise communications platform places the participant device on hold for the predetermined duration of time.

In other embodiments in the alternative to messages and rather than being placed on hold the participant devices may be provisioned with or given an option not shown to be called back when the host device returns and therefore a media session is established once the host device initiates the conference call session e.g. by the host device selecting Accept Start without me etc. . It can be appreciated that this may prevent wasted connection time over a communication network.

At the enterprise communications platform waits for the predetermined period of time to pass for example 5 minutes. After 5 minutes has passed the enterprise communications platform may once again establish a control session with the host device as shown by invite message and accept message . At message the host device may once again send one of the hosting control commands to the enterprise communications platform for example the Accept command as shown in . A conference call session may thus be established by way of media session and media session which are connected by way of conference call session .

Reference is now made to which shows an example conversation between the enterprise communications platform the designated host device the alternate host device and a participant device illustrating operation of the Delegate hosting control command . Generally the Delegate command instructs the enterprise communications platform to delegate assignment of the host identifier to the alternate host device . This for example allows the designated host device to delegate hosting functions to the alternate host device for example should the host device be unavailable for the conference call session. The initial messages are similar to those described above with respect to the conversation . Thus at message the enterprise communications platform sends an invite to the designated host device at message the host device accepts and at message the enterprise communications platform may send hosting control options to the host device

At message the designated host device sends a Delegate hosting control command to the enterprise communications platform . The choice of alternate host device may be selected by way of an address or identifier such as a telephone number unique identifier etc. In other example embodiments there is a default or predetermined mobile device which is considered the alternate host device . At message the enterprise communications platform terminates communication with the host device which may be accepted at message . At this stage the hosting identifier stored within the enterprise communications platform may no longer be associated i.e. de associated or undesignates with the designated host device

The enterprise communications platform may thereafter establish a control session with the alternate host device by sending an invite at message and which is accepted at message . The enterprise communications platform thereafter associates the hosting identifier with the alternate host device . At message the enterprise communications platform may send the same or similar hosting control options to the alternate host device similar to message described in detail above. At message the alternate host device may send one of the hosting control commands to the enterprise communications platform for example the Accept command as shown in . A conference call session may thus be established by way of media session and media session which are connected by the enterprise communications platform by way of conference call session . Of course the designated host device may become a participant device within this conference call session .

Reference is now made to which shows an example conversation between the enterprise communications platform the designated host device participant device and participant device illustrating operation of the Start without me hosting control command . Generally the Start without me command establishes a conference call session with the remaining participant devices while the host device leaves the scheduled conference call session. When the host device returns to the active conference call session the host device becomes the designated host device for the conference call session. The initial messages are similar to those described above with respect to the conversation . Thus at message the enterprise communications platform sends an invite to the designated host device at message the host device accepts and at message the enterprise communications platform may send hosting control options to the host device

At message the designated host device sends a Start without me hosting control command to the enterprise communications platform . In response at message the enterprise communications platform terminates communication with the host device which may be accepted at message . A conference call session may thus be established without the host device by linking media session and media session which are connected by the enterprise communications platform in a conference call session . It can be appreciated that the host identifier is maintained in association with the host device at this stage. This for example allows the host device to subsequently join the conference call session as the designated host device.

Reference is now made to which shows an example conversation between the enterprise communications platform the designated host device the alternate host device and a participant device illustrating operation of the in call Delegate hosting control command . The conversation for example occurs during an existing conference call session with connected media sessions between the devices . Such an in call conversation is illustrated by dashed timelines in . For example the conference call session includes the host identifier already being associated or maintained with the designated host device . It can be appreciated that the Delegate command may permit a designated host device to transfer hosting control to the alternate host device for example when the designated host device desires to leave the conference call session while still having a host device.

At message the designated host device sends a Delegate hosting control command to the enterprise communications platform . In response the hosting identifier stored within the enterprise communications platform may no longer be associated i.e. de associated or undesignated with the designated host device . The enterprise communications platform then establishes a control session with the alternate host device or uses an existing control session if one exists as illustrated by invite message and accept message . The enterprise communications platform thereafter associates the hosting identifier with the alternate host device . At message the enterprise communications platform may send hosting control options to the alternate host device in a similar manner as discussed in detail above. At this stage the alternate host device becomes the host device for the existing conference call session . In other embodiments the alternate host device includes a resident application for implementing some of the hosting control commands e.g. as illustrated by user interface .

Variations of the above example conversations may be used. While some of the above example conversations have been described as occurring in a particular order it will be appreciated to persons skilled in the art that some of the messages or steps or processes may be performed in a different order provided that the result of the changed order of any given step will not prevent or impair the occurrence of subsequent steps. Furthermore some of the messages or steps described above may be removed or combined in other embodiments and some of the messages or steps described above may be separated into a number of sub messages or sub steps in other embodiments. Even further some or all of the steps of the conversations may be repeated as necessary.

Some of the above example conversations may be referred to as a mobile terminated server initiated call sequence and may sometimes also be referred to as server dial out . Alternatively depending on the particular application some or all of the call sequences could be mobile originated mobile initiated mobile originated server initiated or mobile terminated mobile initiated as would be understood by those skilled in the art.

In one aspect there is provided a method for controlling a conference call session using a first client device wherein a server device is configured to establish conference call sessions with the first client device and one or more other client devices and wherein the server device stores a host identifier for designating the first client device as a host for the conference call session. The method includes displaying a user interface on the first client device the user interface including hosting control command options including a delegate command receiving a hosting control command selecting the delegate command and sending a delegate instruction to the server device instructing the server device to change the host identifier to designate one of the other client devices as the host for the conference call session.

In another aspect there is provided a client device which includes a communications module for communicating with a server device the server device being configured to establish a conference call session with the client device and one or more other client devices and wherein the server device stores a host identifier for designating the client device as a host for the conference call session. The client device further includes a user interface including hosting control command options including a delegate command. The client device is configured for in response to the receiving a hosting control command selecting the delegate command sending a delegate instruction to the server device instructing the server device to change the host identifier to designate one of the other client devices as the host for the conference call session.

Certain adaptations and modifications of the described embodiments can be made. Therefore the above discussed embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

