---

title: Triazolothienopyrimidine compound inhibitors of urea transporters and methods of using inhibitors
abstract: Provided herein are small molecule triazolothienopyrimidine compounds that inhibit urea transport activity of solute transporters, particularly the UT-B transporter. The compounds described herein are useful for increasing solute clearance in states of fluid overload and for treating refractory edema associated with cardiovascular, renal, and metabolic diseases, disorders, and conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09303042&OS=09303042&RS=09303042
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 09303042
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130327
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 616 343 filed Mar. 27 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 798 150 filed Mar. 15 2013 which applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. DK35124 DK72517 DK86125 EB00415 HL73856 and EY13574 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Agents that inhibit urea transport activity are needed as therapeutic agents for increasing solute clearance in states of fluid overload and for treating diseases and conditions such as hypertension. Agents that inhibit urea transporters and methods for using these agents are described herein.

Urea is generated by the liver as the major end product of nitrogen metabolism released into the blood and excreted by the kidneys. The processing of urea by the kidney is complex involving countercurrent multiplication and exchange mechanisms that greatly increase urea concentration in the renal medulla compared to serum. In the maximally concentrating antidiuretic kidney urea concentration in the urine can reach 1000 mM in mammals see e.g. Bankir et al. Urea and the kidney In 6th ed. edited by Brenner B M Philadelphia WB Saunders 2000 637 679 Sands et al. 29 178 95 2009 much greater than the serum urea concentration of 4 10 mM. The renal countercurrent mechanisms involve intrarenal urea recycling facilitated by urea transporters UTs expressed in renal tubule epithelial cells UT A encoded by the SLc14A2 gene and renal vasa recta microvessels UT B encoded by the SLc14A1 gene see e.g. Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Sands 13 525 32 2004 Shayakul et al. 447 603 609 2004 Stewart 2011 Mar. 30 doi 10.1111 j.1476 5381.2011.01377.x Epub ahead of print Tsukaguchi et al. 99 1506 15 1997. Phenotype analysis of knockout mice lacking UT B see e.g. Bankir et al. 286 F144 F151 2004 Yang et al. 277 10633 37 2002 or various UT A isoforms see e.g. Fenton et al. 101 7469 74 2004 Fenton et al. 16 1583 92 2005 Uchida et al. 25 7357 63 2005 has provided evidence for the involvement of UTs in the urinary concentrating mechanism subject to the caveat that gene knockout may produce off target effects such as compensatory changes in the expression of non UT transport proteins see e.g. Fenton 17 513 18 2008 Klein et al. 15 1161 67 2004 . Though UT function has been studied mainly in kidney UTs are also expressed in erythrocytes testis brain heart and urinary bladder see e.g. Doran et al. 290 R1446 R1459 2006 where their physiological functions are not clear.

Phenotype analysis of mice separately lacking vasa recta UT B or inner medullary collecting duct UT A1 3 implicated UT involvement in the formation of concentrated urine and in renal urea clearance see e.g. Yang et al. 277 10633 37 2002 Fenton et al. 101 7469 74 2004 Fenton et al. 16 1583 92 2005 . The UT B knock out mice that were generated manifested a urea selective urinary concentrating defect associated with urinary hypoosmolality and increased renal urea clearance Yang et al. supra . UT B is also expressed outside of the kidney most notably and in highest abundance in red blood cell RBC membranes. Loss of function human UT B mutations result in greatly reduced urea permeability in RBC and a mild urinary concentrating defect Sands et al. 2 1689 96 1992 Lucien et al. 273 12973 80 1998 .

Diuretics are administered widely in humans to increase renal salt and water clearance in a variety of conditions that are associated with total body fluid overload such as congestive heart failure and cirrhosis as well in normovolemic states such as hypertension and syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone SIADH . Most diuretics are inhibitors of salt absorption by kidney tubules such as a furosemide block of Na K 2Cl co transport in the thick ascending limb of Henle and a thiazide block of Na Cl co transport in the distal tubule. Recently a new type of diuretic called an aquaretic has been developed to increase renal water clearance in hyponatremia associated with fluid overload or SIADH see e.g. Goldsmith 95 14B 23B 2005 Miller 54 345 53 2006 . Vasopressin 2 receptor V2R antagonist aquaretics have been approved for clinical use in some countries though not yet in the United States and aquaporin inhibitor aquaretics are under development.

Functional studies in knock out mice indicate a critical role for urea transporters UTs in the urinary concentrating mechanism and in renal urea clearance. However potent and specific urea transport blockers have not been available. Accordingly a third type of diuretic is needed one that targets renal urea clearance mechanisms. Because urea is of at least equal importance to NaCl in the renal countercurrent mechanism for urinary concentration see e.g. Bankir et al. supra Masilamani et al. In 6 Brenner ed. Philadelphia Pa. WB Saunders Company pages 595 35 2000 such diuretics are needed for increasing solute clearance in states of fluid overload hypertension and may also be useful in prolonging dialysis free survival in chronic renal insufficiency.

Urea transporter inhibitors identified to date have included non selective membrane intercalating agents urea analogs with insufficient potency and specific urea transporter inhibitors with lower than desired potency. A need exists in the medical art for compounds that inhibit urea transporter and that exhibit nanomolar potency for increasing solute clearance and free water excretion in states of fluid overload hypertension and chronic renal insufficiency.

Provided herein are triazolothienopyrimidine compounds that inhibit the urea transport activity of urea transporters such as urea transporter B UT B and thereby reduce urine concentration in a host receiving the compound. Compositions comprising these compounds and methods and uses for these compounds are also provided. Provided herein are the following embodiments.

A method for treating a disease or disorder treatable by inhibiting transport of urea in a subject said method comprising administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a compound of structure I 

or a single stereoisomer a mixture of stereoisomers tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted aralkyl or optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl or

Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form an optionally substituted N heterocycle or optionally substituted N heteroaryl.

The method of Embodiment 1 wherein Ris optionally substituted phenyl and the compound has a structure of structure II 

Ris optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl or optionally substituted heterocyclyl or OR and

The method of Embodiment 2 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain each Rand Rare independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 3 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 4 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is CH Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 5 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is CH Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris C R R R ORor halo Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl Ris alkyl or haloalkyl Rand Rare each independently halo or alkyl and Ris alkyl halo or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 3 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted furanyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 10 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is CH Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted furanyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 2 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain each Rand Rare independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris OR and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 2 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted aryl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 2 wherein n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted heterocyclyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 1 wherein Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl Ris N R R each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris hydrogen or alkyl and Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted aralkyl or optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 20 wherein Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl Ris N R R each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris hydrogen or alkyl and Ris optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl.

The method of Embodiment 21 wherein Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl Ris N R R each Rand Rare independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris hydrogen or alkyl and Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl.

The method of any one of Embodiments 1 23 wherein the disease or disorder treatable by inhibiting transport of urea is selected from a refractory edema associated with cirrhosis nephritic syndrome acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency hypertension or congestive heart failure b syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH c azotemia e fluid retention and f abnormal uresis.

or a single stereoisomer a mixture of stereoisomers tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

Ris optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl or optionally substituted heterocyclyl or OR 

wherein when Y is CH CH and Ris isopropyl at the position para to the linking carbon Ris not furanyl or thiophenyl and when Y is CH CH and Ris Br at the position para to the linking carbon Ris not thiophenyl.

The compound of Embodiment 28 wherein the compound is 3 4 1 1 difluoro ethyl benzenesulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl thiophen 2 ylmethyl amine 

The compound of Embodiment 31 wherein the compound is 3 thiophene 2 sulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl thiophen 2 ylmethyl amine.

A pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound of any one of Embodiments 26 32 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

A method for treating a disease or disorder treatable by inhibiting transport of urea in a subject the method comprising administering to the subject the pharmaceutical composition of Embodiment 33.

The method of Embodiment 34 wherein the disease or disorder is selected from a refractory edema associated with cirrhosis nephritic syndrome acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency hypertension or congestive heart failure b syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH c azotemia e fluid retention and f abnormal uresis.

In other embodiments provided herein is a use of a compound of any one of structures I II and III as described above and herein for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease or disorder treatable by inhibiting transport of urea wherein the disease or disorder is selected from a refractory edema associated with cirrhosis nephritic syndrome acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency hypertension or congestive heart failure b syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH c azotemia e fluid retention and f abnormal uresis.

In still another embodiment provided herein is a compound of any one of structures I II and III as described above and herein for use in treating a disease or disorder treatable by inhibiting transport of urea wherein the disease or disorder is selected from a refractory edema associated with cirrhosis nephritic syndrome acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency hypertension or congestive heart failure b syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH c azotemia e fluid retention and f abnormal uresis.

In still another embodiment use of a compound of any one of structures I II and III as described above and herein is provided herein for treating a disease or disorder treatable by inhibiting transport of urea wherein the disease or disorder is selected from a refractory edema associated with cirrhosis nephritic syndrome acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency hypertension or congestive heart failure b syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH c azotemia e fluid retention and f abnormal uresis.

Also provided herein in another embodiment is a method for inhibiting transport of urea across a cell membrane comprising contacting a cell comprising a urea transporter and a compound having any one of structures I II and III as described above and herein.

In the following description certain specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. However one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring descriptions of the embodiments. Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the specification and claims that follow the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprises and comprising are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to. In addition the term comprising and related terms such as comprise or comprises or having or including is not intended to exclude that in other certain embodiments for example an embodiment of any composition of matter composition method or process or the like described herein may consist of or consist essentially of the described features. Headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not interpret the scope or meaning of the claimed embodiments.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Also as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a compound may refer to one or more compounds or a plurality of such compounds and reference to a cell or the cell includes reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof e.g. plurality of cells known to those skilled in the art and so forth. Similarly reference to a composition includes a plurality of such compositions and refers to one or more compositions unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

When steps of a method are described or claimed and the steps are described as occurring in a particular order the description of a first step occurring or being performed prior to i.e. before a second step has the same meaning if rewritten to state that the second step occurs or is performed subsequent to the first step. The term about when referring to a number or a numerical range means that the number or numerical range referred to is an approximation within experimental variability or within statistical experimental error and thus the number or numerical range may vary between 1 and 15 of the stated number or numerical range. It should also be noted that the term or is generally employed in its sense including and or unless the content clearly dictates otherwise.

As stated above provided herein are compounds compositions and methods for treatment of one or more diseases or disorders treatable by inhibiting transport of a neutrally charged solute such as urea across a cell membrane by a urea transporter UT . The triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein are more potent UT inhibitors than compounds previously described and also exhibit improved metabolic stability.

Diseases disorders or conditions that may be treated according to the methods described herein may be associated with a fluid retention imbalance such as urea clearance insufficiency. Potent specific small molecule inhibitors of urea transporters UTs are described herein that may be used to treat diseases disorders or conditions including but not limited to a refractory edema associated with or caused by a cardiovascular renal or metabolic disease disorder or condition such as cirrhosis nephritic syndrome acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency hypertension and congestive heart failure. In certain other embodiments the disease disorder or condition to be treated is syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH azotemia fluid retention and abnormal uresis. In other certain embodiments at least one of the triazolothienopyrimidines compounds described herein may also be used in combination with a loop diuretic.

Defective urinary concentrating function in UT knockout mice suggests the potential utility of UT inhibitors as urearetics that would impair urinary concentrating function by a mechanism different from that of salt transport blocking diuretics such as furosemide or aquaretics such as V receptor antagonists. As found in mice humans lacking UT B manifest a modest urinary concentrating defect see e.g. Lucien et al. 273 12973 80 1998 Sands et al. 2 1689 96 1992 supporting the potential urearetic efficacy of UT B inhibitors. Previously available UT inhibitors included compounds that are nonspecific and exhibit moderate or low activity such as the non specific membrane intercalating agent phloretin exhibiting activity at 0.5 mM urea analogs such as thiourea methylurea and dimethylurea exhibiting activity at 50 100 mM see e.g. Mayrand et al. supra and chemically modified urea analogs exhibiting irreversible activity at 30 100 M Martial et al. 423 51 58 1993 . By high throughput screening of 50 000 compounds phenylsulfoxyoxozole inhibitors of human UT B were identified that exhibited ICof less than 100 nM see e.g. International Patent Application Publication No. WO 08 061248 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2010 0305105 Levin et al. 21 551 63 2007 . The triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein are more potent UT inhibitors than the phenylsulfoxyoxozole inhibitors and the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds also exhibit improved metabolic stability.

The following triazolothienopyrimidine compounds and pharmaceutical compositions comprising these compounds that are urea transporter inhibitors may be useful for treating diseases disorders and conditions treatable by inhibiting UT e.g. UT B transport of urea.

or a single stereoisomer a mixture of stereoisomers tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted aralkyl or optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl or

Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form an optionally substituted N heterocycle or optionally substituted N heteroaryl.

In certain embodiments with respect to compounds of structure I Ris optionally substituted aryl for example optionally substituted phenyl. In certain specific embodiments phenyl is unsubstituted. In other certain embodiments phenyl is substituted with one or more of alkyl e.g. C Calkyl or C Calkyl halo haloalkyl or ORwherein Ris hydrogen alkyl e.g. C Calkyl or haloalkyl e.g. C Chaloalkyl . In certain embodiments Ris C Calkyl or C Chaloalkyl. In particular embodiments haloalkyl e.g. C Chaloalkyl is a fluoroalkyl. In another embodiment Ris a optionally substituted heteroaryl which in certain specific embodiments may be a 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl that comprises at least one heteroatom wherein the heteroatom is S. In a specific embodiment Ris an optionally substituted thiophenyl. In particular embodiments when aryl or heteroaryl is substituted with at least one alkyl alkyl is C Calkyl e.g. CH CHCH CH CH . In certain embodiments when aryl or heteroaryl is substituted with at least one halo halo is Cl Br or F. In other certain embodiments when aryl or heteroaryl is substituted with one or more haloalkyl haloalkyl is C Chaloalkyl.

In certain embodiments with respect to compounds of structure I at least one of Rand Ris hydrogen H . In particular embodiments Rand Rare each hydrogen. In other particular embodiments Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl halo or C Chaloalkyl.

In other particular embodiments of compounds of structure I Ris hydrogen. In yet other particular embodiments Ris alkyl for example methyl or ethyl.

In certain embodiments of compounds of structure I Ris optionally substituted alkyl e.g. C Calkyl . In particular embodiments Ris optionally substituted C Calkyl. In other certain embodiments Ris optionally substituted cycloalkyl. In other embodiments Ris optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl wherein the hetero atom is O N or S. In particular embodiments Ris optionally substituted aralkyl for example optionally substituted phenylalkyl or naphthylalkyl. In still other embodiments Ris optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl wherein the heteroatom is S O or N. In a more particular embodiment Ris optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered heteroarylalkyl wherein the heteroatom is S or O.

In certain embodiments Ris optionally substituted phenyl and the compound has a structure of structure II 

n is 0 1 2 or 3 X is an alkylene chain Rand Rare each independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl or optionally substituted heterocyclyl or OR and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In certain embodiments at least one of Rand Ris hydrogen H . In particular embodiments Rand Rare each hydrogen. In other particular embodiments Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl halo or C Chalo alkyl.

In yet other specific embodiments with respect to compounds of structure II n is 1 or 2 and each Ris independently alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR. In particular embodiments when at least one Ris alkyl alkyl may be C Calkyl or C Calkyl e.g. CH CHCH CH CH . In other particular embodiments when at least one Ris haloalkyl haloalkyl may be C Chaloalkyl and halo is F Cl or Br e.g. fluoroalkyl chloroalkyl or bromoalkyl . In particular embodiments when at least one Ris haloalkyl haloalkyl is fluoroalkyl. In other particular embodiments when at least one Ris halo halo is F Cl or Br. In other certain embodiments Ris H or C Calkyl e.g. CH CHCH CH CH or C Chaloalkyl which in particular embodiments is a fluoroalkyl. In other particular embodiments Ris C R R R ORor halo wherein Ris alkyl or haloalkyl wherein Rand Rare each halo or alkyl i.e. Rand Rare each independently halo or alkyl and wherein Ris alkyl halo or haloalkyl.

In particular embodiments Ris optionally substituted aryl for example optionally substituted phenyl or optionally substituted naphthyl. In particular embodiments naphthyl is unsubstituted. In certain particular embodiments phenyl is unsubstituted. In other particular embodiments phenyl may be substituted with C Calkyl e.g. CH CHCH CH CH alkoxy e.g. methoxy or halo e.g. F Br or Cl . In other particular embodiments Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl and the heteroatom is S or O. In certain particular embodiments Ris heteroaryl such as optionally substituted thiophenyl or optionally substituted furanyl. In other certain particular embodiments Ris heteroaryl for example unsubstituted thiophenyl or unsubstituted furanyl. In other particular embodiments Ris optionally substituted heterocyclyl wherein the heteroatom is O e.g. tetrahydrofuranyl or S. In still other embodiments Ris OR and Ris hydrogen alkyl e.g. C Calkyl for example CH CHCH CH CH or haloalkyl e.g. C Chaloalkyl and halo is F Br or Cl e.g. fluroalkyl chloroalkyl or bromoalkyl .

In certain embodiments of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In another embodiment of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In yet another embodiment of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is CH Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In still another embodiment of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is CH Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris C R R R ORor halo Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl Ris alkyl or haloalkyl Rand Rare each halo or alkyl i.e. Rand Rare each independently halo or alkyl and Ris alkyl halo or haloalkyl.

In more specific embodiments of the compounds of structure II the compounds is any one of the following 3 4 1 1 difluoro ethyl benzenesulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl thiophen 2 ylmethyl amine see Table 2 compound 3k 

In still other embodiments of structure II Ris alkyl. In specific embodiments the compound is any one of the following compounds 3 4 ethyl benzenesulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl thiophen 2 ylmethyl amine see Table 2 compound 1 

In another embodiment of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted furanyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In still another embodiment of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is CH Rand Rare each hydrogen Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted furanyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In more specific embodiments of structure II the compound is any one of the following furan 2 ylmethyl 3 4 isopropyl benzenesulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl amine see Table 2 compound 3b 

In other embodiments of the compound of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris OR and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In yet other embodiments of the compound of structure II the compound is any one of the following 3 benzenesulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl 3 methoxypropyl amine see Table 1 compound 2ab 

In other embodiments of the compound of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain each Rand Rare independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted aryl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In more specific embodiments of structure II the compound is any one of the following 3 4 isopropyl benzenesulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl 4 methoxy benzyl amine see Table 2 compound 3e 

In another embodiment of a compound of structure II n is 1 or 2 X is a Calkylene chain each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris alkyl halo haloalkyl or OR Ris optionally substituted heterocyclyl and Ris hydrogen alkyl or haloalkyl.

In still more specific embodiments the compound of structure II is any one of the following compounds tetrahydrofuran 2 ylmethyl 3 4 methyl benzenesulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl amine see Table 1 compound 2ae 

In another embodiment of the compound of structure I Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl Ris N R R each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris hydrogen or alkyl and Ris optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted cycloalkyl optionally substituted heterocyclylalkyl optionally substituted aralkyl or optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl.

In yet another embodiment of the compound of structure I Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl Ris N R R each Rand Ris independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris hydrogen or alkyl and Ris optionally substituted heteroarylalkyl.

In still another embodiment of the compound of structure I Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl Ris N R R each Rand Rare independently hydrogen alkyl halo or haloalkyl Ris hydrogen or alkyl and Ris optionally substituted thiophenyl.

In a specific embodiment a compound of structure I is the following 3 thiophene 2 sulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl thiophen 2 ylmethyl amine see Table 2 compound 3g .

In another embodiment a compound of structure III is provided wherein structure III has the following formulae 

or a single stereoisomer a mixture of stereoisomers tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein 

Ris optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl or optionally substituted heterocyclyl or OR 

In certain embodiments X is a Calkylene chain or a Calkylene chain. In a more particular embodiment X is CH .

In certain embodiments at least one of Rand Ris hydrogen H . In particular embodiments Rand Rare each hydrogen. In other particular embodiments Rand Rare each independently hydrogen C Calkyl halo or C Chalo alkyl.

In certain embodiments of a compound of structure III Y is CH CH to form a phenyl and Ris C R R R ORor halo. In certain particular embodiments at least one of Rand Rand Ris alkyl e.g. C Calkyl . In certain particular embodiments each of Rand Rand Ris alkyl e.g. C Calkyl . In other particular embodiments each of Rand Rand Ris methyl. In certain particular embodiments at least one of Rand Rand Ris methyl. In other particular embodiments at least one of Rand Rand is Ris halo i.e. F Cl Br or I for example F . In other particular embodiments at least two of Rand Rand Rare halo e.g. F . In still other particular embodiments each of Rand Rand Ris halo e.g. F . In other particular embodiments Ris halo. In certain particular embodiments Ris F. In other certain embodiments Ris OR and Rmay be C Calkyl e.g. CH CHCH CH CH or C Chaloalkyl which in certain particular embodiments is a fluoroalkyl. In more particular embodiments Ris CH or CF. In other embodiments Y is S.

In certain particular embodiments when Y is CH CH and Ris isopropyl at the position para to the linking carbon i.e. the carbon linking to S Ris not furanyl or thiophenyl. In another more specific embodiment when Y is CH CH and Ris Br at the position para to the linking carbon i e linking to S Ris not thiophenyl.

In particular embodiments of a compound of structure III Y is CH CH and Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl. In particular embodiments the heteroatom of the heteroaryl is S or O.

In a specific embodiment a compound of structure III is any one of the following 3 4 1 1 difluoro ethyl benzenesulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl thiophen 2 ylmethyl amine see Table 2 compound 3k 

In another embodiment of the compound of structure III Y is S and Ris optionally substituted heteroaryl.

In a specific embodiment a compound of structure III is 3 thiophene 2 sulfonyl thieno 2 3 e 1 2 3 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 5 yl thiophen 2 ylmethyl amine see Table 2 compound 3g .

In other embodiments provided herein are pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one of the compounds of structures I II and III described above and herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable i.e. suitable excipient.

In another embodiment methods of using the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds are provided herein. In one embodiment a method is provided for treating a disease disorder or condition that is treatable by inhibiting transport of urea in a subject. This method comprises administering to the subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and at least one of the compounds of structure I II and III described above and herein. In one embodiment the disease disorder or condition to be treated by inhibiting transport of urea is selected from a refractory edema associated with cirrhosis nephritic syndrome acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency hypertension or congestive heart failure b syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH c azotemia e fluid retention and f abnormal uresis. In another specific embodiment the disease disorder or condition to be treated is associated with a fluid retention imbalance in another certain specific embodiment the fluid retention imbalance comprises urea clearance insufficiency. In still another embodiment treating the disease disorder or condition comprises inhibiting the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea. In certain specific embodiments the at least one urea transporter is a UT B transporter.

In other embodiments methods are provided for inhibiting transport of urea across a cell membrane comprising contacting a cell with a composition that comprises at least one of the compounds of structure I II and III including substructures and specific compounds described herein wherein the cell comprises at least one urea transporter. In one embodiment at least one compound described herein inhibits the capability of a UT B transporter to transport urea.

As described herein the aforementioned triazolothienopyrimidine compounds are capable of inhibiting the transport activity a urea transporter e.g. UT B and are therefore useful for treating a disease disorder or condition treatable by inhibiting transport of urea. The compounds described herein are potent inhibitors that selectively and reversibly inhibit urea transport thereby reducing urinary concentration in a subject to whom the compound is administered. These compounds particularly those referred to herein and in Table 2 compounds 3a 3k also have excellent metabolic stability in vivo.

Certain chemical groups named herein are preceded by a shorthand notation indicating the total number of carbon atoms that are to be found in the indicated chemical group. For example C Calkyl describes an alkyl group as defined below having a total of 1 to 6 carbon atoms and C Ccycloalkyl describes a cycloalkyl group as defined below having a total of 3 to 12 carbon atoms. The total number of carbons in the shorthand notation does not include carbons that may exist in substituents of the group described. In addition to the foregoing as used herein unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated.

 Alkyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms which is saturated having from one to six carbon atoms C Calkyl and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. An alkyl radical may also be called herein a lower alkyl which refers to an alkyl radical that has between for example 1 to 6 carbon atoms 1 to 5 carbon atoms C Calkyl or 1 to 3 carbon atoms C Calkyl . Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl and the like while saturated branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl isopentyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Alkylene or alkylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen which is saturated and having from one to twelve carbon atoms e.g. methylene ethylene propylene n butylene ethenylene propenylene n butenylene propynylene n butynylene and the like. The alkylene chain may be attached to the remainder of the molecule and to the radical group through one carbon or any two carbons typically the two terminal carbon atoms within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylene chain may be optionally substituted.

 Alkenylene and alkenylene chain refer to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen containing at least one double bond and having up to 30 carbon atoms preferably having from 2 12 carbons e.g. ethenylene propenylene n butenylene and the like. The alkylene chain links two moieties e.g. the remainder of the molecule and another radical. The alkenylene chain may be attached to the remainder of the molecule and to the radical group through any two carbons typically the two terminal carbon atoms within the chain. Representative straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl propylenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl and the like representative straight chain and branched alkynyls include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl and the like.

 Alkoxy refers to a radical of the formula ORwhere Ris an alkyl or haloalkyl radical as defined above containing one to six carbon atoms. Representative alkoxy groups include methoxy and ethoxy. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkoxy group may be optionally substituted. An alkoxy that is substituted with halo may be called herein a haloalkoxy which includes for example trifluoromethoxy trichloromethoxy and the like.

Acyl refers to a radical C O R wherein R is alkyl aralkyl carbocyclyl aryl heteroaryl or heterocyclyl as defined herein. Where R is methyl the acyl group is also referred to as acetyl.

 Haloalkyl refers to an alkyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above e.g. trifluoromethyl difluoromethyl trichloromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 1 2 difluoroethyl 1 2 dibromoethyl and the like. A fluoroalkyl is a haloalkyl which comprises at least one fluorine substitution. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a haloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Carbocyclyl or carbocycle refers to a stable monocyclic or bicyclic hydrocarbon radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms having from three to fifteen ring carbon atoms preferably having from three to ten ring carbon atoms and which is saturated no double bond or unsaturated having at least one double bond . Carbocyclyl may also be non aromatic or aromatic. Non aromatic carbocyclyl includes e.g. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl decalinyl and the like. Aromatic carbocyclyl is also referred to as aryl as further defined herein. In certain embodiments the carbocycle may be a monovalent radical that is attached to the remainder of the molecule via a single or double bond at any one of the ring carbon atom. In other embodiments the carbocycle may be a bivalent radical that is attached to two radicals e.g. an alkylene chain and an alkyl via single or double bonds at any two of the ring carbon atoms. Unless otherwise stated specifically in the specification the term carbocyclyl is meant to include radicals which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl e.g. a lower alkyl C C C halo hydroxy NRR oxo alkoxy haloalkoxy and wherein Rand Rare each independently hydrogen acyl or alkyl.

 Aryl is a subset of carbocycle and refers to aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic hydrocarbon ring system consisting only of hydrogen and carbon and containing from 6 to 19 carbon atoms where the ring system may be partially or fully saturated. Aryl groups include but are not limited to groups such as fluorenyl phenyl and naphthyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term aryl or the prefix ar such as in aralkyl is meant to include aryl radicals optionally substituted by one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl e.g. C C or Clower alkyl halo hydroxy NRR oxo alkoxy haloalkoxy and wherein Rand Rare each independently hydrogen acyl or alkyl.

 Aralkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene radical as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above. Examples of aralkyl include benzyl diphenylmethyl and the like. The aryl radical s may be optionally substituted as described above.

 Heterocyclyl refers to a stable 3 to 18 membered non aromatic ring radical which consists of carbon atoms and from one to five heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. For purposes of this disclosure the heterocyclyl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heterocyclyl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized and the heterocyclyl radical may be partially or fully saturated. Aromatic heterocycles are also referred to as heteroaryls as further defined herein. Examples of such heterocyclyl radicals include but are not limited to furanyl thienyl i.e. thiophenyl pyrrolyl dioxolanyl decahydroisoquinolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl octahydroindolyl octahydroisoindolyl 2 oxopiperazinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl oxazolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl thiazolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl trithianyl tetrahydropyranyl thiomorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl 1 oxo thiomorpholinyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. In certain embodiments the heterocycle may be a monovalent radical that is attached to the remainder of the molecule via a single or double bond at any one of the ring atom e.g. carbon or nitrogen . In other embodiments the heterocycle may be a bivalent radical that is attached to two radicals e.g. an alkylene chain and an alkyl via single or double bonds at any two of the ring atoms e.g. carbon or nitrogen . Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term heterocyclyl is meant to include heterocyclyl radicals as defined above which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl e.g. C C or Clower alkyl halo hydroxy NRR oxo alkoxy haloalkoxy and wherein Rand Rare each independently hydrogen acyl or alkyl. N heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclyl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heterocyclyl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclyl radical. An N heterocyclyl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for heterocyclyl radicals.

 Heteroaryl is a subset of heterocycle and refers to a 3 to 18 membered aromatic ring radical which consists of carbon atoms and from one to five heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. For purposes of this disclosure the heteroaryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heteroaryl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. Examples include but are not limited to azepinyl acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzthiazolyl benzindolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzonaphthofuranyl benzoxazolyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxinyl benzopyranyl benzopyranonyl benzofuranyl benzofuranonyl benzothienyl benzothiophenyl benzotriazolyl benzo 4 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl carbazolyl cinnolinyl dibenzofuranyl furanyl furanonyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl indolyl indazolyl isoindolyl indolinyl isoindolinyl indolizinyl isoxazolyl naphthyridinyl oxadiazolyl 2 oxoazepinyl oxazolyl oxiranyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl phthalazinyl pteridinyl purinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl quinolinyl quinuclidinyl isoquinolinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl triazinyl and thiophenyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term heteroaryl is meant to include heteroaryl radicals as defined above which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl e.g. C C or Clower alkyl halo hydroxy NRR oxo and C C or Clower alkyl and wherein Rand Rare each independently hydrogen acyl or alkyl. N heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl radical. An N heteroaryl radical may be optionally substituted as described above for heteroaryl radicals.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl alkyl cycloalkyl heterocyclyalkyl aralkyl heteroarylalkyl N heterocycle or N heteraryl thienyl furanyl phenyl and the like means that the aryl radical or heteroaryl alkyl cycloalkyl heterocyclyalkyl aralkyl heteroarylalkyl N heterocycle or N heteraryl thienyl furanyl phenyl and the like may or may not be substituted and that the description includes both substituted radicals and radicals having no substitution i.e. unsubstituted .

The compounds described herein may generally be used as the free acid or free base. Alternatively the compounds may be used in the form of acid or base addition salts. Acid addition salts of the free base amino compounds may be prepared according to methods well known in the art and may be formed from organic and inorganic acids. Suitable organic acids include but are not limited to maleic fumaric benzoic ascorbic succinic methanesulfonic acetic oxalic propionic tartaric salicylic citric gluconic lactic mandelic cinnamic aspartic stearic palmitic glycolic glutamic and benzenesulfonic acids. Suitable inorganic acids include but are not limited to hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric phosphoric and nitric acids. Base addition salts of the free acid compounds of the compounds described herein may also be prepared by methods well known in the art and may be formed from organic and inorganic bases. Suitable inorganic bases included but are not limited to the hydroxide or other salt of sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum and the like and organic bases such as substituted ammonium salts. Thus the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt of compounds of structures I II III and substructures thereof as well as any and all substructures and specific compounds described herein is intended to encompass any and all pharmaceutically suitable salt forms.

Compounds of structures I II III and substructures thereof may sometimes be depicted as an anionic species. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the compounds exist with an equimolar ratio of cation. For instance the compounds described herein can exist in the fully protonated form or in the form of a salt such as sodium potassium ammonium or in combination with any inorganic base as described above. When more than one anionic species is depicted each anionic species may independently exist as either the protonated species or as the salt species. In some specific embodiments the compounds described herein exist as the sodium salt.

Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of any compound described herein may exist as polymorphs which are also included and contemplated by the present disclosure. In addition some of the compounds may form solvates with water or other organic solvents. Often crystallizations produce a solvate of the disclosed compounds. As used herein the term solvate refers to an aggregate that comprises one or more molecules of any of the disclosed compounds with one or more molecules of solvent. The solvent may be water in which case the solvate may be a hydrate. Alternatively the solvent may be an organic solvent. Thus the presently disclosed compounds may exist as a hydrate including a monohydrate dihydrate hemihydrate sesquihydrate trihydrate tetrahydrate and the like as well as the corresponding solvated forms. Certain embodiments of the compounds may be true solvates while in other cases some embodiments of the compounds may merely retain adventitious water or be a mixture of water plus some adventitious solvent.

Specific and analogous reactants may also be identified through the indices of known chemicals prepared by the Chemical Abstract Service of the American Chemical Society which are available in most public and university libraries as well as through on line databases the American Chemical Society Washington D.C. may be contacted for more details . Chemicals that are known but not commercially available in catalogs may be prepared by custom chemical synthesis houses where many of the standard chemical supply houses e.g. those listed above provide custom synthesis services. A reference for the preparation and selection of pharmaceutical salts of the present disclosure is P. H. Stahl C. G. Wermuth Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta Zurich 2002.

With regard to stereoisomers the compounds of structure I II and III as well as any substructure herein may have one or more chiral or asymmetric centers and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S . When the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centers of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers e.g. cis or trans . Likewise unless otherwise specified all possible isomers as well as their racemic and optically pure forms and all tautomeric forms are also intended to be included. It is therefore contemplated that various stereoisomers and mixtures thereof and includes enantiomers which refers to two stereoisomers whose molecules are nonsuperimposeable mirror images of one another. Thus the compounds may occur in any isomeric form including racemates racemic mixtures and as individual enantiomers or diastereomers. A tautomer refers to a proton shift from one atom of a molecule to another atom of the same molecule. Some embodiments of the disclosed compounds include tautomers of any said compounds.

 Prodrug is meant to indicate a compound that may be converted under physiological conditions or by solvolysis to a biologically active compound described herein. Thus the term prodrug refers to a metabolic precursor of a compound described herein that is pharmaceutically acceptable. A prodrug may be inactive when administered to a subject in need thereof but is converted in vivo to an active compound as described herein. Prodrugs are typically rapidly transformed in vivo to yield the parent compound described herein for example by hydrolysis in blood. The prodrug compound often offers advantages of solubility tissue compatibility or delayed release in a mammalian organism see e.g. Bundgard H. Design of Prodrugs 1985 pp. 7 9 21 24 Elsevier Amsterdam . A discussion of prodrugs is provided in Higuchi T. et al. Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems A.C.S. Symposium Series Vol. 14 and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design ed. Edward B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987 both of which are incorporated in full by reference herein.

The term prodrug is also meant to include any covalently bonded carriers which release the active compound as described herein in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a mammalian subject. Prodrugs of a compound described herein may be prepared by modifying functional groups present in the compound described herein in such a way that the modifications are cleaved either in routine manipulation or in vivo to the parent compound described herein. Prodrugs include compounds described herein wherein a hydroxy amino or mercapto group is bonded to any group that when the prodrug of the compound is administered to a mammalian subject cleaves to form a free hydroxy free amino or free mercapto group respectively. Examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to ester and amide derivatives of hydroxy carboxy mercapto or amino functional groups in the compounds described herein and the like.

In general the compounds used in the reactions described herein may be made according to organic synthesis techniques known to those skilled in this art starting from commercially available chemicals and or from compounds described in the chemical literature. Commercially available chemicals may be obtained from standard commercial sources including Acros Organics Pittsburgh Pa. Aldrich Chemical Milwaukee Wis. including Sigma Chemical and Fluka Apin Chemicals Ltd. Milton Park UK Avocado Research Lancashire U.K. BDH Inc. Toronto Canada Bionet Cornwall U.K. Chemservice Inc. West Chester Pa. Crescent Chemical Co. Hauppauge N.Y. Eastman Organic Chemicals Eastman Kodak Company Rochester N.Y. Fisher Scientific Co. Pittsburgh Pa. Fisons Chemicals Leicestershire UK Frontier Scientific Logan Utah ICN Biomedicals Inc. Costa Mesa Calif. Key Organics Cornwall U.K. Lancaster Synthesis Windham N.H. Maybridge Chemical Co. Ltd. Cornwall U.K. Parish Chemical Co. Orem Utah Pfaltz Bauer Inc. Waterbury Conn. Polyorganix Houston Tex. Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. Riedel de Haen AG Hanover Germany Spectrum Quality Product Inc. New Brunswick N.J. TCI America Portland Oreg. Trans World Chemicals Inc. Rockville Md. and Wako Chemicals USA Inc. Richmond Va. .

Methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art may be identified through various reference books and databases. Suitable reference books and treatise that detail the synthesis of reactants useful in the preparation of compounds of the present disclosure or provide references to articles that describe the preparation include for example Synthetic Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons Inc. New York S. R. Sandler et al. Organic Functional Group Preparations 2nd Ed. Academic Press New York 1983 H. O. House Modern Synthetic Reactions 2nd Ed. W. A. Benjamin Inc. Menlo Park Calif. 1972 T. L. Gilchrist Heterocyclic Chemistry 2nd Ed. John Wiley Sons New York 1992 J. March Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Ed. Wiley Interscience New York 1992. Additional suitable reference books and treatise that detail the synthesis of reactants useful in the preparation of compounds of the present disclosure or provide references to articles that describe the preparation include for example Fuhrhop J. and Penzlin G. Organic Synthesis Concepts Methods Starting Materials Second Revised and Enlarged Edition 1994 John Wiley Sons ISBN 3 527 29074 5 Hoffman R. V. Organic Chemistry An Intermediate Text 1996 Oxford University Press ISBN 0 19 509618 5 Larock R. C. Comprehensive Organic Transformations A Guide to Functional Group Preparations 2nd Edition 1999 Wiley VCH ISBN 0 471 19031 4 March J. Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Edition 1992 John Wiley Sons ISBN 0 471 60180 2 Otera J. editor Modern Carbonyl Chemistry 2000 Wiley VCH ISBN 3 527 29871 1 Patai S. Patai s 1992 Guide to the Chemistry of Functional Groups 1992 Interscience ISBN 0 471 93022 9 Quin L. D. et al. A Guide to Organophosphorus Chemistry 2000 Wiley Interscience ISBN 0 471 31824 8 Solomons T. W. G. Organic Chemistry 7th Edition 2000 John Wiley Sons ISBN 0 471 19095 0 Stowell J. C. Intermediate Organic Chemistry 2nd Edition 1993 Wiley Interscience ISBN 0 471 57456 2 Industrial Organic Chemicals Starting Materials and Intermediates An Ullmann s Encyclopedia 1999 John Wiley Sons ISBN 3 527 29645 X in 8 volumes Organic Reactions 1942 2000 John Wiley Sons in over 55 volumes and Chemistry of Functional Groups John Wiley Sons in 73 volumes.

An exemplary triazolothienopyrimidine compound UTB 14 discussed herein has drug like properties including the presence of multiple hydrogen bond acceptors a molecular weight of 455 and computed cLogP of 4.55 and polar surface area of 87 square A see e.g. Ghose et al. 1 55 68 1999 . Other compounds having a triazolothienopyrimidine scaffold were described by Westerlund 17 1765 69 1980 the synthesis of which involved cycloaddition chemistry to generate the core heterocycle. Generation of lactam 5 see was based on this cycloaddition methodology. Recently this general scaffold has been reported to show antagonist activity against 5 HTreceptors in vitro see e.g. Ivachtchenko et al. 18 5282 90 2010 though no pharmacology or in vivo data were reported. The synthesis of triazolthienopyrimidine UTB 14 can be accomplished in five steps with an overall yield of approximately 16 . The synthesis is designed to be modular allowing diversification of the scaffold to improve physico chemical properties. Notably the phosphonium mediated amidine forming conditions previously reported see e.g. Wan et al. 8 2425 28 2006 was unsuccessful. The conditions described herein are adapted to employ microwave irradiation to effect conversion and a workup that gave highly pure UTB 14 by NMR and HPLC criteria.

Synthesis of other triazolothieneopyrimidine compounds described herein may be performed according to the following synthesis procedures and methods.

As shown in General Scheme 1 aryl or heteroaryl sulfonyl acetonitriles 6 may be prepared by reacting a thiol starting material 4 e.g. an appropriately substituted arylthiol or heteroarylthiol with bromoacetonitrile a to provide an intermediate sulfide acetonitrile 5 . The sulfide acetonitrile 5 may thereafter be treated with an oxidizing agent b e.g. mCPBA to provide the sulfonyl acetonitrile compound 6 .

Scheme 1a shows certain exemplary thiol starting materials 4a 4g and more specific exemplary reaction conditions. See also Example 7.

As an alternative to the thiol starting material 4 of General Scheme 1 a brominated starting material 7 may be used. As shown in Scheme 2 a brominated aryl or heteroaryl 7 may be reacted with methyl thioacetate a to provide a sulfide acetate intermediate 8 . Thereafter the sulfide acetate intermediate 8 may be oxidized b to provide a sulfonyl acetate intermediate 9 which may be converted c to a sulfonyl amide 10 . The sulfonyl amide 10 may undergo dehydration d to provide the sulfonyl acetonitrile compound 6 .

In a more specific reaction scheme difluoroethyl aryl sulfonyl acetonitrile building block 6h may be synthesized as illustrated in Scheme 2a. See also Example 7.

General Scheme 3 shows a general approach to preparing azidothiophenyl ester building block 14 . An appropriately substituted 3 Bromothiophene 2 carboxaldehyde 11 is first azidated by nucleophilic aromatic substitution a to generate 3 azidothiophene aldehyde 12 . This aldehyde 12 may be oxidized b to provide a carboxylic acid 13 which may be further alkylated d to provide 2 azidothiophene 1 alkyl ester 14 .

Scheme 3a illustrates an exemplary synthesis process of an azidothiophenyl isobutyl ester building block.

Triazolothienopyrimidine UTB inhibitors may then be synthesized according to the following General Scheme 4. An aryl sulfonyl acetonitrile building block 4 and an azidothiophenyl ester building block 14 may first undergo a 2 3 cycloaddition a to provide a lactam intermediate 15 which may further undergo a dehydrative amidine coupling with an amine R NH b to provide the triazolothienopyrimidine UTB inhibitors 3 .

Scheme 4a. shows exemplary synthetic processes for preparing a number of UTB inhibitors via 2 3 cycloaddition and microwave assisted dehydrative amidine coupling see also Example 9 

Provided herein are methods for using the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds of structure I II III and substructures and specific compounds described herein. As described in detail herein methods are provided for treating a disease disorder or condition treatable by inhibiting transport of a neutrally charged solute e.g. urea in a subject by administering to the subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one of the compounds of structure I II III and substructures and specific compounds described above. In a particular embodiment the compounds and compositions described herein may treat a disease disorder or condition by inhibiting transport of urea by a urea transporter. The compound may specifically inhibit all urea transporters or may interact with and inhibit only one subfamily of urea transporter i.e. either UT A transporters or UT B transporters . In particular embodiments the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein may inhibit at least UT B.

The compounds of the structure I II III and substructures and compounds described herein may be used to alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner transport of urea across a cell membrane by at least one urea transporter. In particular embodiments transport activity of at least one urea transporter is inhibited by a compound of structure I II III and substructures and compounds thus the compounds are capable of preventing blocking or decreasing transport of urea across a cell membrane. Methods are provided for an in vitro assay in which a cell comprising at least one urea transporter is contacted combined mixed or in some manner permitted to interact with a composition comprising at least one triazolothienopyrimidine compound described herein. In one embodiment at least one compound described herein inhibits transport of urea by a UT B transporter. In certain embodiments the cell is a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell or a testis cell. In a particular embodiment the cell is a renal cell. In another particular embodiment the cell is a red blood cell which comprises at least a UT B transporter.

Urea transporters UTs are transmembrane proteins that transport urea across cellular membranes. UTs may be expressed in such tissues as the outer and inner medulla of the kidney erythropoietic tissue testis and hepatocytes. One function of UTs is production of concentrated urea which is critical for retention of water.

The Slc14A1 gene encodes a single UT B isoform see e.g. Sands 13 525 32 2004 Lucien et al. 273 12973 80 1998 284 F3 F10 2003 Sidoux et al. 274 30228 35 1999 see also e.g. Tsukaguchi et al. 99 1506 15 1997 . Five UT A urea transporter isoforms UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5 are encoded by alternatively splicing of the Slc14A2 gene see e.g. Bagnasco et al. 281 F400 F406 2001 Shayakul et al. 447 603 609 2004 Bagnasco 450 217 26 2005 Sands 13 525 32 2004 Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Sands et al. 273 F321 39 1997 Sands 65 543 66 2003 .

In one embodiment methods are provided for altering i.e. increasing or decreasing in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner transport of urea across a cell membrane by a urea transporter in a cell. Such methods comprise contacting i.e. combining mixing or in some manner permitting interaction with the cell and any one or more i.e. at least one of the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds of structure I II III and substructures described herein or a composition comprising at least one or more of such compounds. The compounds described herein are capable of inhibiting transport of urea by at least one urea transporter e.g. a UT B in a cell in vivo i.e. in an animal including a human or in vitro in an assay method for example.

In a specific embodiment a method is provided for inhibiting transport of urea across a cell membrane which method comprises contacting i.e. combining mixing or in some manner permitting interaction with a cell with at least one compounds of the structure I II III and substructures or composition comprising such a compound as described herein wherein the cell comprises at least one urea transporter particularly the UT B transporter. The compounds described herein inhibit i.e. reduce abrogate prevent or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea across a cell membrane. In a particular embodiment the compounds interact with and inhibit a UT B transporter.

Compounds of the structure I II III and substructures inhibit the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea across a cell membrane. In a particular embodiment the transporter is located in the outer cell membrane and is capable of transporting a solute into the cell from the extracellular environment or space influx and out of the cell into the extracellular environment or space efflux .

In a particular embodiment the triazolothienopyrimidine compound inhibits i.e. blocks prevents reduces or decreases in a statistically or biologically significant manner the capability of at least one urea transporter e.g. UT B to transport urea across a cell membrane and thus inhibits urea influx and or efflux. The compound may inhibit the transport activity of the transporter by binding to the transporter such that the compound inhibits transport of urea into the cell from the extracellular space and or the compound may bind to the transporter such that transport of urea out of the cell into the extracellular space is inhibited.

The transporter may be endogenously expressed by the cell i.e. the genome of the cell comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes the transporter which is transcribed into mRNA that is translated . Alternative for example with respect to in vitro assay methods the transporter may be recombinantly expressed in the cell i.e. the cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that directs the expression of the transporter polypeptide .

With respect to assay methods described herein for characterizing a triazolothienopyrimidine compound cells may be obtained or derived from a biological sample. A biological sample as used herein refers in certain embodiments to a sample containing at least one cell or a plurality of cells that endogenously or exogenously expresses at least one urea transporter. A biological sample may be a blood sample such as whole blood or a cellular fraction of whole blood biopsy specimen body fluids that contain cells that express at least one transporter e.g. lung lavage ascites mucosal washings synovial fluid bone marrow lymph nodes tissue explant organ culture or any other tissue or cell preparation from a subject or a biological source. A sample may further refer to a tissue or cell preparation in which the morphological integrity or physical state of the tissue has been disrupted for example by dissection dissociation solubilization fractionation homogenization biochemical or chemical extraction. The subject or biological source may be a human or non human animal a primary cell culture e.g. kidney cells or other cells that endogenously express a transporter or culture adapted cell line including but not limited to genetically engineered cell lines that may contain chromosomally integrated or episomal recombinant nucleic acid sequences immortalized or immortalizable cell lines somatic cell hybrid cell lines differentiated or differentiatable cell lines transformed cell lines and the like.

The cells comprising a urea transporter that is inhibited by the compounds and compositions described herein include cells that endogenously express a urea transporter polypeptide. Exemplary cells that endogenously express a urea transporter include but are not limited to a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell a liver cell or a testis cell. Transport of urea by urea transporters and transport of water by aquaporins are opposing processes in such cells. An exemplary cell that may be used in the methods described herein and that expresses a urea transporter is a red blood cell i.e. erythrocyte which endogenously expresses the urea transporter UT B also referred to as the Kidd blood group antigen .

Alternatively the cells which may be any one of a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell a liver cell or a testis cell or other cell may comprise an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes a urea transporter polypeptide. The cell may be transfected transformed or transduced with a recombinant expression vector which comprises a polynucleotide that is capable of directing expression of at least one urea transporter. To direct expression of at least one transporter the polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes at least one urea transporter which nucleotide sequence is operatively linked to at least one expression control sequence e.g. a promoter enhancer transcriptional control element and the like . Recombinant expression vectors may be prepared according to methods and techniques with which a person skilled in the molecular biology art is familiar. An exemplary cell line that may be transfected with a recombinant expression vector comprising a polynucleotide that directs expression of a urea transporter or other transport includes Madin Darby canine kidney cells MDCK .

Cells may be obtained or derived from any one of a number of animals including mammals. Mammalian cells may be obtained or may have originated from humans non human primates rodents such as mice rats or rabbits cats feline dogs canine cattle bovine sheep ovine pigs porcine llamas and camels for example.

Methods that may be used to identify and to characterize urea transporter inhibitors such as the compounds described herein include red blood cell lysis methods and a stopped flow light scattering methods see also e.g. U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2010 0305105 and 2010 0190796 Levin et al. supra . Such assays may be used to determine the effective concentrations of a particular compound and thus are useful for predicting the capability of the compound to effectively treat a disease disorder or condition treatable by inhibiting urea transporter activity in a subject.

Other methods for characterizing compounds include stopped flow light scattering to measure solute and water permeabilities of a cell see e.g. Yang et al. 277 36782 86 2002 2002 Jul. 19 Macey et al. 134 3 241 50 1993 . For example to determine the urea permeability of a cell dilutions of indicator cells such as red blood cells may be incubated with an agent and then subjected to an inwardly directed gradient of urea. After the cells osmotically shrink i.e. the cell volume decreases the kinetics of increasing cell volume caused by urea influx can be measured over a time course during which the cells are exposed to 90 scattered light intensity at 530 nm. As the volume of the cell increases scattered light intensity is reduced. Stopped flow light scattering may also be used to determine values for inhibition by a urea transporter and may also be used to determine the sideness of the inhibitor action i.e. whether the inhibitor alters a solute transporter activity by preventing or inhibiting entry of a solute into the cell or whether the inhibitor alters a solute transport activity by preventing or inhibiting efflux of the inhibitor from the cell .

A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the methods and techniques described herein may include appropriate control samples to evaluate and ensure the robustness accuracy and precision of the method. Statistical methods may be applied to the determinations of the particular assay in the absence and presence of a candidate agent to evaluate and compare the different candidate agents tested.

A composition comprising at least one of the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein may be used for treating a disease disorder or condition in a subject. In one embodiment methods are provided for treating a disease disorder or condition that is treatable by inhibiting transport of urea wherein the method comprises administering a composition comprising at least one compound as described herein.

UT inhibitors have a fundamentally different mechanism of action from conventional diuretics which target kidney tubule salt transporters and so may act in synergy. Diuretics are used widely to increase renal salt and water excretion in fluid overload conditions such as congestive heart failure cirrhosis and nephrotic syndrome and when vasopressin levels are inappropriately high such as in syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone SIADH . By disrupting countercurrent mechanisms UT inhibitors alone or in combination with loop diuretics may induce a diuresis in states of refractory edema where conventional diuretics are not effective see e.g. Zhang 285 F731 F747 2003 Fenton et al. 458 169 177 2009 Smith 94 180 185 2009 .

A disease condition or disorder treatable by inhibiting transport of urea includes a fluid retention imbalance for example urea clearance insufficiency. In certain instances the urea clearance insufficiency is a renal urea clearance insufficiency. Triazolothienopyrimidines may be useful for therapy of diuretic refractory edema in heart and liver failure. The compounds of structures I II III and substructures described herein may be used to treat a refractory edema associated with or caused by a cardiovascular renal or metabolic disease disorder or condition such as cirrhosis nephritic syndrome acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency hypertension and congestive heart failure. In certain other embodiments the disease disorder or condition to be treated is syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH azotemia fluid retention and abnormal uresis. In other certain embodiments at least one of the triazolothienopyrimidines compounds described herein may also be used in combination with a loop diuretic.

In a particular embodiment methods are provided for treating such a disease disorder or condition by inhibiting the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea. In one embodiment at least one of the compounds described herein inhibits the capability of a UT B transporter to transport urea. A triazolothienopyrimidine compound described herein may be used as a type of diuretic an urearetic that affects renal urea clearance mechanisms.

Methods are also provided for using the compounds described herein for treating a disease disorder or condition treatable by inhibiting transport of urea in a subject by administering to the subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one of the compounds having the structure and substructures described above. The disease disorder or condition that may be treated using the compounds and compositions described herein may be associated with a fluid retention imbalance such as urea clearance insufficiency. Urea is a by product of protein metabolism that is formed in the liver. Because urea contains ammonia which is toxic to an animal body urea must be quickly filtered from the blood by the kidneys and excreted in the urine. Also as described herein conservation of water in mammals depends significantly on the transport of urea particularly in the kidney. Urea is generated as the major end product of hepatic nitrogen metabolism and is excreted primarily by the kidney. In a particular embodiment the disease disorder or condition to be treated is renal urea clearance insufficiency.

As understood by a person skilled in the medical art the terms treat and treatment refer to medical management of a disease disorder or condition of a subject i.e. patient see e.g. Stedman s Medical Dictionary . In general an appropriate dose and treatment regimen provide at least one compound of structures I II III and substructures described herein in an amount sufficient to provide therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit. Therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit includes for example an improved clinical outcome both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow or retard lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder or to prevent or slow or retard lessen the expansion or severity of such disorder. As discussed herein beneficial or desired clinical results from treating a subject include but are not limited to abatement lessening or alleviation of symptoms that result from or are associated the disease condition or disorder to be treated decreased occurrence of symptoms improved quality of life longer disease free status i.e. decreasing the likelihood or the propensity that a subject will present symptoms on the basis of which a diagnosis of a disease is made diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable and or overall survival. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival when compared to expected survival if a subject were not receiving treatment. Subjects in need of treatment include those who already have the condition or disorder as well as subjects prone to have or at risk of developing the disease condition or disorder and those in which the disease condition or disorder is to be prevented i.e. decreasing the likelihood of occurrence of the disease disorder or condition .

In particular embodiments of the methods described herein the subject is a human or non human animal. A subject in need of the treatments described herein may exhibit symptoms or sequelae of a disease disorder or condition described herein or may be at risk of developing the disease disorder or condition. Non human animals that may be treated include mammals for example non human primates e.g. monkey chimpanzee gorilla and the like rodents e.g. rats mice gerbils hamsters ferrets rabbits lagomorphs swine e.g. pig miniature pig equine dogs canine cats feline cattle bovine sheep ovine pigs porcine llamas and camels and other domestic farm and zoo animals.

In one embodiment treating any one of the aforementioned diseases or conditions comprises inhibiting i.e. preventing decreasing reducing abrogating or inhibiting in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of at least one urea transporter e.g. UT B to transport urea by administering a composition comprising any one or more of the compounds of the structure I II III and substructures. The subject and thus the source of the urea transporter may be a human or non human mammal.

To evaluate and to monitor the effectiveness of any one of the compounds described herein to treat a disease disorder or condition one or more of several clinical assay methods may be performed that are familiar to a person skilled in the clinical art. For example a clinical method called a urea clearance test may be performed. By way of example a blood sample is obtained from a subject to whom the compound is being administered so that the amount of urea in the bloodstream can be determined. In addition a first urine sample may be collected from the subject and additional samples may be collected over time for example at least one hour later . The amount of urea quantified in the urine indicates the amount of urea that is filtered or cleared by the kidneys into the urine. Another clinical assay method measures urine osmolality i.e. the amount of dissolved solute particles in the urine . Inability of the kidneys to concentrate the urine in response to restricted fluid intake or to dilute the urine in response to increased fluid intake during osmolality testing may indicate decreased kidney function.

Urea is a by product of protein metabolism and is formed in the liver. Urea is then filtered from the blood and excreted in the urine by the kidneys. The BUN blood urea nitrogen test measures the amount of nitrogen contained in the urea. High BUN levels may indicate kidney dysfunction but because blood urea nitrogen is also affected by protein intake and liver function the test is usually performed in conjunction with determination of blood creatinine which is considered a more specific indicator of kidney function. Low clearance values for creatinine and urea indicate diminished ability of the kidneys to filter these waste products from the blood and excrete them in the urine. As clearance levels decrease blood levels of creatinine and urea nitrogen increase. An abnormally elevated blood creatinine a more specific and sensitive indicator of kidney disease than the BUN is diagnostic of impaired kidney function.

Also provided herein are pharmaceutical compositions that comprise any one or more of the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds of structures I II and III and substructures and specific structures thereof . The compounds described herein may be formulated in a pharmaceutical composition for use in treatment or preventive or prophylactic treatment e.g. reducing the likelihood of occurrence or exacerbation of disease or of one or more symptoms of the disease .

As used herein a subject may be any mammal including a human that may have or be afflicted with a disease condition or disorder described herein. A pharmaceutical composition may be a sterile aqueous or non aqueous solution suspension or emulsion which additionally comprises at least one physiologically acceptable excipient i.e. a physiologically and pharmaceutically suitable non toxic and inactive material or ingredient that does not interfere with the activity of the active ingredient an excipient also may be called a carrier . Such compositions may be in the form of a solid liquid or gas aerosol . Alternatively compositions described herein may be formulated as a lyophilizate or compounds may be encapsulated within liposomes using technology known in the art. Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other components which may be biologically active or inactive. Such components include but are not limited to buffers e.g. neutral buffered saline or phosphate buffered saline carbohydrates e.g. glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione stabilizers dyes flavoring agents and suspending agents and or preservatives.

In pharmaceutical dosage forms any one or more of the compounds of structure I II III and substructures and specific structures described herein may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative such as a salt or they may also be used alone or in appropriate association as well as in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds. The methods and excipients described herein are exemplary and are in no way limiting. An effective amount or therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of a compound or a composition comprising one or more compounds that when administered to a subject either as a single dose or as part of a series of doses is effective to produce a desired therapeutic effect.

Optimal doses may generally be determined using experimental models and or clinical trials. The optimal dose may depend upon the body mass weight or blood volume of the subject. In general the amount of a compound described herein that is present in a dose ranges from about 0.01 g to about 1000 g per kg weight of the host. The use of the minimum dose that is sufficient to provide effective therapy is usually preferred. Subjects may generally be monitored for therapeutic effectiveness using assays suitable for the condition being treated or prevented which assays will be familiar to those having ordinary skill in the art and are described herein. The level of a compound that is administered to a subject may be monitored by determining the level of the compound in a biological fluid for example in the blood blood fraction e.g. serum and or in the urine and or other biological sample from the subject. Any method practiced in the art to detect the compound may be used to measure the level of compound during the course of a therapeutic regimen.

The dose of a composition comprising at least one of the compounds described herein for treating a disease or condition may depend upon the subject s condition that is stage of the disease severity of symptoms caused by the disease general health status as well as age gender and weight and other factors apparent to a person skilled in the medical art. Similarly the dose of the compound for treating a disease or disorder treatable by inhibiting urea transporters as described herein may be determined according to parameters understood by a person skilled in the medical art.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one triazolothienopyrimidine compound may be administered in a manner appropriate to the disease or disorder to be treated as determined by persons skilled in the medical arts. An appropriate dose and a suitable duration and frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the condition of the patient the type and severity of the patient s disease the particular form of the active ingredient and the method of administration. In general an appropriate dose or effective dose and treatment regimen provides the composition s comprising at least one compound as described herein in an amount sufficient to provide therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit for example an improved clinical outcome such as more frequent complete or partial remissions or longer disease free and or overall survival or a lessening of symptom severity or other benefit as described in detail above .

The pharmaceutical compositions described herein that comprise at least one of the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein may be administered to a subject in need by any one of several routes that effectively deliver an effective amount of the compound. Such administrative routes include for example oral parenteral enteral rectal intranasal buccal sublingual intramuscular and transdermal. Compositions administered by these routes of administration and others are described in greater detail herein.

A pharmaceutical composition may be a sterile aqueous or non aqueous solution suspension or emulsion which additionally comprises a physiologically acceptable excipient pharmaceutically acceptable or suitable excipient or carrier i.e. a non toxic material that does not interfere with the activity of the active ingredient . Such compositions may be in the form of a solid liquid or gas aerosol . Alternatively compositions described herein may be formulated as a lyophilizate or compounds may be encapsulated within liposomes using technology known in the art. Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other components which may be biologically active or inactive. Such components include but are not limited to buffers e.g. neutral buffered saline or phosphate buffered saline carbohydrates e.g. glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione stabilizers dyes flavoring agents and suspending agents and or preservatives.

Any suitable excipient or carrier known to those of ordinary skill in the art for use in pharmaceutical compositions may be employed in the compositions described herein. Excipients for therapeutic use are well known and are described for example in Gennaro 21Ed. Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. 2005 . In general the type of excipient is selected based on the mode of administration as well as the chemical composition of the active ingredient s . Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated for any appropriate manner of administration including for example topical oral nasal intrathecal rectal vaginal intraocular subconjunctival sublingual or parenteral administration including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intrasternal intracavernous intrameatal or intraurethral injection or infusion. For parenteral administration the carrier preferably comprises water saline alcohol a fat a wax or a buffer. For oral administration any of the above excipients or a solid excipient or carrier such as mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine talcum cellulose kaolin glycerin starch dextrins sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose glucose sucrose and or magnesium carbonate may be employed.

A pharmaceutical composition e.g. for oral administration or delivery by injection may be in the form of a liquid. A liquid pharmaceutical composition may include for example one or more of the following a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils that may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents antioxidants chelating agents buffers and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. The use of physiological saline is preferred and an injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A composition comprising any one of the compounds described herein may be formulated for sustained or slow release. Such compositions may generally be prepared using well known technology and administered by for example oral rectal or subcutaneous implantation or by implantation at the desired target site. Sustained release formulations may contain the compound dispersed in a carrier matrix and or contained within a reservoir surrounded by a rate controlling membrane. Excipients for use within such formulations are biocompatible and may also be biodegradable preferably the formulation provides a relatively constant level of active component release. The amount of active compound contained within a sustained release formulation depends upon the site of implantation the rate and expected duration of release and the nature of the condition to be treated or prevented.

For oral formulations at least one of the compounds described herein can be used alone or in combination with appropriate additives to make tablets powders granules or capsules for example with conventional additives such as lactose mannitol corn starch or potato starch with binders such as starch gelatin natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as acacia tragacanth or sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose polyethylene glycol waxes crystalline cellulose cellulose derivatives and acacia with disintegrators such as corn starch potato starch or sodium carboxymethylcellulose methyl cellulose agar bentonite or xanthan gum with lubricants such as talc sodium oleate magnesium stearate sodium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate or sodium chloride and if desired with diluents buffering agents moistening agents preservatives coloring agents and flavoring agents. The compounds may be formulated with a buffering agent to provide for protection of the compound from low pH of the gastric environment and or an enteric coating. A compound included in the compositions may be formulated for oral delivery with a flavoring agent e.g. in a liquid solid or semi solid formulation and or with an enteric coating.

Oral formulations may be provided as gelatin capsules which may contain the active compound along with powdered carriers such as lactose starch cellulose derivatives magnesium stearate stearic acid and the like. Similar carriers and diluents may be used to make compressed tablets. Tablets and capsules can be manufactured as sustained release products to provide for continuous release of active ingredients over a period of time. Compressed tablets can be sugar coated or film coated to mask any unpleasant taste and protect the tablet from the atmosphere or enteric coated for selective disintegration in the gastrointestinal tract. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration may contain coloring and or flavoring agents to increase acceptance of the compound by the subject.

A composition comprising any one of the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein may be formulated for sustained or slow release. Such compositions may generally be prepared using well known technology and administered by for example oral rectal or subcutaneous implantation or by implantation at the desired target site. Sustained release formulations may contain the compound dispersed in a carrier matrix and or contained within a reservoir surrounded by a rate controlling membrane. Excipients for use within such formulations are biocompatible and may also be biodegradable preferably the formulation provides a relatively constant level of active component release. The amount of active compound contained within a sustained release formulation depends upon the site of implantation the rate and expected duration of release and the nature of the condition to be treated or prevented.

The triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein can be formulated in pharmaceutical compositions as suppositories by mixing with a variety of bases such as emulsifying bases or water soluble bases. These compounds may be administered rectally via a suppository. The suppository can include vehicles such as cocoa butter carbowaxes and polyethylene glycols which melt at body temperature yet are solidified at room temperature.

The triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein may be used in aerosol formulation to be administered via inhalation. The compounds may be formulated into pressurized acceptable propellants such as dichlorodifluoromethane propane nitrogen and the like.

Any one or more of the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds described herein may be administered topically e.g. by transdermal administration . Topical formulations may be in the form of a transdermal patch ointment paste lotion cream gel and the like. Topical formulations may include one or more of a penetrating agent thickener diluent emulsifier dispersing aid or binder. When a triazolothienopyrimidine compound is formulated for transdermal delivery the compound may be formulated with or for use with a penetration enhancer. Penetration enhancers which include chemical penetration enhancers and physical penetration enhancers facilitate delivery of the compound through the skin and may also be referred to as permeation enhancers interchangeably. Physical penetration enhancers include for example electrophoretic techniques such as iontophoresis use of ultrasound or phonophoresis and the like. Chemical penetration enhancers are agents administered either prior to with or immediately following compound administration which increase the permeability of the skin particularly the stratum corneum to provide for enhanced penetration of the drug through the skin. Additional chemical and physical penetration enhancers are described in for example Transdermal Delivery of Drugs A. F. Kydonieus ED 1987 CRL Press Percutaneous Penetration Enhancers eds. Smith et al. CRC Press 1995 Lenneruas et al. 2002 54 4 499 508 Karande et al. 2002 19 5 655 60 Vaddi et al. 2002 July 91 7 1639 51 Ventura et al. 2001 9 5 379 93 Shokri et al. 2001 228 1 2 99 107 Suzuki et al. 2001 24 6 698 700 Alberti et al. 2001 71 3 319 27 Goldstein et al. 2001 57 2 301 5 Kiijavainen et al. 2000 10 2 97 102 and Tenjarla et al. 1999 192 2 147 58.

When a triazolothienopyrimidine compound is formulated with a chemical penetration enhancer the penetration enhancer is selected for compatibility with the compound and is present in an amount sufficient to facilitate delivery of the compound through skin of a subject e.g. for delivery of the compound to the systemic circulation. A triazolothienopyrimidine compound may be provided in a drug delivery patch e.g. a transmucosal or transdermal patch and can be formulated with a penetration enhancer. The patch generally includes a backing layer which is impermeable to the compound and other formulation components a matrix in contact with one side of the backing layer which matrix provides for sustained release which may be controlled release of the compound and an adhesive layer which is on the same side of the backing layer as the matrix. The matrix can be selected as is suitable for the route of administration and can be for example a polymeric or hydrogel matrix.

Kits with unit doses of one or more of the compounds described herein usually in oral or injectable doses are provided. Such kits may include a container containing the unit dose an informational package insert describing the use and attendant benefits of the drugs in treating pathological condition of interest and optionally an appliance or device for delivery of the composition.

Also provided herein are methods of manufacturing the pharmaceutical compositions described herein that comprise at least one of the triazolothienopyrimidine compounds as described herein. In one embodiment the method of manufacture comprises synthesis of the compound. Synthesis of one of more of the compounds described herein may be performed according to methods described herein and practiced in the art. In another method of manufacture the method comprises comprise formulating i.e. combining mixing at least one of the compounds disclosed herein with a pharmaceutically suitable excipient. These methods are performed under conditions that permit formulation and or maintenance of the desired state i.e. liquid or solid for example of each of the compound and excipient. A method of manufacture may comprise one or more of the steps of synthesizing the at least one compound formulating the compound with at least one pharmaceutically suitable excipient to form a pharmaceutical composition and dispensing the formulated pharmaceutical composition in an appropriate vessel i.e. a vessel appropriate for storage and or distribution of the pharmaceutical composition .

Other embodiments and uses will be apparent to one skilled in the art in light of the present disclosures. The following examples are provided merely as illustrative of various embodiments and shall not be construed to limit the claims in any way.

In addition to materials and methods described in specific examples the following materials and methods were used in the examples described herein. Materials and methods are also described in Example 13 which provide certain experimental details for methods and techniques described in Examples 14 and 15.

Whole blood was collected from 8 12 week old 25 35 g wild type or UT B null mice see e.g. Yang et al. . supra 2002 or AQP1 null mice see e.g. Ma et al. 273 4296 99 1998 in a CD1 genetic background by orbital puncture following subcutaneous injection of sodium heparin. Procedures were approved by the UCSF Committee on Animal Research. Human venous blood was collected into heparinized tubes stored at 4 C. and used within 48 h.

Erythrocyte urea and water permeabilities were measured by stopped flow light scattering using a Hi Tech Sf 51 instrument Wiltshire UK . For measurement of urea permeability dilutions of whole blood mouse or human in PBS hematocrit 0.5 were incubated with test compounds for 5 min and then subjected to a 100 mM inwardly directed urea gradient. After an initial osmotic shrinking phase the kinetics of increasing cell volume caused by urea influx was measured as the time course of 90 scattered light intensity at 530 nm with increasing cell volume producing reduced scattered light intensity. Urea permeability and percentage inhibition were computed as described see e.g. Levin et al. . supra 2007 . In some experiments different urea gradients 25 200 mM were used or inhibitor was added only to the erythrocyte containing or urea containing solutions. In some experiments an outwardly directed urea gradient was used in which erythrocytes were incubated for 30 min with PBS containing specified urea and mixed in the stopped flow apparatus with PBS. In reversibility experiments erythrocytes were incubated for 30 min with inhibitor washed three times to remove inhibitor and urea transport assayed. Osmotic water permeability was measured using a 100 mM gradient of sucrose.

UTB 14 2 M was added to 2 suspension of erythrocytes in PBS. At specified times 600 L aliquots were removed and layered over 350 L of silicone oil density 1.05 g mL overlying 100 L of 0.55 M sucrose in PBS density 1.075 g mL . Samples were spun for 30 s at 12 000 rpm to rapidly separate cells from supernatant. UTB 14 was assayed in the cell pellet by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry following ethyl acetate extraction as described herein.

One hundred thousand chemically diverse small molecules were screened in order to identify potent and selective inhibitors of UT B that were suitable for efficacy studies in mice. Screening was performed using mouse erythrocytes which strongly express UT B and are highly water permeable because the cells also express aquaporin 1 AQP1 water channels. The screening method involved assay of erythrocyte lysis in response to a large outwardly directed gradient of acetamide a urea analog that is transported efficiently by UT B. A large outwardly directed gradient of acetamide causes transient cell swelling but little cell lysis because UT B facilitated acetamide efflux limits water influx see . UT B inhibition prevents acetamide efflux allowing unopposed cell swelling and consequent cell lysis which was recorded by reduced near infrared light absorption at 710 nm. Acetamide rather than urea or other urea analogs was selected because its efflux occurs over a comparable time as osmotic equilibration in mouse erythrocytes which increases assay sensitivity. The acetamide loading concentration to best resolve UT B inhibition was determined empirically as 1.25 M giving a Z factor for UT B inhibitor screening of 0.6. Screening was done at a 25 M concentration of test compounds based on initial studies showing a low percentage of active compounds.

Screening was carried out using a Beckman Coulter Fullerton Calif. integrated system equipped with liquid handling robot Biomek FX and plate readers FLUOstar Optima BMG Durham N.C. as described see e.g. Ma et al. 277 37235 41 2002 . Primary screening was done using a collection of 100 000 diverse drug like compounds from commercial sources ChemDiv San Diego Calif. Asinex Winston Salem N.C. . For assay of UT B inhibition whole blood was diluted to a hematocrit of approximately 1 in PBS containing 1.25 M acetamide and 5 mM glucose. 100 L of the erythrocyte suspension was added to each well of a 96 well round bottom microplate to which test compounds were added 1 L 25 M compound concentration 1 final DMSO . After 10 min incubation 20 L of the erythrocyte suspension was added rapidly to each well of a 96 well black walled plate Costar Corning N.Y. containing 180 L isosmolar buffer PBS containing 1 DMSO . Vigorous mixing was achieved by repeated pipetting. Erythrocyte lysis was quantified by absorbance at 710 nm wavelength made within 5 min after hypo osmolar shock. Each assay plate contained eight negative no lysis controls isotonic buffer PBS 1.25 M acetamide with 1 DMSO and eight positive full lysis controls distilled HO . Percentage erythrocyte lysis was calculated using control values from the same plate as lysis 100 A A A A where Ais the absorbance value from a test well. For analysis of structure activity relationships 900 commercially available analogs ChemDiv and Asinex were tested.

Primary screening yielded active inhibitors of mouse UT B 75 inhibition at 25 M in three chemical classes which included two classes not previously identified triazlothienopyrimidines and phthalazinamines and benzenesulfonanilides see . A related benzenesulfonanilide UTB 201 was identified in a prior screen of 50 000 compounds unrelated to the 100 000 compounds screened as described herein for inhibitors of human UT B see e.g. Levin et al. . supra 2007 . Screening of 900 commercially available analogs of the three chemical classes revealed triazlothienopyrimidines with nanomolar potency for inhibition of UT B. One compound UTB 14 was selected for further in vitro and in vivo characterization because of its low nanomolar potency for inhibition of mouse and human UT B and its high UT B vs. UT A selectivity.

UTB 14 also called compound 1 herein was synthesized as a highly pure 99 by HPLC crystalline powder according to a synthesis scheme illustrated in and described in greater detail below. The synthesis involved reaction of 3 bromothiophene 2 carbaldehyde 11a with sodium azide in DMSO to generate an azidothiophene carbaldehyde Gronowitz et al. 29 224 32 1975 which was oxidized using the Lindgren reaction see e.g. Lindgren et al. 27 888 90 1973 to generate 3 azidothiophene 2 carboxylic acid 13a Steglich esterification Neises et al. 17 522 24 1978 gave the azido ester intermediate 14a. Arylsulfonylacetonitrile intermediate 6m was generated by alkylation of 4 ethylbenzenethiol with bromoacetonitrile followed by oxidation with mCPBA. Lactam 15m was then synthesized by base mediated 2 3 cycloaddition of 14a and 6m and converted to UTB 14 using the PyBOP coupling reagent in the presence of thiophene 2 methylamine see e.g. Wan et al. 8 2425 28 2006 by microwave irradiation.

3 Bromothiophene 2 carbaldehyde 1 2000 mg 10.47 mmol was treated with sodium azide 1994 mg 30.7 mmol in DMSO 27 ml . The reaction was heated to 65 C. for 48 h in a sealed 40 mL vial. The reaction mixture was then taken up into HO 35 mL and extracted with diethyl ether 3 20 mL . The organic product layer was washed with 25 ml of saturated NaCl solution dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to give 3 azidothiophene 2 carbaldehyde 1.22 g 76 yield .

3 Azidothiophene 2 carbaldehyde 1.22 g 8.0 mmol was dissolved in 30 mL of acetone HO 2 1 and treated with sulfamic acid 1.16 g 12.0 mmol . Sodium chlorite 1.27 g 17.1 mmol was added and stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The mixture was alkalinized to pH 9 with sodium carbonate and the product was washed with diethyl ether 10 mL . The aqueous layer was carefully treated with aqueous concentrated HCl to pH 1. The product was extracted with diethyl ether 3 10 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to give 13a 1.01 g 75 yield .

Compound 13a 5.8 g 34.3 mmol was treated with 1 bromo 2 methylpropane 4.47 mL 1.2 equiv. and cesium carbonate 7.82 g 0.7 equiv. in anhydrous DMF 0.1 M and heated to 80 C. for 6 h under argon. The mixture was cooled dissolved in HO 150 mL and extracted with 1 1 diethyl ether ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The organic layer was washed with distilled HO 5 100 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to give 14a as an oil 6.77 g 77 yield .

To a solution of compound 6m 0.71 g 3.4 mmol 1.5 equivalent in anhydrous ethanol 22 mL was added sodium ethoxide 1.54 g 22.6 mmol 10 equivalent . The reaction solution was stirred for 15 min followed by addition of azido ester 14a 0.51 g 2.3 mmol and the reaction mixture was further stirred for 3 h. Solid NaHCO 4.75 g 56.5 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was taken up in CHCl 100 mL washed with aqueous HCl 1 M 3 100 mL concentrated in vacuo and crystallized to give 15m 568 mg 70 as a white solid.

Pyrimidin 5 one 15m 560 mg 1.55 mmol was treated with 2 thiophenemethylamine 0.48 mL 4.66 mmol 3 equivalent DBU 0.70 mL 4.66 mmol 3 equivalent and PyBOP 2.43 g 4.66 mmol 3 equivalent in anhydrous acetonitrile 5.1 mL and placed in a microwave vessel. The mixture was heated in a microwave synthesizer at 100 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was treated with aqueous HCl 1 M 20 mL and stirred for 30 min before NaCOwas added to adjust pH to approximately 9. The reaction mixture was dissolved in CHCl 75 mL washed with aqueous HCl 1 M 3 75 mL . The organic product layer was concentrated in vacuo and UTB 14 was purified by flash column chromatography dichloromethane 1 acetic acid dichloromethane methanol 100 1 1 acetic acid . The residue was re crystallized from ethanol to yield UTB 14 392 mg 55 yield as a white solid. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 1.21 t 3H J 10 Hz 2.67 q 2H J 10 Hz 5.15 d 2H J 5 Hz 5.86 t 1H J 5 Hz 7.01 dd 1H J 5 Hz 7.23 d 1H J 5 Hz 7.26 d 1H J 5 Hz 7.28 d 2H J 5 Hz 7.88 d 1H J 5 Hz 7.95 d 1H J 5 Hz 8.12 d 2H J 10 Hz . C NMR CDCl 125 Hz 15.73 29.55 41.04 118.13 126.42 127.89 128.07 128.64 129.08 133.84 153.22. HR ESI MS M H calc 456.0622. found 456.0583 for CHNOS.

UT B inhibition potency was assayed quantitatively by stopped flow light scattering from the kinetics of urea influx in response to an inwardly directed urea gradient see Materials and Methods above . Rapid mixing of an erythrocyte suspension with an equal volume of a hyperosmolar urea containing solution to give a 100 mM inwardly directly urea gradient produced rapid cell shrinking due to osmotic water efflux followed by cell swelling as a consequence of urea and water influx. shows light scattering kinetics at different UTB 14 concentrations which was present in both the erythrocyte and urea containing solutions. Increasing UTB 14 concentration greatly slowed the kinetics of erythrocyte swelling. UTB 14 at 1 M produced near 100 inhibition as evidenced by the comparable swelling kinetics to that measured in erythrocytes from UT B knockout mice lower curves . UTB 14 did not inhibit urea transport in UT B null erythrocytes which is mediated by transport across the lipid bilayer by a solubility diffusion mechanism. Concentration inhibition data gave an ICof 25.1 nM for mouse UT B and 10.3 nM for human UT B see .

To investigate whether UTB 14 competes with urea at a common binding site on the UT B transporter UTB 14 inhibition efficacy was measured as a function of urea gradient. Measurements were done at UTB 14 concentrations of 0 and 50 nM. shows urea concentration dependent reduction in UTB 14 inhibition potency suggesting a competitive mechanism for UTB 14 inhibition of UT B urea transport. To study transport inhibition symmetry urea efflux was induced by pre loading erythrocytes with 100 mM urea which were then mixed in the stopped flow apparatus with urea free PBS. shows slowed kinetics of urea efflux with increasing UTB 14 concentration with ICof 26.7 nM similar to that of 25.1 for UTB 14 inhibition urea influx as shown in .

A homology model of human UT B was generated using the SWISS MODEL online utility see Internet web site swissmodel.expasy.org in automated mode using the sequence of the full human UT B1 protein see e.g. GenBank Accession No. CAB60834 . Residues 43 to 378 were modeled based a urea transporter from PDB code 3M6E see e.g. Levin et al. supra 2009 . UTB 14 was drawn in ChemDraw Cambridge Software Cambridge Mass. converted to a SMILES strings transformed to a 3D conformation and minimized using PIPELINE PILOT Accelrys San Diego Calif. . The single conformation was passed through MOLCHARGE OpenEyes Santa Fe N. Mex. to apply AM1BCC charges and through OMEGA OpenEyes to generate a multi conformational library for UTB 14. The UT B protein was prepared for docking using the FRED RECEPTOR OpenEyes utility employing the homology model of human UT B. The receptor site was generated using a 12 cubic box. Docking was performed using FRED v2.2.5 OpenEyes which was configured to employ consensus scoring functions ChemGauss3 OEChemScore ScreenScore PLP and ZapBind. Docking of the inhibitor was carried out free of pharmacophore restraint. Each final pose was minimized by FRED by molecular dynamics using the MMFF94 force field within the active site. The final protein ligand complex was visualized using PYMOL Schr dinger San Diego Calif. .

The putative site of UTB 14 binding to the UT B protein was determined by docking computations following homology modeling of the human UT B structure based on crystal structure data for a bacterial urea transporter homolog as shown in see e.g. Levin supra . The predicted UTB 14 binding site was in a centrally located groove in the channel used for urea transport see . This location is consistent with the data above see Example 4 showing urea competition and an intracellular site of action of UTB 14. summarizes the key interactions predicted by the model. Most of the interactions involve hydrophobic and neutral polar amino acids in the binding pocket Leu 121 Leu 364 Phe 71 Thr 368 Leu 116 Asn 165 Ser 169 and Ser 365.

UT B selectivity and cytotoxicity were studied. Because of sequence similarities between UT B and UT A isoforms UT A inhibition was measured. Transepithelial urea transport was measured in MDCK cells stably expressing UT A1 UT A3 and UT B. UT A1 and UT A3 are cAMP regulated urea transporters expressed in kidney tubule epithelia see e.g. Frohlich et al. 291 C600 606 2006 Tickle et al. 0.297 R323 329 2009 Stewart et al. 292 F1157 63 2006 . MDCK cells were cultured on collagen coated porous filters for measurement of urea accumulation in the apical solution following addition of urea to the basolateral solution.

cDNAs encoding mouse UT A3 and UT B were cloned into pcDNA3.1 and used to generate stably transfected MDCK cell lines. MDCK cells stably expressing rat UT A1 MDCK UT A1 see e.g. Frohlich et al. supra were obtained as described see e.g. Levin et al. . supra . Cells were cultured in DMEM containing 10 FBS and 0.5 mg mL G418. Cells were grown on 12 mm collagen coated Transwell inserts 0.4 m pore size Costar in 12 well plates and used after culture for 4 days transepithelial resistance 500 600 cm . Urea flux in the basolateral to apical direction across unstimulated and forskolin stimulated cell layers was measured in response to a 15 mM urea gradient. Cultures were preincubated for 30 min at 37 C. with DMSO vehicle or forskolin with or without UT B inhibitor in both the apical facing 0.2 mL and basal facing 1 mL solutions. The basal facing solution was replaced with PBS containing 15 mM urea. Five L aliquots of apical fluid were collected at specified times for assay of urea concentration QUANTICHROM Urea Assay Kit Bioassay System Hayward Calif. .

Effects of UTB 14 on water AQP1 and chloride CFTR and TMEM16A transport were also measured because these transporters often co localize with urea transporters. Erythrocyte osmotic water permeability was measured by stopped flow light scattering. As noted in a previous report approximately 90 of water transport in erythrocytes is mediated by AQP1 approximately 8 by UT B and the remainder through the lipid bilayer see e.g. Yang et al. 277 36782 86 2002 . left shows no significant inhibition of water transport in erythrocytes from wild type mice indicating that UTB 14 does not inhibit AQP1. However UTB 14 inhibited water transport significantly in AQP1 null erythrocytes right supporting a prior conclusion that erythrocyte water transport is mediated in part by UT B see e.g. Levin et al. supra Meng et al. 52 474 78 2009 . shows no significant inhibition of CFTR or TMEM16A chloride conductance by 10 M UTB 14 as measured by short circuit current. Last by MTT assay incubation of MDCK cells with UTB 14 up to 10 M for 24 h where it remains soluble showed no cytotoxicity .

CFTR chloride conductance was measured by short circuit current analysis in Fisher rat thyroid FRT cells stably expressing CFTR as described see e.g. Ma et al. . 2002 supra . CFTR chloride conductance was stimulated by forskolin and inhibited by a thiazolidinone compound that inhibits CFTR CFTR 172 . TMEM16A calcium activated chloride conductance was measured by short circuit current analysis in FRT cells stably expressing TMEM16A as described see e.g. Namkung et al. 286 2365 2374 2011. TMEM16A was stimulated by ATP and inhibited by tannic acid 100 M . Cytotoxicity was measured in MDCK using the MTT assay 3 4 5 dimethyl thiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide by standard procedures.

UTB 14 was formulated at 1 mg ml in 5 DMSO 2.5 TWEEN 80 and 2.5 PEG400 in HO based on formulations used for compounds of similar polarity and chemical properties see e.g. Strickley 21 201 30 2004 . Male mice wild type or UT B knockout in a CD1 genetic background age 8 10 weeks 25 35 g were administered 300 L of the UTB 14 formulation or formulation alone by intraperitoneal injection. Urine samples were collected by placing mice on a wire mesh platform in a clean glass beaker during food and water deprivation. dDAVP 1 deamino 8 D arginine vasopressin 1 g kg was given 1 h after UTB 14. In some studies mice were placed on low normal or low protein diets 4 20 or 40 casein Harlan Labs. for 1 week prior study of dDAVP effects. Urine osmolality was measured in water diluted urine samples by freezing point osmometry Micro osmometer Precision Systems Natick Mass. . Urea concentration was determined by a colorimetric enzymatic assay as described above. Measurements were also done in the absence of dDAVP in which urine was collected during free access to food and water.

To investigate the efficacy of UTB 14 in reducing maximum urinary concentration in mice in vivo a formulation to deliver UTB 14 was established that gave predicted therapeutic concentration of UTB 14 in mouse kidneys for several hours following a single administration. Several vehicles and administration routes were tested intraperitoneal administration of UTB 14 in 5 DMSO 2.5 Tween 80 and 2.5 PEG 400 gave target UTB 14 concentration in kidneys and urine.

A quantitative LC MS assay was developed to measure UTB 14 in kidney homogenates in which UTB 14 was extracted in an organic phase concentrated separated by reverse phase HPLC and detected by gated electrospray mass spectrometry. Kidneys from UTB 14 treated or control mice were rapidly removed after renal arterial perfusion with PBS. Kidneys were weighed mixed with acetic acid 100 L per 1 g tissue and ethyl acetate 10 mL per 1 g tissue and homogenized. The homogenate was centrifuged at 3 000 rpm for 15 min at room temperature. Calibration standards were prepared in kidney homogenates from control mice to which was added known amounts of UTB 14. The ethyl acetate containing supernatant was dried under nitrogen and the residue was reconstituted in acetonitrile HO 3 1 containing 0.1 formic acid. UTB 14 recovery from kidney homogenates was 85 . Reverse phase HPLC was carried out using a XTERRA MS C18 column 2.1 100 mm 3.5 m particle size Waters Milford Mass. connected to a solvent delivery system model 2690 Waters . The solvent system consisted of a linear gradient from 5 to 95 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid over 16 min 0.2 mL min flow . UTB 14 was detected by absorbance at 262 nm. Mass spectra were acquired on a mass spectrometer Alliance HT 2790 ZQ Waters using positive ion detection. For analysis of blood and urine fluids were diluted with equal volume of water and extracted with ethyl acetate.

UT B gene disruption in mice reduces maximum urinary concentrating ability see e.g. Yang et al. . supra 2002 . To study UTB 14 effect on maximum urinary concentration mice were administered 300 g UTB 14 or formulation vehicle control followed 1 h later by the V receptor agonist dDAVP. shows a stable high urine osmolality of 3000 mosm kg HO over several hours following dDAVP administration. left shows a similar through slower response in mice receiving control formulation lacking UTB 14 before dDAVP probably because of the osmotic load. Urine osmolality was significantly reduced by inclusion of UTB 14 in the formulation. The inset in shows urine volume in 4 hour collections from a separate set of studies. UTB 14 did not significantly reduce urine osmolality or urea concentration in UT B knockout mice with values similar to those in UTB 14 treated wild type mice. Under baseline conditions in mice given free access to food and water and in the absence of dDAVP UTB 14 significantly increased urine volume and reduced urine osmolality and urea concentration see . Last the effects of UTB 14 on dDAVP stimulated urinary concentration were measured in mice placed for 1 week on low normal and high protein diets. shows little effect of UTB 14 in mice on a low protein diet where urine concentration was low but a robust effect of UTB 14 in mice on a high protein diet.

In general the following information applies to compounds synthesized and characterized in this example and in the following examples.

All solvents used in reactions were anhydrous and obtained from commercial sources unless otherwise specified. H and C NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker DRX 300 MHz or Bruker Avance 500 MHz spectrometer. H NMR chemical shifts are relative to TMS 0.00 ppm or CDCl 7.26 ppm . C NMR chemical shifts are relative to CDCl 77.23 ppm . Low resolution LCMS was performed using a Waters Micromass ZQ instrument or an Agilent 1100 HPLC equipped with an Agilent 1956B mass spectrometer. High resolution mass spectra were obtained by the University of Notre Dame Mass Spectrometry Proteomics Facility Notre Dame Ind. 46556 5670 using ESI either by direct infusion on a Bruker micrOTOF II or by LC elution via an ultra high pressure Dionex RSLC with C18 column coupled with a Bruker micrOTOF Q II. Microwave assisted organic synthesis was performed using a Biotage Isolera instrument. Commercial triazolothienopyrimidine analogues were purchased from ChemDiv San Diego Calif. . The reactants and intermediates described in the following chemistry examples are outlined in the synthesis schematics 1 4 described herein in the Detailed Description.

General Conditions for Conversion of Substituted Aryl Thiols 4 to Substituted Aryl Sulfonyl Acetonitriles 6 .

Bromoacetonitrile was dissolved in DMF 0.4M stirred in an ice bath and then treated with substituted benzenethiol 4 0.95 eq and KCO 2 eq and allowed to stir for two hours at 0 C. The reaction mixture was taken up into excess HO and extracted 3 times with EtO. The combined organic extracts were washed twice with water and NaCl satd. aq followed by concentration in vacuo to generate the intermediate aryl sulfide acetonitrile 5 compound in approximately 90 yield. The sulfide was then dissolved in DCM 0.4 M and treated with mCPBA 77 peroxybenzoate 2 eq . The reaction was stirred at 0 C. under argon for 2 h to give complete conversion by TLC. The reaction mixture was quenched with excess sodium sulfite solution and extracted twice with DCM the organic layer was washed by brine dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to generate 6.

 1.5g . White solid yield over two steps 76 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 1.31 d J 5 Hz 6H 3.01 3.07 mult 1H 4.04 s 2H 7.50 d J 5 Hz 2H 7.95 d J 5 Hz 2H .

Reaction mixture was purified by flash column chromatography using hexanes ethyl acetate 3 1 yield over two steps 18 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.10 s 2H 7.94 d J 9 Hz 2H 8.20 d J 6 Hz 2H . This compound is available commercially.

Colorless solid yield over two steps 62 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.08 s 2H 7.49 d J 9 Hz 2H 8.12 d J 9 Hz 2H . C NMR CDCl 75 Hz 34.1 46.5 121.9 132.1. This compound is available commercially.

Colorless solid yield over two steps 38 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 3.92 s 3H 4.03 s 2H 7.10 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.97 d J 9 Hz 2H . C NMR CDCl 75 Hz 46.7 56.5 115.7 131.9 163.4. This compound is available commercially.

Colorless solid yield over two steps 56 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.17 s 2H 7.28 t J 3 Hz 1H 7.89 7.90 mult 1H 7.91 7.93 mult 1H . C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 47.7 129.3 137.3 137.5. This compound is available commercially.

 1.7g . Colorless solid yield over two steps 50 . H CDCl 500 MHz 4.07 s 2H 7.35 7.36 mult 2H 8.06 8.09 mult 2H . C NMR CDCl 125 Hz 46.6 111.0 118.0 132.7 135.8 168.6. jz4 77 1.7 g remaining The substance is available commercially.

White solid yield over two steps 19 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 4.06 s 2H 7.82 d J 10 Hz 2H 7.90 d J 10 Hz 2H . C NMR CDCl 125 Hz 46.5 110.9 131.1 132.1 134.0 136.2. This compound is available commercially.

1 Bromo 4 1 1 difluoro ethyl benzene 7h 1000 mg 4.52 mmol 1.00 eq was treated with mercapto acetic acid methyl ester 0.809 ml 9.05 mmol 2.00 eq in 1 4 dioxane 45 ml and N ethyldiisopropylamine 1.495 ml 9.05 mmol 2.0 eq tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 523 mg 0.45 mmol 0.1 eq 9 9 dimethyl 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino xanthene 451.2 mg 0.91 mmol 0.2 eq . The reaction was heated at 135 C. under argon for 16 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The mixture was purified by flash column chromatography eluting with hexanes EtOAc 6 1 to afford the sulfide 8h crude yield 99 . The sulfide 1084 mg 4.40 mmol was dissolved in DCM 44 ml and oxidized by treatment with mCPBA 4341 mg 17.61 mmol 4.0 eq at 0 C. for 2h. The reaction mixture was taken up in DCM 150 ml and was then washed with NaSO aq. 5 3 50 ml . The organic layer was washed with NaCl satd. aq and dried over anhydrous NaSOto generate the product as a colorless oil. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 1.97 t J 15.0 Hz 3H 3.74 s 3H 4.16 s 2H 7.74 d J 5.0 Hz 2H 8.04 d J 10.0 Hz 2H . C NMR CDCl 125 MHz 25.9 t J 28.8 Hz 53.4 61.1 126.0 t J 6.3 Hz 129.2 134.6 144.3 162.9. ESI HRMS M Na calculated 301.0322 observed 301.0319 for CHFOS.

The precursor methyl ester 9h 1232 mg 4.43 mmol 1.0 eq was treated with NH 7N in MeOH 15 ml 132.8 mmol 30 eq in the presence of catalytic NaCN 0.71 mg 0.44 mmol 0.1 eq in a sealed vial and heated at 50 C. for 16 h. After extraction with DCM and washing with NaCl satd. aq the solvent was removed under vacuum. The crude product was washed by ether and subjected to vacuum filtration to generate the primary amide 10h which was used directly without purification or characterization. This material 500 mg 1.90 mmol 1.0 eq was dehydrated with phosphorous pentoxide 16175 mg 56.98 mmol 30 eq in toluene 95 ml at 75 C. for 1h. The reaction mixture was added to ice water 300 ml and then extracted with DCM 200 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted by additional DCM 3 50 ml and the final organic layer was dried over NaSO. Flash column chromatography was performed to purify the crude product eluting with hexane EtOAc 3 1 to yield the aryl sulfonyl acetonitrile target compound 6h as white needle like crystals. 145.90 mg yield 31 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 1.97 t J 18.0 Hz 3H 4.08 s 1H 7.80 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 8.12 d J 6.0 Hz 2H . C NMR Acetone d 75 MHz 24.6 t J 29.3 Hz 44.7 111.2 126.1 t J 6.0 Hz 129.2 139.1 144.2 t J 26.3 Hz . ESI HRMS M Na calculated 301.0322 observed 301.0319 for CHFOS.

General Conditions for Coupling of Substituted Aryl Sulfonyl Acetonitriles 6a h with Azido Thiophene Ester 14a to Generate Cycloadduct 15a h .

Sodium ethoxide 2 mmol scale typically 10 eq based on starting material 14a was dissolved in absolute EtOH 0.3M and then a substituted aryl sulfonyl acetonitrile 6 was added 1.5 eq based on 14a and stirred for 15 min at RT. Next the 3 azidothiophene ester starting material 14a was added 1.0 eq and stirred for 30 min at RT. TLC and HPLC analysis confirmed the consumption of SM and formation of product. Solid NaHCO 25 eq was added to neutralize the excess alkoxide base and the reaction mixture was taken up into CHCland washed by HCl 1M aq. three times . The organic was typically purified by crystallization with chloroform additional purification techniques may be listed for the specific examples below.

The crude mixture was purified by flash column chromatography using pure DCM EtN 1 DCM MeOH 50 1 plus EtN 1 . Yellow solid yield 15 . H NMR DMSO d 300 MHz 1.16 d J 6 Hz 6H 2.93 3.07 mult 1H 7.25 d J 6 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.94 d J 9 Hz 2H 8.05 d J 6 Hz 1H . This compound is available commercially. ESI HRMS M H calculated 375.0585 observed 375.0574 for CHNOS.

The reaction mixture is purified by flash column chromatography using pure DCM 1 EtN DCM MeOH 50 1 plus TEA 1 . The combined fractions were taken up into CHCland washed by 1M twice . White solid yield 5 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.85 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.86 d J 10 Hz 2H 8.06 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.25 d J 10 Hz 2H . ESI HRMS M H calculated 400.9990 observed 400.9982 for CHFNOS.

The reaction mixture is purified by flash column chromatography using DCM MeOH 50 1 plus EtN 1 . The combined fractions were taken up into chloroform and washed by HCl 1M aq. twice . Colorless solid yield 12 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.37 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.73 d J 5 Hz 2H 8.16 d J 10 Hz 1H 8.30 d J 10 Hz 2H .

The reaction mixture is purified by flash column chromatography using DCM MeOH 50 1 plus EtN 1 . The combined fractions were taken up into CHCland washed by 1M aq. HCL twice . Yellow solid yield 32 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 3.87 s 3H 7.02 d J 15 Hz 2H 7.84 d J 10 Hz 1H 8.02 d J 10 Hz 1H 8.03 d J 10 Hz 2H . C NMR CDCl3 75 Hz 56.4 115.4 117.7 130.7 138.1. ESI HRMS M H calculated 363.0221 observed 363.0216 for CHNOS.

Brown solid yield 11 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.15 7.18 mult 1H 7.74 d J 6 Hz 1H 7.86 d J 6 Hz 1H 7.91 d J 6 Hz 1H 8.04 d J 6 Hz 1H . ESI HRMS M H calculated 338.9680 observed 338.9677 for CHNOS.

White solid yield 43 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.85 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.05 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.13 mult 2H . ESI HRMS M Na calculated 372.9842 observed 372.9832 for CHFNOS.

Yellow solid yield 53 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.72 d J 10 Hz 2H 7.85 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.97 d J 10 Hz 2H 8.05 d J 5 Hz 1H . ESI HRMS M Na calculated 432.9041 observed 432.9018 for CHBrNOS. see e.g. Ivachtchenko et al. 18 14 5282 5290 2010 2010 May 24 .

White solid yield 74 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 1.91 t J 18.0 Hz 3H 7.70 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 7.84 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 8.04 d J 3.0 Hz 1H 8.17 d J 9.0 Hz 2H . ESI HRMS M H calculated 397.0240 observed 397.0251 for CHFNOS.

General Conditions for Coupling of Heterocyclic Lactams 15a h with Primary Amines to Generate Amidines 3a k 

Heterocyclic lactam starting material 15a h 1 mol eq was dissolved in anhydrous CHCN 0.3M and treated with primary amine 3 mol eq and DBU 3 mol eq and PyBOP 3 mol eq and the mixture was irradiated by microwave at 100 C. for 30 min. HPLC was performed showing consumption of starting material and formation of tentative product. The crude reaction mixture was treated with 1M HCl 10 eq and stirred for 30 min at RT. Sodium carbonate 1M aq was added to adjust pH to 9. The crude reaction mixture was dissolved in ethyl acetate washed with HCl 1M three times . The organic layer was concentrated in vacuum and the product typically precipitated out. The reaction mixture sat overnight after which the crystalline product was isolated by vacuum filtration. In certain cases the products were purified by triteration with CHCl. Additional or alternative purification measures are documented below for individual compounds. See also Synthesis Scheme 4 described herein.

Crude product was purified by flash column chromatography using pure DCM AcOH 1 to isolate the SM then changed to DCM MeOH 50 1 plus AcOH 1 . Isolated product as a yellow solid yield 21 . H NMR DMSO d 300 MHz 1.17 d J 9 Hz 6H 2.91 2.95 mult 1H 4.97 d J 6 Hz 2H 7.03 7.04 mult 1H 7.23 7.24 mult 1H 7.39 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.45 7.46 mult 1H 7.95 7.98 mult 1H 7.99 8.01 mult 2H 8.42 d J 6 Hz 1H 9.48 t J 3 Hz 1H . C NMR CDCl 125 Hz 24.6 34.6 117.5 126.5 128.0 128.3 128.4 138.0 140.5 155.5 156.5. ESI HRMS M H calculated 470.0779 observed 470.0782 for CHNOS. Compound 3a is also called herein compound 2bn.

Crude product was purified by flash column chromatography using pure DCM AcOH 1 to isolate the SM then changed to DCM MeOH 100 1 plus EtN 1 . Yellow solid yield 3 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 1.20 d J 5 Hz 6H 2.92 2.94 mult 1H 4.20 4.23 mult 2H 7.05 s 1H 7.17 t J 5 Hz 1H 7.35 d J 5 Hz 2H 7.53 mult 1H 8.14 d J 5 Hz 2H 8.19 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.36 d J 5 Hz 2H . This compound is commercially available and reported see e.g. Ivachtchenko et al. . 18 14 5282 5290 2010 Epub 2010 May 24 .

Crude product was purified by flash column chromatography using pure DCM AcOH 1 to isolate the SM then changed to DCM MeOH 100 1 plus EtN 1 . Solid yield 26 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 5.17 d J 6 Hz 2H 7.04 7.05 mult 1H 7.51 d J 6 Hz 1H 7.53 d J 6 Hz 1H 7.68 7.71 mult 2H 7.93 d J 6 Hz 1H 8.00 d J 6 Hz 1H 8.33 8.35 mult 2H . ESI HRMS M H calculated 400.9990 observed 400.9982 for CHFNOS.

Additional purification Prep RP HPLC yield 2 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 5.17 d J 5 Hz 2H 5.80 t J 5 Hz 1H 7.03 7.05 mult 1H 7.22 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.25 d J 10 Hz 2H 7.30 d J 5 Hz 1 7.93 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.00 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.26 d J 10 Hz 2H . ESI HRMS M H calculated 512.0132 observed 512.0139 for CHFNOS.

The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography using pure DCM AcOH 1 to isolate SM and then changed to DCM MeOH 50 1 plus acetic acid 1 . Solid yield 20 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 1.21 d 6H J 6 Hz 2.89 2.93 mult 1H 4.92 d J 6 Hz 2H 6.93 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.17 d J 3 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 9 Hz 2H 7.89 7.91 mult 2H 7.97 7.98 mult 1H 8.12 d J 9 Hz 2H . LC ESI LRMS M H calculated 494.1 observed 494.0 for CHNOS.

The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography using DCM MeOH 120 1 plus AcOH 1 . Brown solid yield 36 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 3.82 s 3H 5.17 d J 10 Hz 2H 6.90 6.93 mult 2H 7.04 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.23 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.30 dd J 10 Hz 5 Hz 1H 7.91 d J 10 Hz 1H 8.00 d J 10 Hz 1H 8.16 d J 15 Hz 2H . C NMR CDCl 125 Hz 41.0 50.3 114.7 114.8 118.1 126.4 127.9 128.0 134.0 134.2 139.2 139.5 140.2 153.2 164.1. ESI HRMS M H calculated 458.0415 observed 458.0421 for CHNOS.

Solid yield 10 . H NMR MeOH d 500 MHz 5.09 s 2H 6.98 dd J 5 Hz 1H 7.08 dd J 5 Hz 1H 7.23 d 1H 7.29 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.80 dd J 10 Hz 5 Hz 1H 7.82 dd J 5 Hz 1H 7.96 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.25 d J 5 Hz 1H .

Yellow solid yield 43 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 5.16 d J 5 Hz 2H 5.74 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 7.11 t J 5 Hz 2H 7.22 s 1H 7.31 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.92 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.00 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.23 t J 5 Hz 2H . ESI HRMS M H calculated 446.0215 observed 446.0220 for CHFNOS.

Solid yield 35 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 5.16 d J 5 Hz 2H 5.78 t J 5 Hz 1H 7.04 7.06 mult 1H 7.32 7.33 mult 1H 7.33 mult 1H 7.58 d J 10 Hz 2H 7.93 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.00 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.05 d J 10 Hz 2H . . This compound is commercially available and reported see e.g. Ivachtchenko et al. 18 14 5282 5290 2010 Epub 2010 May 24 .

Crude material was purified by flash column chromatography using pure DCM AcOH 1 to isolate SM then changed to DCM MeOH 50 1 plus AcOH 1 . Solid yield 32 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 1.19 d J 5 Hz 6H 2.88 mult 1H 5.46 d J 5 Hz 2H 5.61 t J 5 Hz 1H 7.47 7.51 mult 1H 7.53 d J 5 Hz 2H 7.55 s 1H 7.56 s 1H 7.62 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.91 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.95 d J 5 Hz 1H 7.98 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.10 d J 5 Hz 1H 8.13 d J 10 Hz 2H . LC ESI LRMS M H calculated 514.1 observed 514.0 for CHNOS.

After microwave irradiation the reaction mixture was treated with 1 M HCl 10 eq stirred 10 minutes and then extracted with DCM 3 . The organic layer was washed with HCl aq. 1M three times and then was dried over NaSO. The organic layer was concentrated in vacuo and the product was precipitated by the addition of MeOH and was then isolated by vacuum filtration. The final product was purified by triteration with a small amount of CHCl3 to generate the final product 3k as a white solid yield 15 . H NMR acetone d 300 MHz 1.94 s J 18.0 Hz 3H 5.15 s 2H 7.01 dd J 9.0 3.0 Hz 1H 7.30 7.31 mult 1H 7.36 7.39 mult 1H . 7.72 d J 6.0 Hz 2H 7.97 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 8.26 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 8.34 d J 6.0 Hz 1H . C NMR acetone d 125 MHz 25.0 t J 28.8 Hz 39.7 114.5 116.7 125.3 125.8 t J 5.0 Hz 127.0 127.1 127.0 131.4 135.6 139.1 141.0 141.9 142.6 t J 27.5 Hz 144.6 153.7. LC ESI HRMS M H calculated 492.0356 observed 492.0423 for CHFNOS.

Initial SAR was deduced from analysis of 273 commercially available triazolothieno pyrimidine analogues of the UT B inhibitor UTB 14 also called inhibitor 1 in this example . UT B inhibition was measured by an erythrocyte lysis assay. Of the compounds tested 103 compounds inhibited UT B urea permeability by 60 at 25 M. Twelve compounds had IC

SAR analysis indicated greatest potency for thiophene 2 methylamine at the Rgroup. Replacing the heteroaryl sulfur atom by oxygen thiophene furan increased ICapproximately 10 fold from 22 to 239 nM compare UTB 14 and 2 bp Table 1 . Bulky Rgroups constrained cyclic rings such as morpholine 2bq IC5.6 mM and piperidine IC 25 mM not shown greatly reduced activity. The reduced activity with inclusion of a bulky group is consistent with our previous docking model of UTB 14 to a homology model of UT B described above showing a sterically tight fit near the amidine linkage. Analogs containing a flexible chain with a terminal ether group 2cb IC212 nM showed moderate potency. At R only compounds with alkyl and halide substituted aryl sulfonyl ring were available. 4 Methylphenyl and 2 5 dimethylphenyl reduced inhibition potency whereas 3 4 dimethyl 4 isopropyl and 4 ethyl increased potency compare 2 bp and 2cs . Halide substitution also reduced potency 2bi . Having a two or three carbon hydrophobic group at the meta and para position of the aryl ring might increase potency due to a tighter binding into hydrophobic binding pocket of UT B. summarizes the major findings of SAR analysis of commercially available analogues of UTB 14.

In vitro analysis of metabolic stability was done using LC ESI MS following compound incubation with hepatic microsomes in the presence of NADPH. shows kinetics of the microsomal degradation of selected compounds. UTB 14 showed rapid degradation with tapproximately 2.8 min with appearance of metabolic products at 16 AMU 1 oxygen or 32 2 oxygen as determined . As observed by the relative growth of the peaks at m z 472 versus 488 the first oxidation event appears to be more rapid than the second. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory UTB 14 may undergo rapid hydroxylation at either the benzylic see e.g. Khojasteh Bakht et al. 2003 33 1201 1210 or thiophene 2 methylamine linking carbons positions that are thought to stabilize radical intermediates . Metabolic stability was measured of several analogues of UTB 14 Table 1 . Analogues with Rsubstituted with para chlorophenyl showed greater stability 2bg 2bi likely because of absence of the benzylic hydroxylation site and also due to occupation of the para position which is a known site in P450 metabolism see e.g. Baldwin et al. 1999 48 424 32 . Analogs with Rbearing electron rich benzylamine 2ad 2aj 2bc 2bt also showed improved metabolic stability however these analogs have poorer UT B inhibition potency when compared to UTB 14.

SAR of commercial analogs of UTB 14 indicated thiophene 2 methylamine as the optimal Rsubstituent for inhibition potency. The optimal Rsubstituent was not identified. A library of focused analogs was prepared to identify aspects of the SAR that were missing from the commercially available inhibitor set Table 1 with the aim of maintaining or improving UT B inhibition potency and improving metabolic stability. Most of the synthesized compounds were designed to maintain the Rsubstituent as thiophene 2 methylamine while investigating a small number of alkyl 3a 3c alkoxy 3d 3f halo 3h 3i and heteroaryl 3g substituents at R see Table 2 . A small number of additional inhibitors with variation of R substitutions for thiophene 2 methylamine was also explored 3b 3e and 3j to confirm the importance of this heterocycle. One novel compound 3k the 1 1 difluoroethyl analog of UTB 14 was synthesized to be bioisosteric with ethyl but lacking the benzylic hydrogens that are likely involved in the poor metabolic stability of UTB 14.

The general synthetic approach begins with the synthesis of aryl sulfonyl acetonitrile building blocks General Scheme 1 described herein . More specifically as shown in Scheme 1a commercially available substituted arylthiols 4a 4g were alkylated with bromoacetonitrile to generate the corresponding sulfides 5a 5g which were then oxidized with mCPBA to give the desired aryl sulfonyl acetonitriles 6a 6g. An additional variation of this building block 4 difluoroethylphenyl was prepared by a multi step approach General Scheme 2 and Scheme 2a described herein due to unavailability of the precursor benzenethiol. As such 1 bromo 4 1 1 difluoroethyl benzene 7 was transformed under Pd catalyzed conditions with the Xanthphos ligand analogous to the Buchwald Hartwig reaction to generate sulfide ester 7. This was oxidized to sulfone 9 converted to primary amide 10 and dehydrated using phosphorous pentoxide to the desired 4 difluoroethyl aryl sulfone acetonitrile 6 or 6h .

The second key synthetic precursor is a 3 azidothiophene ester General Scheme 3 and Scheme 3a . 3 Bromothiophene 2 carboxaldehyde 11a was azidated by nucleophilic aromatic substitution to generate 3 azidothiophene 12a. This aldehyde was oxidized with the Lindgren reaction see e.g. Lindgren et al. 27 888 1973 to generate carboxylic acid 13a which was alkylated with isobutyl bromide to 2 azidothiophene 1 isobutyl ester 14a . Note that the reactants and intermediates in Scheme 3 are also described in for the synthesis of UT 14. No difference in these reactants and intermediates is intended by differences in numbering of same. For example reactant 1 in is the same as reactant 11 in Scheme 3. The attachment of the building blocks is illustrated in Scheme 4 described herein. The aryl sulfonyl acetonitriles 6a 6h were reacted with base to form the nitrile enolates and coupled with the azidothiophene ester 14a followed by in situ lactamation to generate the core heterocycles 15a 15h . The conversion of this intermediate to the final library of amidine containing compounds 3a 3k was affected with PyBOP with microwave irradiation. The use of PyBOP with microwave irradiation was based on conditions using the related reagent BOP without heating see e.g. Wan et al. 8 2425 28 2006 Wan et al. 72 10194 210 2007 however the low temperature conditions were not successful with triazolothienopyrimidines for BOP or PyBOP. With microwave assistance PyBOP readily caused quantitative conversion to the desired amidine products and was chosen over BOP due to its carcinogenic byproduct hexamethylphosphoramide HMPA .

The experimental detail for biological assays used for characterizing compounds shown in Tables 1 and 2 is provided below.

Whole blood was collected from 8 12 week old 25 35 g wild type mice in a CD1 genetic background by orbital puncture following subcutaneous injection of sodium heparin. Procedures were approved by the UCSF Committee on Animal Research. Human venous blood was collected into heparinized tubes stored at 4 C. and used within 48 h.

Whole blood was diluted to a hematocrit of 1 in PBS containing 1.25 M acetamide and 5 mM glucose. 100 L of the erythrocyte suspension was added to each well of a 96 well round bottom microplate to which inhibitor was added from DMSO stock solution. After 10 min incubation 20 L of the erythrocyte suspension was added rapidly to one well of a 96 well plate Costar Corning N.Y. containing 180 L isosmolar buffer PBS containing 1 DMSO . Erythrocyte lysis was quantified by absorbance at 710 nm as described Levin et al. supra 2007 . Percentage erythrocyte lysis was calculated using control values from the same plate as lysis 100 A A A A where Ais the absorbance value from a test well.

Measurements were done using a Hi Tech Sf 51 instrument Wiltshire UK . Whole blood mouse or human was diluted in PBS hematocrit approximately 0.5 incubated with inhibitor for 5 min and then subjected to a 100 mM inwardly directed urea gradient. The kinetics of increasing cell volume caused by urea influx was measured as the time course of 90 scattered light intensity at 530 nm. Urea permeability and percentage inhibition were computed as described see e.g. Levin et al. supra 2007 .

Compounds each at 5 M were incubated for specified times at 37 C. with rat liver microsomes 1 mg protein ml Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. in potassium phosphate buffer 100 mM containing 1 mM NADPH. The mixture was then chilled on ice and 0.5 ml of ice cold ethyl acetate was added. Samples were centrifuged for 15 min at 3 000 rpm the supernatant evaporated to dryness and the residue was dissolved in 150 l mobile phase acetonitrile water 3 1 containing 0.1 formic acid for LC MS. Reverse phase HPLC separations were carried out using a Waters C18 column 2.1 100 mm 3.5 mm particle size equipped with a solvent delivery system Waters model 2690 Milford Mass. . The solvent system consisted of a linear gradient from 5 to 95 acetonitrile run over 16 min 0.2 mL min flow rate .

Compound 3k described herein was formulated in 5 DMSO 2.5 Tween 80 and 2.5 PEG400 in HO as described above in Example 7. Mice age 8 10 weeks 25 35 g were administered 300 L of formulation without or with 3k by intraperitoneal injection. Urine blood and kidney samples were collected and processed see Example 7 . dDAVP 1 deamino 8 D arginine vasopressin 1 g kg was given 1 h after formulation. Urine osmolality was measured in water diluted urine samples by freezing point osmometry. Kidneys were homogenized in acetic acid 100 L per 1 g tissue and ethyl acetate 10 mL per 1 g tissue . The homogenate was centrifuged at 3 000 rpm for 15 min. Calibration standards were prepared in kidney homogenates from untreated mice to which was added known amounts of 3k. The ethyl acetate containing supernatant was dried under nitrogen and the residue dissolved in acetonitrile HO 3 1 containing 0.1 formic acid. HPLC was done on a XTERRA MS C18 column 2.1 100 mm 3.5 m particle size Waters Milford Mass. connected to a solvent delivery system model 2690 Waters . The solvent system consisted of a linear gradient from 5 to 95 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid over 16 min 0.2 mL min flow . 3k was detected by absorbance at 262 nm. Mass spectra were acquired on a mass spectrometer Alliance HT 2790 ZQ Waters using positive ion detection. For analysis of blood and urine fluids were diluted with equal volume of water and extracted with ethyl acetate.

The ICand in vitro metabolic stability of synthesized analogs were determined Table 2 . In general analogs lacking stabilized benzylic carbon for hydroxylation showed improved metabolic stability 3c 3d 3i . The compound 3k showed both excellent inhibition potency and metabolic stability and was further characterized. UT B inhibition by 3k was measured by stopped flow light scattering which provides a definitive measure of compound potency. The assay measures the kinetics of cell volume following rapid mixing of an erythrocyte suspension with a urea containing solution. shows representative light scattering data for inhibition of UT B urea transport in mouse erythrocytes. Each curve consists of a rapid upward phase representing osmotic cell shrinkage followed by a slower downward phase representing urea and water influx. The kinetics of the downward phase was greatly slowed by 3k in a concentration dependent manner. summarizes concentration inhibition data for mouse and human UT B. Deduced ICwere 23 and 15 nM respectively.

The pharmacokinetics and renal accumulation of compound 3k was measured in mice following intraperitoneal bolus administration of 400 g 3k in a suitable formulation chosen for efficient dissolution and absorption. Blood urine and kidney tissues were obtained at different times and 3k was assayed by LC MS after organic extraction comparing with appropriate standards. shows the LC MS calibration for blood measurements left and the kinetics of 3k concentration right shows the kinetics of 3k concentration in kidney and urine. These data show high concentrations 

The urearetic activity of 3k was assayed by measurement of urine osmolality in mice under maximal antidiuretic stimulation by the vasopressin analog dDAVP. dDAVP was administrated 1 h after intraperitoneal injection of formulation without or with 3k. shows that dDAVP increased urine osmolality to 3 Osm kg HO in control formulation alone mice which was reduced by approximately 0.5 Osm kg HO in mice receiving 3k. This reduction in urine osmolality is similar to that produced by UT B gene knockout see e.g. Yang et al. 277 10633 137 2002 .

The various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. All U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be modified if necessary to employ concepts of the various patents applications and publications to provide yet further embodiments.

These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in light of the above detailed description. In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly the claims are not limited by the disclosure.

