---

title: Cross channel optimization systems and methods
abstract: The inventive subject matter is generally directed to a cross channel optimization system, methods, and related software which provide for the conducting of experiments and/or optimization of digital content across a plurality of external content systems to user of the external content systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09477930&OS=09477930&RS=09477930
owner: ACCENTURE GLOBAL SERVICES LIMITED
number: 09477930
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20130304
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 518 615 filed on Jun. 10 2009 which is a 35 U.S.C 371 National Stage filing of International Application No. PCT US2007 087200 filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty on Dec. 12 2007 and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 870 217 filed Dec. 15 2006 the contents both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The inventive subject matter relates generally to the field of experimentation and more particularly to experimentation and optimization of the delivery of content to users within a digital network such as the Internet. By the testing of marketing tactics propositions advertisements and offers businesses can optimize their campaigns and customer management procedures. For instance an on line retailer might test the effectiveness of different headlines and benefit statements in on line advertising. An advertiser might test placing different advertisements across different advertising placements offered by different publishers. A bank might test different contact and offer strategies in direct mail and outbound telemarketing to cross sell financial services based on changes to a customer s account balances. A telecommunications company might test different offers and bundles of services to existing customers over the Internet and to their customer s mobile phones. Increasingly businesses are advertising across a variety of mediums including search engines banner advertising contextual advertising interactive TV while completing transactions from their own web site. While the flow across these channels for a prospect may be seamless and driven optimal campaign elements across these different systems is challenging for businesses.

The inventive subject matter is generally directed to a cross channel optimization system methods and related software which provide for the conducting of experiments and or optimization of digital content across a plurality of external content systems to user of the external content systems.

More particularly the inventive subject matter addresses the challenges of the prior art by for example automating the process of managing various content elements across multiple channels web site interactive TV stations banners email direct mail outbound telephone calls in store promotions conducting experiments across these channels in an integrated fashion determining the optimal rules across these channels to maximize a business outcome and ultimately in publishing optimal rules across the channels. While the inventive subject matter is generally illustrated in the context of advertisement promotion and marketing directed to commercial prospects it is not limited to such fields and can be used to optimize delivery of content to anyone who is presented digital content. Hereinafter the term user refers to anyone presented digital content in either commercial or non commercial settings.

The inventive subject matter extends Automated On Line Experimentation to Measure Users Behavior to Treatment for A Set of Content Elements U.S. Pat. No. 6 934 748 granted Aug. 23 2005 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if recited in full herein for all purposes to coordinate experiments across different classes of external content systems external content systems interconnected by a digital network. Different types of external content systems include websites portals ad servers advertising networks video servers CRM systems business intelligence systems web analytics platforms content management systems and search engine system. These external content systems maintain or access digital content advertisements and data and deliver this to users over the internet and other digital networks.

In one possible embodiment the inventive subject matter is directed to a computer system for coordinating the systematic variation of content delivered to users via a digital data network during interactive sessions between the users and a plurality of external content systems the systems having one or more sets of rules being stored on the system for the systematic variation of content into digital perceptibly renderable treatments for presentation to users of an external content system how the various treatments will be rendered to users across each external content system how the experiment will be tracked across systems and the delivery of the variations to users and a programmed rules generator that can deliver one or more of the sets of rules as specific programmatic commands that via the digital network can be passed to and executed by the external content systems. In this and other embodiments the computer system may further include a data collator that collects data on number of times that each treatment of content elements was presented and or what users did when presented with a treatment. In this and other embodiments the computer system may communicate to the external content systems via a plurality of different plug ins each of which translates one or more sets of rules into a form that can be executed by an external content system. In this and other embodiments the computer system may be configured to receive data based on sampling of users during an experiment and to determine which users will be assigned to receive experimental content and which will be used as experimental controls. In this and other embodiments the rules that govern the delivery of the treatments to users may be situation specific rules including experiment rules prediction rules or user defined rules. In this and other embodiments the computer system may implement statistical sampling procedures to deliver the different variations to respective users. In this and other embodiments the computer system may include a model engine that identifies the degree to which the variations influence the behaviour of users. In this and other embodiments the model engine of the computer system may create one or more behavioral models that provide abstract descriptions of observed user behaviour based on recorded actions in response to variations. In this and other embodiments the model engine may predict the likelihood of future actions by users in response to variations. In this and other embodiments the model engine may use the predicted likelihood of future actions by users in response to variations to determine the variations that are optimal for a predetermined outcome. In this and other embodiments the model engine may deliver the recommended treatments.

In another possible embodiment the inventive subject matter is directed to a computer system that is configured to conduct an experiment comprising systematically varying a set of digital perceptibly renderable content elements into treatments for presentation to users of external content systems communicating to different classes of external content systems data for controlling managing generating or delivering treatments to users the data being specific to each class of system. In this and other embodiments the computer system may be configured to determine how the treatments will rendered of different classes of external content systems. In this and other embodiments the computer system may be configured to determine how an experiment will be tracked across external content systems. In this and other embodiments the computer system may be configured to deliver via a digital data network experiment rules to an external content system according to specific parameters of a class of external content systems.

In another possible embodiment the inventive subject matter is directed to an automated method having steps for systematically varying a set of content elements into digital perceptibly renderable treatments for presentation to users of external content systems and delivering via a digital data network treatments to a plurality of different external content system in different classes according to specific parameters of a class of external content systems.

In another possible embodiment the inventive subject matter is directed to an automated method having steps for generating predictions on how users who are to be presented a treatment comprising a set of digital perceptibly renderable content elements will react to the treatment the predictions being generated from data collected from one or more experiments that tested user behavior to content elements in the set and the experiments being run over different classes of external content systems and delivering treatments to users in accordance with the predictions to increase the probability of a desired user behavior in response to the presented content.

In another possible embodiment the inventive subject matter is directed to an automated system for delivery of content having means for creating a model of behavior based on data collected from experiments conducted using digital perceptibly renderable treatments comprising discrete digital content elements that were automatically generated according to experimental design rules governing the composition and delivery of treatments to users over a data network wherein the experiments were run over different classes of external content systems and using the model to generate predictions of how a user will react to a particular treatment.

In another possible embodiment the inventive subject matter is directed to an automated method for delivery of content the method creating a model of behavior based on data collected from experiments conducted using digital perceptibly renderable treatments comprising discrete content elements that were automatically generated according to experimental design rules governing the composition and delivery of variations to users over a data network wherein the experiments were run over different classes of external content systems using the model to generate predictions of how a user will react to a particular treatment and communicating to an external content system over a data network a discrete perceptibly renderable digital content treatment to a user in accordance with a prediction and or executable instructions for the external system to generate a perceptibly renderable digital content treatment for a user in accordance with a prediction.

In another possible embodiment the inventive subject matter is directed to a machine readable medium having a set of instructions for creating a model of behavior based on data collected from experiments conducted using digital perceptibly renderable treatments comprising discrete content elements that were automatically generated according to experimental design rules governing the composition and delivery of variations to users over a data network wherein the experiments were run over different classes of external content systems using the model to generate predictions of how a user will react to a particular treatment and communicating to an external content system over a data network a discrete perceptibly renderable digital content treatment to a user in accordance with a prediction and or executable instructions for the external system to generate a perceptibly renderable digital content treatment for a user in accordance with a prediction.

The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive list of embodiments and features of the inventive subject matter. Persons skilled in the art are capable of appreciating other embodiments and features from the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings. The term inventive subject matter should not be construed as meaning that this document describes only a single inventive concept. It is a term of convenience applicable to various inventive concepts disclosed herein some of which are represented in the claims appended hereto.

The inventive subject matter is generally directed to a Cross Channel Optimization System COOS embodiments or features of which are depicted in which provides for the conducting of experiments and or optimization of digital content across a plurality of external content systems to user of the external content systems.

According to one embodiment of the inventive subject matter outlined in an automated CCOS system includes an experiment engine a data collator a modeling engine and a rules generators which are connected to various external content systems via application interfaces which hereinafter may be referred to as plug ins. These external content systems ECS could be a web site an internet ad server system a content delivery engine an advertising network system an advertising auction system a mobile phone content system a digital video server a call center application a digital lead generation system an affiliate marketing system a software as a service application or any other system that controls the delivery of content to users. The use of the term plug in does not imply any particular hardware location on which the plug in resides.

Some specific functions of the plug ins may include translate instructions from the rules generator into native instructions usable by each ECS in view of the specific constraints and manage or implement requirements applicable to a particular ECS.

One function of the experiment engine is to determine or enable the system manager to select an appropriate experimental design from the total set of desired digital content elements to be tested. Another function of the experiment engine is to manage any campaign specific content related to the content elements. The experiment engine generates a specific set of experiment rules that determine how the different content elements should be combined across each of the systems. The content elements could be for example specific data text graphics or information which is managed and delivered to the end user. The content elements could also be abstract instructions which are used by any combination of ECSs to determine the content to present to any user. The experiment engine also generates a unique set of tracking codes or user identification numbers so that each of the systems can pass information about the users back to the rules generator to enable it to determine the optimal content elements to be delivered by each system.

The data collator collects data from each of the ECSs in terms of the number of times that each combination treatment of content elements was presented and what users did when presented with a treatment. The data collator then combines these data sources to provide an integrated data set suitable for analysis by the modeling engine. Some specific functions of the data collator may include automatically access and collect information from the external content systems add additional information to these data sets in terms of time and date the source of the data and or other available user data collate these data sets into a single data file by matching data according to tracking codes or user identification numbers defined by the experiment engine.

The modeling engine analyzes the collated data and determines the independent and inter related effects from each of the content elements on user behavior. Some specific functions of the modeling engine may include provide comprehensive reports on the content elements performance in driving desired user behavior provide comprehensive reports on any campaign and collate these data sets into a single data file. For instance the system would determine the relative impact of users propensity to purchase particular products depending upon which combination of message and image were presented to them in advertisements. Another example could include a bank determining the relative profit of presenting different rates and rewards offers by measuring their impact on user credit card applications. In another example a telecommunications company could quantify the impact of providing different call rates on usage and re contracting of telecommunications offers.

The rules generator passes rules via the plug ins to each of the systems about the content elements that should be presented. These rules may either be driven by the experiment engine or from the modeling engine as the optimal rules. Some specific functions of the rules generator may include pass instructions regarding the combination of content elements to be presented by the ECSs to the plug ins in either a scheduled or real time modes. In the case of a real time mode instructions may be conditional based on which ECS is requesting an instruction which content elements have been previously presented and any other contextual or user information that is available.

A technical advantage of the inventive subject matter includes providing an automated system which performs coordinated on line experiments across a set of external content systems which may be under different constraints for presenting a treatment. By coordinating the experiments confounding the impact of each the content elements can be prevented. In other words the system reduces the probability of correlating by chance the presentation of each of the independent content elements which would preclude analysis whereby each elements impact is assessed. This is is done through the use of statistical experimental designs which enable the estimation of the effects of each content element while all other content elements are either held constant or controlled for through the delivery of the specific treatment variations determined by the experimental design.

The inventive subject matter relating to the COOS as illustrated in and described herein may be implemented in the following context of the prior art system of which is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 934 748.

Turning first to the nomenclature of the specification the detailed description which follows is represented largely in terms of processes and symbolic representations of operations performed by conventional computer components such as a central processing unit CPU or processor associated with a general purpose computer system memory storage devices for the processor and connected pixel oriented display devices. These operations include the manipulation of data bits by the processor and the maintenance of these bits within data structures resident in one or more of the memory storage devices. Such data structures impose a physical organization upon the collection of data bits stored within computer memory and represent specific electrical or magnetic elements. These symbolic representations are the means used by those skilled in the art of computer programming and computer construction to most effectively convey teachings and discoveries to others skilled in the art.

For purposes of this discussion a process method routine or sub routine is generally considered to be a sequence of computer executed steps leading to a desired result. These steps generally require manipulations of physical quantities. Usually although not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It is conventional for those skilled in the art to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters text terms numbers records files or the like. It should be kept in mind however that these and some other terms should be associated with appropriate physical quantities for computer operations and that these terms are merely conventional labels applied to physical quantities that exist within and during operation of the computer.

It should also be understood that manipulations within the computer are often referred to in terms such as adding comparing moving or the like which are often associated with manual operations performed by a human operator. It must be understood that no involvement of the human operator may be necessary or even desirable in the inventive subject matter. The operations described herein are machine operations performed in conjunction with the human operator or user that interacts with the computer or computers.

In addition it should be understood that the programs processes methods and the like described herein are but an exemplifying implementation of the inventive subject matter and are not related or limited to any particular computer apparatus or computer language. Rather various types of general purpose computing machines or devices may be used with programs constructed in accordance with the teachings described herein. Similarly it may prove advantageous to construct a specialized apparatus to perform the method steps described herein by way of dedicated computer systems with hard wired logic or programs stored in non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM .

Content system and communication management system may each include a suitable combination of software and or hardware for performing the functionality described herein.

It is contemplated that systems and may be maintained managed and or operated by a provider of content to users . Such content provider can be an entity which operates or maintains a portal or any other website through which content can be delivered. For example content provider can be on line retailer of merchandise an on line news service and the like. Each user may visit the website operated by content provider for example to view information and perhaps to complete a commercial transaction. Users can include individuals organizations or their agents which can be human or virtual.

Content system serves as a repository for content . Content system can be implemented at least in part with any system suitable for storing content. For example content system may include a content server system from Interwoven Corporation or a STORY server system from Vignette Corporation. In general content can be any data or information that is presentable visually audibly or otherwise to users . Thus content can include written text images graphics animation video music voice and the like or any combination thereof. For example if content provider is a on line retailer of merchandise content may include images of various goods offered by the retailer textual descriptions and price quotes for each good detailed information about on line ordering graphics or animation to capture a user s attention etc. Similarly if content provider is a web portal content may include textual listings or directories for various areas of interest icons interactive or non interactive images of products hyperlinks to other websites banner advertisements etc. If content provider is an on line news service content may include textual information for various news stories photographs and or illustrations to accompany at least some of the stories video and or audio clips for late breaking stories listings for weather reports in various geographic areas maps for these geographic areas etc. Content from content system may be provided for any of a variety of purposes or applications such as for example product development public relations customer service advertising electronic commerce and the like.

Content which can be stored in digital form may be broken down or reduced to a set of elemental components. An elemental component can be for example a text file an image file an audio file a video file etc. These elemental components may be combined and or formatted in a number of different ways or structures for presenting content to users .

Each separate combination and or formatting of content constitutes a content structure or treatment. A content structure can be for example a particular implementation of a web page at a given moment. More specifically at the given instance of time the web page may contain particular text icons images and or video located at particular positions on the screen particular visual background shading or color particular borders for dividing up the screen particular audio music or speech and the like.

The way content is structured may affect or impact a user s behavior or reaction to the content. For example a user may react positively to a web page having a neutral background color e.g. gray and negatively to a web page having a bolder background color e.g. fuchsia . A user s reaction may be tied to a particular desired objective or outcome. An outcome generally can relate to any behavior by a user at a website that content provider would like to influence or manage. This behavior can include clickthroughs of the website by a user time spent by the user on requests for information number and nature of pages viewed by the user length of time spent at the website by the user repeat sessions purchases of goods services offered on the websites submission of information registration login personalization reading or other related behaviors. For example for an on line retailer of merchandise one desired objective outcome can be the completion of a transaction or sale. For a web portal a desired objective outcome can be increased stickiness i.e. the amount of time that a user spends at the website and the number of repeat visits to the website . As such structured content may be meaningful in the context of its relationship to a desired objective outcome.

Because various objectives outcomes may be important to content provider communication management system is provided to manage the content and structures for same which is ultimately delivered or presented to users thereby influencing the behavior of users in such a way as to achieve the desired objectives outcomes. Communication management system supplements the functionality of the existing content system as described herein. In one embodiment communication management system can be implemented as a software based or software driven product which can be bundled or integrated with an existing content system of content provider . Communication management system enhances any application of structured content by identifying the linkage or connection between content and desired objectives and providing feedback in relation to what structured content should be delivered to users in the future.

To accomplish this communication management system may cooperate with content system to break down any given content to its elemental components create one or more content structures or treatments for presenting the content to users design experiments to test the behavior or reaction of users to each treatment deliver the treatments over a suitable data network to one or more users in controlled experiments collect information or data on the outcomes objectives for each experiment generate predictive models using the collected information and modify or customize the structure of content using the predictive models.

To optimize the effectiveness of the structured content content provider determines its objectives for the associated portal or website in relation to the behavior of users and decides what elements of the communication are relevant or have potential to influence that behavior. For example content provider may want to optimize its communication to achieve better match between relevant content and user preferences in order to increase return visits of users in general to the portal or website. Content system and communication management system facilitate the identification and specification of the relevant elemental components the specification of various alternative structures for content e.g. messages and means of communication and assign control variables and values to these structures for implementation. As such content system and communication management system may implement a systematic approach for the design and development of interactive communication to optimize enhance or otherwise improve for example product development public relations customer service advertising effectiveness electronic commerce or any other application which can benefit from real time customization of content . Content system and communication management system may thus collectively implement a system for managing the delivery of content to users .

Content system and communication management system may be integrated with or connected to a suitable data network or digital system i.e. a system augmented by digital services. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements such connection or coupling can be physical or logical. In general a data network or digital system can provide or support an interactive channel by which users may interact with content system and communication management system . Examples of such data networks or digital systems include telephone call centers cellular networks pager networks automated teller machine ATM networks instant messaging systems local area networks LANs wide area networks Intranets Extranets interactive television services or as depicted Internet .

Internet is an interconnection of computer clients and servers located throughout the world and exchanging information according to Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Internetwork Packet eXchange Sequence Packet eXchange IPX SPX AppleTalk or other suitable protocol. Internet supports the distributed application known as the World Wide Web. Web servers maintain websites each comprising one or more web pages at which information is made available for viewing. Each website or web page can be identified by a respective uniform resource locator URL and may be supported by documents formatted in any suitable language such as for example hypertext markup language HTML extended markup language XML or standard generalized markup language SGML . Clients may locally execute a web browser program. A web browser is a computer program that allows the exchange of information with the World Wide Web. Any of a variety of web browsers are available such as NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR from Netscape Communications Corp. INTERNET EXPLORER from Microsoft Corporation Firefox from the Mozilla Foundation and others that allow convenient access and navigation of the Internet . Information may be communicated from a web server to a client using a suitable protocol such as for example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP or File Transfer Protocol FTP . Internet allows interactive communication between users and the content and communication management systems and .

In one embodiment content system and communication management system enable content provider to automatically customized content delivered to users via a data network such as the Internet . Due to the widespread popularity of the Internet content system and communication management system have the capability to reach a relatively large number of users thereby allowing significant segmentation of users and experimentation in a large pool. The remainder of this description focuses primarily on a system and method in the context of the Internet but it should be understood that the inventive subject matter is broadly applicable to any data network which is capable of reaching or connecting a relatively large number of users to provide a wide cross section of users. Such data network can be for example WebTV InteractiveTV WAP mobile services or any other interactive channel.

Content system and communication management system can provide a completely automated solution by dynamically segmenting users automatically generating personalization rules and delivering web pages offers for products services or other interactive communication to achieve desired objectives. In other words content system and communication management system can determine what matters to users and then use this information to optimize interactive communications to achieve specific outcomes objectives such as for example increasing sales and profits improving electronic marketing effectiveness and powering specific business intelligence applications.

In content system content store functions to store content which may be delivered and presented to various users via for example the Internet . This content may include for example images and or descriptions of various goods or services which are being offered for sale price quotes for each good or service detailed information about on line ordering listings for various areas of interest links to one or more websites banner advertisements etc. All or a portion of this content can be maintained in digital form. Content store may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such as random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment content store may comprise a relational database.

User interface is connected to content store . User interface generally functions to provide or support an interface between content system and one or more users each using a suitable client computer connected to Internet . User interface may receive requests for content from the users . An exemplary request can be a request for a web page displaying a particular line of products and may specify a particular identifier for the web page such as for example a uniform resource locator URL . Furthermore the web page request can be related to a user s action of clicking on a particular hyperlink on a web page. In response to such requests user interface delivers or presents content . The interconnectivity of components of user interface may be supported with suitable communication hubs routers or otherwise as may be used in the underlying architecture of the data network e.g. Internet responsible for delivery of content.

Allocator module which is connected to content store may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. Allocator module generally functions to allocate i.e. cause to be delivered content to various users . Allocation can be done for example based on the following information available about users and commands from other elements or modules within content system or communication management system which may place any given user in an experiment or deliver content according to predictions and models.

As such allocator module may be responsive to requests for content from users . For each request allocator module may allocate a content structure or treatment for purposes of experimentation or based on a prediction of what will achieve a desired outcome objective. To accomplish this allocator module may apply situation specific rules such as experiment rules and prediction rules described herein . Also allocator module may sample all traffic at the website or portal in order for example to determine which users will be assigned to receive controlled communication i.e. specific content . Thus allocator module provides guidance to content system on what content to display on a user by user basis. Allocator module is coupled to observation module in communication management system and may store observation data therein on behalf of the content system .

Allocator module also supports or provides an interface between communication management system and content system . As such allocator module may include a suitable application programming interface API which can interact and integrate with Web server software e.g. available from NETSCAPE APACHE or JAVA SERVLET and management application software e.g. VIGNETTE SPECTRA or BROADVISION .

The functionality of allocator module can be performed by any suitable processor such as a main frame file server workstation or other suitable data processing facility running appropriate software and operating under the control of any suitable operating system such as MS DOS Apple Macintosh OS WINDOWS XP or VISTA WINDOWS 2000 OS 2 UNIX XENIX GEOS and the like.

Communication management system is in communication with content system . Referring to communication management system experiment engine is coupled to content store and allocator module both in content system . Experiment engine may receive definitions for various experiments and content . Experiment engine may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. Experiment engine generally functions to support the creation and execution of one or more experiments to test the behavior or reaction of users to particular content and or the particular way in which the content is formatted i.e. treatments . For each experiment experiment engine may generate a set of rules which dictate how treatments are allocated during the course of the experiment. The experiments created and executed by experiment engine may include for example full factorial experiments and designed fractions of full factorial experiments also referred to as simply designed experiments .

In a full factorial experiment for a given set of content elements every possible combination of content elements is considered. Each content element may constitute a factor to be considered and analyzed. A full factorial experiment allows estimation of the effect of each factor in isolation. That is the results from a full factorial experiment include all information about the main effect that each content element has on the observed outcome independent of every other content element. A full factorial experiment also estimates the effect of each and every interaction between all possible combinations of factors.

For example consider a case in which there are two types of content elements a banner advertisement and a text message which can be displayed below the banner advertisement. Each content element may have two variations. For banner advertisement the variations can be static and moving. For messages the variations can be click here now and save 20 . Thus there are four possible combinations that can be viewed 1 static banner advertisement with a click message 2 static banner advertisement with a save message 3 moving banner advertisement with a click message and 4 moving banner advertisement with a save message. The main effects for each element i.e. static moving click and save as well as the interaction effects for all possible combinations of the same can be observed. Thus the entire space of all possible effects can be estimated. Because a full factorial experiment considers all possible alternatives for content structure it supports a very thorough analysis of observed outcomes.

As the number of variables in an experiment are increased linearly however the number of combinations of content elements increases exponentially. That is when another content element or variation is added to a given experiment the number of combinations for the experiment can increase significantly. For example for four content elements each having three variations eighty one combinations are possible. For five content elements each having four variations the number of possible combinations is 1024. In view of this a full factorial experiment can produce more combinations than reasonable for purposes of experimentation i.e. the time required to satisfy the sampling requirements may be unacceptably long given the rate of hits to a website.

Designed experiments reduce the number of combinations required for experimentation relative to full factorial experiments while still allowing measurement and estimation of the effects that are of interest. Designed experiments typically focus on a relatively small group of effects of particular interest while controlling for all other effects. Designed experiments use an experimental design to control specific events and the conditions under which those events occur thus allowing the effect of such events in relation to some observed outcome to be explicitly measured and estimated. In other words a designed experiment is a systematic way to vary one or more variables which can be controlled e.g. background color of an advertisement screen placement of advertisement size of advertisement and investigate the effects such variances have on one or more outcomes of interest. Designed experiments may consider only the main effects of the variables. Accordingly designed experiments reduce the information involved in an experiment e.g. the number of combinations thus offering a potentially vast reduction in sampling requirements e.g. the minimum number of users required to participate in the experiment .

For example for five elements each having four variations if it is assumed that there are no important interaction effects experiment engine may create a designed experiment that will allow measurement and estimation of all the main effects i.e. those that do not involve interactions with only sixteen combinations rather than the 1024 combinations required for a full factorial experiment.

Experiment engine may generate designed experiments in a number of ways. For example experiment engine may include or incorporate various look up tables such as for example tables published by the U.S. National Bureau of Standards. In addition to tables designed experiments can be generated using algorithms which when run will create the appropriate tables meeting the criteria for which the algorithm is designed. These tables and algorithms can be used to identify appropriate constraints upon behavioral models described herein . Furthermore designed experiments can be created by random selection for variable values or via programmed search algorithms through the full factorial space.

Designed experiments may be described using a number of important criteria. For example designs may be described by the specific effects they allow the number of factors and factor levels included and whether or not there are the same number of levels in each factor and the amount of information produced in relation to the objective outcome. Experiment engine may employ any or all of these methods to find or produce the best designs to use for a particular application.

Designed experiments allow communication management system to make inferences about some of the variables that drive the choices of users . These designed experiments may implement or support an understanding of random utility theory RUT . Random utility theory postulates that the true value to a user of some item e.g. a banner advertisement or a web page cannot be observed because it is a mental quality in the user s mind. That is the thought process by which a user arrives at a particular decision cannot always be captured or observed. In view of this designed experiments allow communication management system to make inferences about some of the variables that drive user choices based upon what users actually do not what they think or express.

In one embodiment experiment engine provides functionality for the following a full factorial experiments which consider all possible combinations b designed experiments which consider the minimum possible combinations main effects only and c designed experiments that estimate all two variable interactions or selected two variable interactions.

Model engine is in communication with experiment engine and may obtain the definition of various experiments therefrom. Model engine may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. The data produced from each experiment specifies outcomes relevant to the objectives set by content provider . Once the experiments are completed this data may transferred to model engine to identify the degree to which the content elements influence the behavior of users . That is model engine uses the results or data collected during the various experiments to create one or more behavioral models of human decisions and choices.

In general a model attempts to predict what users may do in the future based on observations made of past behavior from users with similar characteristics. A behavioral model may comprise a sophisticated continuous and discrete multivariate statistical model which can be used to determine what aspects of a content structure or treatment influence the probability of achieving a particular outcome. All actions that users take in an interactive environment potentially can be observed and modeled using forms of choice models based on random utility theory. That is the observed behavioral characteristics of users maybe embedded in choice models resulting from designed experiments. The models can model the behavior of users in terms of how the users respond to different stimuli e.g. treatments . Model engine performs this analysis and suggests which treatments to present to users in the future in order to meet the desired objectives.

A behavioral model can be for example a statistical abstraction of an unknown decision making process used by a user to make particular decision such as for example whether to click on a particular banner advertisement whether to purchase a particular product being offered etc. Thus although a user s decision making process cannot be observed behavioral modeling attempts to approximate these processes statistically using random utility theory developed and refined by econometricians and psychometricians. The unexplained component of a user s choice may be considered to be the deviation of that user from what a behavioral model predicts. This is stochastic is the sense that there is an element of user behavior that cannot be explained.

The models generated by model engine may thus model and predict the probability that a randomly selected user from some sample or segment will perform a particular action or combination of actions when faced with a number of possible actions. As such the behavioral models may consider user choices. These choice models do not predict the exact choice that will be made by a user but rather the probability that a any given user will choose a particular action. In particular choice models describe how the probability of users choices or decisions i.e. their behavior will vary according to one or more elements that were manipulated in a respective experiment or according to users profiles. Choice models thus consider variables that describe the options for choices e.g. prices discount levels colors of products offered at a website and the variables that describe users e.g. time of day day of week Internet service provider ISP operating system for an application . Inclusion of variables that describe users allow choice models to be used to optimize content offers etc. for particular user profiles. For example model engine has generated a model that predicts how choice probabilities of users vary with background color and page placement as well as time of day day of week and ISP then prediction engine and model engine can predict which color and placement location should be provided or displayed to any given user to optimize an objective e.g. to maximize click rates . Thus the model may be used to determine what set of content is most suitable for achieving a desired outcome.

In one example for a choice model the unexplained component of users decision making processes is distributed according to a Gumbel distribution. The deviations of each choice from that distribution sum to zero and each deviation is independent and has the same variance. This produces a model known as a multinomial logit MNL model. For a situation with multiple choices the MNL model can be expressed as follows exp exp for all offered in

In the above equation Vand Vare the values of the ith and jth choice options actions choices exp is the exponential operator i.e. eV and C is the set of possible actions or choices. In application of the MNL model the V s are estimated as linear in the parameters functions of the variables of interest. That is the V s are expressed as multiple regression like functions of some predictor variables e.g. color of an advertisement placement of an advertisement time of day for observed behavior user s ISP the interaction of advertisement color and ISP etc. . Parameters are estimated for each variable from the data obtained as the outcome of experimentation. The parameters then are used in the MNL model to predict the probability that a particular user profile will choose a particular choice option action . Alternatively the results of the model are used to determine what particular combination of variables i.e. treatment to show to a user with a particular profile such as for example which combination of advertisement color and placement should be displayed to a user with AOL as an ISP and who interacts with the website between 2 00 a.m. and 3 00 a.m. on a Tuesday.

Model engine may implement techniques for choice modeling Bayesian modeling or other useful modeling for the choices of users e.g. visitors to a website as revealed for example in their click patterns responses to questions session times purchases registrations return visits option selections etc. In one embodiment the modeling may implement techniques of Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo estimation procedures. Model engine may use a structure referred to as a model instruction which allows the model engine to extract that part of the experiment data required for modeling from observation module .

Prediction engine is in communication with model engine and allocator module . Prediction engine may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. From the experimentation and modeling prediction engine functions to generate or create one or more predictions. A prediction can be a simple description of a model which is used to deliver content to users in a way which is most effective to achieve one or more desired outcomes objectives. For example a prediction may predict that a user with certain characteristics will for a particular website click through to key web pages buy merchandise at the website visit between the hours of 9 00 p.m. and midnight or any other strategic objective of interest.

In one implementation prediction engine may identify from a model that set of content elements which is predicted to be most likely to cause any given user who visits the website to behave consistently with the model s objective i.e. consistent with a particular goal or objective of the content provider . In another implementation prediction engine may allow content provider to make such an identification.

Prediction engine may generate predictive covariates which can be used when allocating content to users in response to requests for the same. That is prediction engine may generate prediction rules for targeting specific content to certain kinds of users thus providing personalization in the delivery of content . The prediction rules can be a set of rules which match different types or classes of users to specific content . Accordingly prediction engine converts a model. which provides an abstract description of observed behavior into a simple set of rules that attempts to optimize desired behavior. The prediction rules are forwarded to allocator module for application in the delivery of content to users .

The functionality of each of experiment engine model engine and prediction engine can be performed by any suitable processor such as a main frame file server workstation or other suitable data processing facility running appropriate software and operating under the control of any suitable operating system such as MS DOS Apple Macintosh OS WINDOWS XP or VISTA WINDOWS 2000 OS 2 UNIX XENIX GEOS and the like.

Observation module communicates with allocator module in content system experiment engine and model engine . Observation module generally functions to maintain or store observation data. Observation data can be information or data relating to the observed behavior of users which visit the website of content provider . The observation data can be collected for each experiment conducted by communication management system and thus can include information for the experimental conditions and the observed outcomes. Furthermore observation data stored in observation module can include data for a number of variables such as experiment variables covariates and dependent variables. Experiment variables may relate to or represent content itself. For example experiment variables may relate to or specify the content treatments for an experiment and a time period for experimentation. Experiment variables can be controlled and may be considered independent variables. Dependent variables relate to or represent outcomes. For example dependent variables may relate to the observed behavior of users prior or subsequent to a treatment allocation. Dependent variables will typically be components of the goal function which is to be optimized. As an illustrative example dependent variables may relate to the allocation of treatments and the successes or failures for such allocation. An instance of a treatment allocation is deemed to be a success if a user reacts in a desired manner to the treatment an instance of a treatment allocation is deemed to be a failure if a user does not react in a desired manner to the treatment. Covariates are variables which relate to or represent users . For example covariates may relate to characteristics of an end user e.g. particular computer and web browser . Further covariates may relate to characteristics of usage e.g. buttons clicked navigation options selected information submitted purchases made etc. . Observation data may also include information available from the data log or customer database of a website. With this data and information communication management system may segment users into discrete groups or specify a distribution of users wherein each grouping or distribution is characterized by a particular set of behavioral outcomes.

Observation module may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such as random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment observation module may comprise a relational database.

Content provider interface can be in communication with content store in content system experiment engine and observation module . Content provider interface receives model results and initiates analysis evaluation selection calibration and basic reports. Content provider interface generally supports an interface between communication management system and a human user at content provider such as an information services manager. Content provider interface allows the manager user to ask questions record and test scenarios and generate or obtain reports to quantify results.

For example content provider interface allows a manager user to assist in the set up and management of the processes for experimentation modeling and prediction performed by communication management system . Content provider interface may receive new content for input into content store and definitions for forwarding to experiment engine . In one embodiment content provider interface can be used to define the conditions and space for various experiments the attributes and levels that will be manipulated individual data tracked and to initiate the generation or creation of various experimental designs. Furthermore content provider interface may allow the manager user to view and analyze data both in raw form straight from the observation module and also in model form from model engine .

The functionality of content provider interface can be performed by one or more suitable input devices such as a key pad touch screen input port pointing device e.g. mouse microphone and or other device that can accept information and one or more suitable output devices such as a computer display output port speaker or other device for conveying information including digital data visual information or audio information. In one embodiment content provider interface may comprise or be operable to display at least one graphical user interface GUI having a number of interactive devices such as buttons windows pull down menus and the like to facilitate the entry viewing and or retrieval of information.

Scripting scheduling engine may be in communication with allocator module experiment engine model engine prediction engine and content provider interface . Scripting scheduling engine may comprise one or more programs which when executed perform the functionality described herein. Scripting scheduling engine generally functions to manage the overall operation of communication management system and content system .

Scripting scheduling engine provides or supports the generation of scripts which coordinate the behavior activity and or interaction of allocator module experiment engine model engine predictor engine and observation module . Accordingly scripting scheduling engine may automate the entire process of experimentation modeling and prediction described herein. Essentially each script may direct one or more elements in content system or communication system to perform a particular action or set of actions.

For example scripting scheduling engine supports the set up of the various experiments which may be conducted to gauge the behavior or reaction of users . For each experiment scripting scheduling engine may generate or supply definitions. These definitions can be supplied to allocator module for performing experiments. In addition scripting scheduling engine may monitor for the completion of an experiment and subsequently direct model engine to build or generate a model from the experimental data. Scripting scheduling engine may generate or supply scripting for converting the results of such experiments into models and ultimately predictions which are designed to achieve specific outcomes objectives. Scripting scheduling engine may deliver instructions to model engine on how to build a model. These instructions may specify data locations within observation module and names for each of a number of variables e.g. experiment variables covariates and dependent variables translations in encoding for easier modeling conversions of data from continuous to discrete and model form and any other parameters. Scripting scheduling engine may create a time related interpretation for the state of the model for use by allocator module in dealing with user requests for content . Furthermore scripting scheduling engine may provide instructions or commands to allocator module for delivering content either for experimentation or pursuant to models predictions. Each script may include basic error handling procedures.

The functionality of scripting scheduling engine can be performed by any suitable processor which can be the same or separate from the processor s for experiment engine model engine and prediction engine .

In operation generally speaking content provider interface may receive experimental definitions from a content provider . In one embodiment for example a manager user at content provider inputs data relating to past website traffic or samples from current website traffic in order to determine how to set up and schedule an experiment. Using the experimental definitions experiment engine designs one or more experiments for a particular set of content . Each experiment may involve a plurality of content structures or treatments for the content. One of the treatments serves as a control treatment while the remaining treatments serve as experimental treatments. For each experiment experiment engine may generate a separate set of experiment rules which dictate how the treatments are delivered during experimentation. These experiment rules are forwarded to allocator module .

Allocator module allocates the different treatments to various users in response to requests for content from the same. This allocation is done in accordance with the rules for experiments designed by experiment engine . During experimentation communication management system observes the behavior of the users to each treatment and collects or stores data on these observations in observation module . This includes data for experiment variables covariates and independent variables.

Using the observation data model engine generates one or more models for each experiment conducted. These models may capture the relationship between the incidence of the objective behaviors by users and a set of controlled content variables and details about the users visits.

From the experimentation and modeling communication management system may modify or customize the treatments of content which are delivered to users . In particular prediction engine generates one or more predictions which are used to deliver content to users in a way which is most effective to achieve one or more desired outcomes objectives. In one embodiment prediction engine automatically searches the results of experimentation and modeling for the optimal content structure or treatment and recommends that for delivery to users . In an alternative embodiment prediction engine allows a human user e.g. information systems manager at content provider to specify a plurality of optimal content structures or treatments for delivery to users . Prediction engine generates a set of prediction rules which can be forwarded to allocator module in content system .

Each of the processes of experimenting modeling and predicting may be repeated. By continuously experimenting with content that will be delivered to users content system and communication management system systematically isolate the effects of different attributes of the communication on desired outcomes objectives. By modeling segments or individual users based on this continuous experimentation as described herein content system and communication management system can automatically and accurately generate and define rules for presenting custom communication to achieve or increase the desired outcomes objectives.

As such content system and communication management system implement a systematic approach for the design and development of interactive communication to optimize enhance or otherwise improve product development public relations customer service advertising effectiveness electronic commerce or any other application which can benefit from real time mass customization of content .

Experiment manager object generally functions to control or manage the execution of various experiments. Experiment manager object allows the set up of designed experiments. For example experiment manager object supports the specification of one or more experiment variables which can be investigated or considered as to their effects on one or more outcomes objectives of interest. Such experiment variables can be for example background color location on a web page or special discount. Furthermore for each experiment variable experiment manager object supports the specification of one or more levels. For example for an experiment variable of background color levels can include blue pink yellow and green. For an experiment variable of location on a web page levels can include top center right bottom lower left and middle right. For an experiment variable of special discount levels can include 10 off 15 off 20 off 25 off 30 off 35 off 40 off and so on. From the above it can be seen that the experiment variables can be inherently discrete e.g. background color or inherently continuous e.g. special discount . In one embodiment the variables and associated levels can be selected by a manager user.

Once experiment variables and levels have been selected experiment manager object can specify different combinations or values of content . Experiment manager object may generate the content structures or treatments to be delivered for each experiment and determine the conditions for delivery e.g. to whom and when . To accomplish this experiment manager object may use any or all of the experiment engine functionality described herein e.g. tables search algorithms etc. . Across these treatments the levels for each experiment variable are systematically varied.

From the set of all possible content structures or treatments for a given set of content a subset may be selected for experimentation. More specifically experiment manager object may select from the set of all possible treatments a sample of those in a particular way to optimally address the desired objectives or outcomes. This allows communication management system to investigate a larger number of and more complicated content issues than otherwise possible while also insuring that the system and therefore the manager user will know which element of content had what effect on user behavior and therefore what treatment is optimal for future delivery to site visitors. Each treatment of the selected subset may be considered to be a control content structure. Control implies that the different levels for experiment variables in the treatments are under the control of or can be specified by communication management system or the manager user.

Experiment manager object may also define or implement statistical sampling procedures. These statistical sampling procedures are used to select from all users visiting the web site maintained by content provider a number who will receive the control content structures or treatments. This selection can be accomplished using a combination of user profiling e.g. segmentation which may include a segment comprising all users and or statistically valid random selection techniques. In one embodiment experiment manager object may allow a manager user at content provider to specify either implicitly or explicitly a particular target population of users to receive the control treatments. For example experiment manager object may allowing a manager user to select a fraction of the total website traffic and then design and implement an experiment that can be applied to a this fraction of the total traffic. With the sampling procedures available from experiment manager object the manager user may set quotas for particular samples or for sampling from particular populations of users wherein each population may have some characteristics in common e.g. ISP time of use etc. .

Experiment manager object may also specify when and for how long each experiment will be run for example based on input from a manager user.

Experiment manager object may keep track of the experiments under way at a given time and the users participating in each experiment. Experiment manager object may also via scripting scheduling engine direct other engines or elements in communication management system or content system to collect data and information about each experiment as it is being conducted. For example experiment manager object may direct allocator module to collect observation data for the various experiments and to store this data in observation module . Thus it is possible to determine what experiments have been done what experiments are underway and what parts of the experimental space remain for experimentation. Furthermore for each experiment experiment manager object may generate a set of rules which direct allocator module on how treatments should be allocated during the course of the experiment.

In one embodiment experiment manager object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

Experiment data store is in communication with experiment manager object . Experiment data store functions to store experiment data . Experiment data generally comprises data and information relating to the experiments created and executed by experiment engine . This includes data information for both past historical experiments and experiments currently in progress. For each experiment experiment data may specify for example the definitions and parameters defining the experiment the content which is used during the experiment the variables specified for the experiment the levels for each experiment variable the content structures or treatments considered during the experiment the objective behavior being tracked for each experiment the experiment rules for each experiment and a definition or recognition pattern for the users who are allocated to participate in the experiment.

Experiment data may also specify or include data used to set up the experiments. In one embodiment this data may include one or more tables. Each table can be associated with a respective experimental design. These tables can be filled in with data and information entered for example by experiment manager object optionally cooperating with a manager user at the content provider in order to create experiments specifically designed for the content provider . Experiment data store also stores information relating to the ability of the content system to experiment.

Experiment data store may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such as random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment experiment data store may comprise a relational database.

With experiment engine communication management system can select from the set of all possible content structures or treatments for a given set of content a sample with which to experiment to optimally address a desired objective or outcome. This allows communication management system cooperating with content system to investigate not only a large number but also more complicated content issues than otherwise possible. Communication management system is thus able to determine which content structure or treatment had what effect on users and therefore what content is optimal for future delivery to other users.

Data view reader which may be in communication with observation module generally functions to retrieve or read observation data collected during experimentation. This observation data may include data relating to the treatments delivered to various users during experimentation and the outcome for each delivery. At least some reactions of users to various treatments can be observed e.g. a user may ultimately purchase a product which is offered in a particular treatment and thus can be considered to be an objective behavior.

Model generator which is in communication with data view reader receives the observation data. Model generator transforms the observation data into a format that can be statistically analyzed. Using the observation data model generator generates one or more behavioral models. These behavioral models may capture the relationship of the incidence of the objective behaviors the set of controlled content variables e.g. placement or background color of a banner advertisement and users to whom content is delivered. Choice models are behavioral in the sense that they describe how the probability of users choices or decisions i.e. their behavior will vary as the levels for any number of variables are manipulated in an experiment. The models are useful for situations that involve interpolation for values not observed and or predictions about treatments not administered during experimentation. In one embodiment model generator may generate one or more contingency tables. Contingency tables are a form of model. Each contingency table can be a report which is useful for situations with a small number of defined outcomes. Contingency tables can be used to check that complex forms of models will succeed. By analyzing a contingency table communication management system can identify data that will cause complex models to fail an estimation step. Contingency tables are very complete and relatively fast forms of modeling.

Model generator can be implemented with algorithms for choice modeling Bayesian modeling neural networks decision trees or other relevant modeling algorithms. At least some of these algorithms for modeling are publicly available for example in various academic publications or commercially available software. In one embodiment model generator can be implemented with MATLAB libraries and object code compiler.

Model data store is in communication with model generator . Model data store generally functions to store and maintain model data . Model data can be any information and data for creating describing defining and implementing the models described herein. For each model model data can specify for example an identifier for the model variables describing the choice options available under the model e.g. prices discount levels background colors variables describing users e.g. time of day that user interacts day of week that user interacts Internet service provider ISP for the user operating system for the user s computer etc. the contents of one or more legacy systems demographic information etc.

Model data storage may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such a random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment model data store may comprise a relational database.

Data view manager object is in communication with model data store and data view reader . Data view manager object generally functions to output the various models to a human user e.g. information system manager at content provider via data view reader for interpretation by the same. In one embodiment data view manager object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

In one embodiment content provider may store user information in separate databases which may be incorporated into model data store . For example an on line banking application supported by a content provider may draw data from a user s Internet session as well as from a financial institution s corporate database. In such case data view manager object would link the corporate database to model data store .

Model output object is in communication with model data store . Model output object generally functions to output the various models to prediction engine for conversion or use as predictions. In one embodiment model output object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

Prediction generator generally functions to generate one or more predictions which predict for example how various users may react to particular content. These predictions may be considered to be a mass customization process. The predictions use the revealed observed preferences of users as embodied in a model to generate statistically viable prediction rules. Prediction generator may receive input from model engine and content provider interface to develop rules for targeting content to specific users in order to achieve desired is objectives outcomes e.g. sales of a product thus optimizing the delivery of content . This can be accomplished by converting various models output by model engine .

In one embodiment prediction generator may implement a personalization process. In the area of interactive communications a personalization process can be a process whereby content is targeted and delivered to users based on either their stated or implied preferences. An exemplary personalization process may comprise data mining techniques used to profile or segment users . Segmentation refers to the breakdown division or separation of users into various discrete groups or segments. Each grouping or segment can be a specification or distribution of users with similar behavioral characteristics. The behavior of users within a given segment tends to be more homogenous whereas the behavior of users between segments tends to be less homogenous. Segments can range from none a mass undifferentiated market to unique individuals.

Segments of users can be determined in the modeling process based upon information identified for particular users who are disposed to react in unique ways towards the content as observed in their site related behavior. To implement segmentation the defining information for each segment is tracked for user interactions. This can be accomplished with segmentation rules. A separate set of segmentation rules can be programmed or provided for each segment of users . These rules may specify details for delivering content to users . For example for each segment the respective set of rules may specify which content should be delivered at what time. Alternatively a manager user at content provider can select predefined segments a priori.

Prediction generator converts predictive models generated by model engine into optimized rule sets which are known as predictions. That is prediction generator may perform an optimization process that removes information about unsuccessful content combinations or treatments from content system and or communication management system thus leaving only information for content combinations or treatments worthy of being used. By removing such non useful data prediction generator enhances the resultant real time processing speed. For any given model operated upon by prediction generator the conversion to a rule set is done to map the model back to terms understandable by the content system. It is possible to accept in this process separate models for various sub populations of users and or include characteristics of individual users that drive differences in their behavior in the models.

As such the techniques and functionality of prediction generator allow inclusion and analysis of many individual characteristics of users as well as different ways in which the characteristics can combine to drive differences in behaviors. For example the time of day may be associated with differences in the propensity of various users to click through a website all other factors being the same. Furthermore the time of day may be associated with differences in the sensitivity of users to attributes like offer price or position on page.

Prediction generator may receive input from a manager user for example to specify particular segments for investigation and optimization of content delivery. Through content provider interface a manager user may specify identification rules based on data fields and values available in the observation module or from the content provider s own customers users or site databases.

Prediction data store is in communication with prediction generator . Prediction data store generally functions to store and maintain prediction data . Prediction data can be any information and data for creating describing defining and implementing the predictions described herein. For each prediction prediction data can specify for example an identifier for the prediction a set of rules for the prediction definitions describing classes of users and the content which is best for each class.

Prediction data store may be implemented in any one or more suitable storage media such as random access memory RAM disk storage or other suitable volatile and or non volatile storage medium. In one embodiment prediction data storage may comprise a relational database.

Prediction output object is in communication with prediction data store and data view reader of model engine . Prediction output object may output the various prediction rules to the content system for application during delivery of content to users . In one embodiment prediction output object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

In some applications which involve extensive content or large amounts of user data the size of the set of prediction rules may be larger than practicable for review by a human user e.g. manager user . To allow for practicable human review prediction engine may incorporate or include one or more rules reduction algorithms for generating a reduced ruleset. Thus when desired a manager user may interact with prediction engine to request a reduced ruleset.

In one exemplary implementation for a rules reduction process users are searched and clustered together according to similarities or differences in their characteristics and optimal content. These clustered groups function as segments for implementing predictions. In another exemplary implementation for a rules reduction process segments are simultaneously searched during the modeling process. In yet another exemplary implementation cost functions are used to constrain the model to produce a reasonably small number of distinct prediction rules.

Observation data store generally functions to maintain or store observation data . Observation data can be data or information relating to the observed behavior of users which visit the website of content provider . Observation data may thus specify for example the users which visit the website an Internet Protocol IP address for each user the experimental conditions under which content is delivered to each user the observed outcomes or results of each visit one or more experiment variables one or more predictive covariates one or more dependant variables time stamps for each visit and other useful data which can be used during analysis. At least a portion of observation data may constitute raw information and basic statistics for observations. Observation data may be maintained as structures which are appropriate for viewing and modeling the results by user e.g. visitor treatment session and user profile. Observation data may allow communication management system and content system to deliver the same treatment to a user who returns to the website e.g. assuming such user returns from an identical IP address . Observation data store may supply observation data to a manager user via a content provider user interface.

Observation access object is in communication with observation data store . Observation access object generally functions to provide access to storage or retrieval of the observation data . Observation access object may transfer observation data to the model engine in a form that is directly appropriate for modeling. The transfer process may involve checking the observation data for data pathologies e.g. missing data structural dependencies etc. and transforming the data to model ready form e.g. categorization and effects coding . In one embodiment observation access object may be implemented or comprise a set of interface objects which can be delivered between various components or modules of communication management system and content system .

In some instances content provider may store user information in separate databases which may be combined with other data in observation data store . For example an on line banking application supported by a content provider may draw data from a user s Internet session as well as from a financial institution s corporate database. In such case observation access object would link the corporate database to observation data store .

Script interpreter generally functions to run the various scripts which provide instructions or directions to other engines and modules in communication management system and content system e.g. allocator module experiment engine model engine prediction engine or observation module . These scripts may initiate or cause some action to be taken in communication management system or content system in response to various events. Each script may specify a sequence or series of instructions which are issued to other engines and modules in systems and in order to coordinate the operation of the same.

An event can be for example the completion of some task by one of the various modules or engines in communication management system or content system . Notification of each such event may be conveyed by the relevant module or engine to scripting scheduling engine . An event may also relate to the occurrence of a predetermined time e.g. 8 00 a.m. or the lapse of a predetermined amount of time e.g. two hours . Timer keeps track of time and generates information for each event which is time related.

Event queue which is in communication with script interpreter receives and stores information for each event of which scripting scheduling engine is notified or which is generated internally. Event queue implements a queue for handling one or move events. These events can be specified in various scripts and may serve to trigger the issuance of instructions by script interpreter . In other words for each event script interpreter may initiate or cause some action to be taken in communication management system or content system according to the particular script.

For example an event can be the completion of an experiment by experiment engine in which case script interpreter may desirably initiate the generation of a respective model using the results of experimentation. Thus using the data produced by the various modules and engines along with diagnostic information script interpreter may determine whether or not the modules or engines have completed their respective tasks successfully and initiate appropriate action by issuing respective instructions.

Script data store which is in communication with script interpreter generally functions to maintain or store script data . Script data can be data or information relating to the various scripts generated and run by script interpreter . For each script script data may thus specify for example an identifier for the script the instructions which are part of the script the sequence in which the instructions should be issued the events which should trigger the issuance of instructions the modules or engines to which instructions should be issued etc.

Method begins at steps and where communication management system cooperating with content system defines an experimental space and an experiment. In one embodiment experiment engine may generate various definitions for the experiments and corresponding experimental space. These definitions may specify a particular set of content which will be the subject of the experiments one or more treatments into which the content is arranged the time period over which each experiment will be conducted the control groups of users to whom treatments will be delivered the experiment rules which govern delivery of content treatments the behavior of users that should be monitored the objectives outcomes that are desirably achieved etc. In one embodiment a manager user at content provider may interact with communication management system to design the experiments.

At step experiment engine schedules live experiments for delivering particular treatments to respective control groups of users . At step experiment engine working in conjunction with allocator module conducts the defined experiments and collects data relating to the observed behavior of users. In one embodiment allocator module may apply the experiment rules for delivering the various treatments to specific control groups. This may be done in response to user requests for content . Allocator module may store details regarding the observed behavior of users as related to the objectives to be optimized or otherwise in observation module .

At step model engine creates a model using the collected data information for observed behavior. The model may reflect the degree to which the content elements influence the behavior or choices of users . In particular the behavioral model may comprise a sophisticated continuous and discrete multivariate statistical model which can be used to determine what aspects of a content structure or treatment influences the probability of achieving a particular outcome.

At step prediction engine creates or generates a prediction. This prediction can be a simple description of a model which is used to deliver content to users in a way which is most effective to achieve the desired outcomes objectives. The prediction can be implemented in part with a set of prediction rules which target specific content to particular kinds of users. At step communication management system allows a manager user at content provider to customize the prediction if desired.

At step communication management system cooperates with content system to execute the prediction and collect data. In particular allocator module may apply the prediction rules to deliver content in response to requests by users . This results in the delivery of particular treatments to various users depending on certain criteria e.g. time of day click trail etc. . Data relating to the behavior of users to the respective treatments is collected. At step model engine and prediction engine may cooperate to analyze the results of the delivery of treatments during the prediction phase.

At step communication management system determines whether the observed results are satisfactory. That is communication management system determines whether users have reacted in the desired manner to the content treatments which were delivered thus achieving the desired outcomes or objectives. If the observed results are not satisfactory then at step model engine changes the modeling parameters type etc. after which method returns to step where a new model is created. Method repeats steps through until it is determined at step that the results of prediction are satisfactory. At that point method ends.

Method may be performed for each experiment carried out by communication management system cooperating with content system . Each experiment may focus or concentrate on a particular set of content which can be stored in content system . Any set of content can include for example written text images graphics animation video music voice and the like. Elemental components of content can be a text file an image file an audio file a video file etc.

Method begins at step where for the present experiment experiment engine identifies the desired objectives outcomes for user behavior. Such outcomes or objectives can be for example increasing sales and profits improving electronic marketing effectiveness and powering specific business intelligence applications. In one embodiment the desired objectives outcomes can be identified or selected by a manager user of content provider via content provider interface . At step experiment engine identifies which element components of the particular set of content may potentially influence user behavior related to the desired objectives outcomes. This can be part of a designed experiment.

At step experiment engine generates a number of alternative content structures or treatments using various combinations of the elemental components. Each content structure or treatment can be for example a particular implementation of a web page. These alternative content structures may vary in the elemental components for one or more experiment variables under the control of communication management system . These variables can be for example background color screen placement size of content etc. Different values or levels may be available for each variable. For example for a variable of background color different levels can be red blue gray and black. For a variable of screen placement different levels can be top center right bottom lower left etc. The various treatments may be alternately delivered in response to the same request for content as described herein.

At step experiment engine assigns control variables and levels for implementation of the experiments. This yields a number of alternate content structures or treatments for the particular set of content of the present experiment. For example in one treatment a banner advertisement may have a background color of yellow and be placed in the top right corner of a screen whereas in another treatment a banner advertisement may have a background color of blue and be placed in the middle left portion of a screen. These alternate treatments for content may be delivered to users during experimentation. Afterwards method ends.

Method begins at step where experiment engine and scripting scheduling engine select one or more content structures or treatments for delivery to users during the present experiment. Each treatment can be a particular format for content to be presented on a web page. For example one treatment for the content of a web page can include a blue background on which photographs of each article are displayed from top to bottom on the left side of the screen with accompanying descriptions provided on the right side next to each photograph. Another treatment for the content can include a red background on which photographs of each article are displayed from left to right on the top of the screen with the accompanying descriptions provided beneath each photograph at the bottom of the screen.

These treatments may be alternately delivered in response to the same request for content. An exemplary request can be a request for a web page displaying a particular line of products e.g. several articles of clothing . Such web page request can specify a particular identifier for the web page such as for example a uniform resource locator URL . Furthermore the web page request can be related to a user s action of clicking on a particular hyperlink on a web page.

At step communication management system specifies a particular target population or segment of users to receive the selected treatments. In one embodiment a manager user may explicitly specify a particular target population of site users. For example a target population can be those users who access a particular web page between the hours of 4 00 p.m. and 10 00 p.m. on weekdays. At step allocator module statistically samples to select one or more control groups of users from a target population. For example in one embodiment statistical sampling procedures are used to select from all site visitors a profile matched random sample who will receive the control treatments as described herein. Each control group may comprise one or more users who request content from content provider . Each control group may receive a different treatment during experimentation in response to identical requests for content. At step communication management system assigns control variables and values levels for implementation thereby specifying which treatment will be delivered to each control group.

At step allocator module via user interface allocates or delivers the respective treatment to each control group. Various users making identical requests to the website of content provider e.g. by specifying the same URL or clicking on the same hyperlink may be delivered different treatments during the experimentation. With reference to the example described above a first control group requesting information about the line of clothing may receive the treatment with a blue background and vertically positioned photographs while a second control group requesting the same information may receive the treatment with a red background and horizontally positioned photographs. Allocator module may store or record information on the control treatments and delivery to respective control groups in observation module .

At step communication management system cooperating with content system tracks the site related behavior of users receiving the various treatments. This behavior can be an indicator for how favorably or unfavorably the users viewed the different treatments. Continuing with the immediate example forty percent of the users in the first control group may actually purchase an item of clothing when presented with the treatment comprising a blue background and vertically aligned photographs while only fifteen percent of the users in the second control group may actually purchase an item of clothing when presented with the treatment comprising a red background and horizontally aligned photographs. Communication management system records information and data relating to such user behavior. This information or data can include dependent variable information which is associated with the desired objectives outcomes. All of this information may be stored into observation module as observation data .

In one embodiment user behavior can be categorized into various states. These states can be for example a decision to purchase a good a decision not to purchase a good a decision to remain at a particular web page a decision to move to another web page etc. Across the different control groups communication management system may record each change of state of user behavior for the various treatments to identify how differences in treatment influence the changes in state. Method may then end.

Method begins at step where model engine retrieves from observation module observation data produced during the experiments conducted in part by experiment engine . This observation data includes data or information relating to the observed behavior of users which visit the website of content provider . Among other things the observation data may specify for example the users which visit the website of content provider the experimental conditions under which content is delivered to each user the observed outcomes or results of each visit and one or more dependent variables related to the behavior observed during each visit.

At step model engine analyzes the observation data using multivariate statistical modeling techniques e.g. Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo estimation procedures to determine what aspects type and format of content influenced the probability of outcomes. To accomplish this model engine may analyze or consider the various dependent variables related to the behavior observed during experimentation. Model engine may generate one or more predictive covariates.

At step using the results of the analysis model engine in cooperation with prediction engine determines what content structure or treatment is best for achieving some desired outcome or objective. In particular model engine and prediction engine generate a prediction for example for how various users may react to particular content. This can be done by converting a model into a set of prediction rules. The prediction rules target content to specific users in order to achieve desired objectives outcomes e.g. sales of a product thus optimizing the delivery of content . Method then ends.

A system and method according to embodiments of the inventive subject matter use experimental designs to systematically determine the relationships between content type and format and various desired outcomes objectives. The experiments are carried out over the internet or other suitable data network thereby reaching a broad population of users to provide a more realistic representative cross section. Much of the work of the experimentation is automated thus reducing the need for manual set up and analysis.

Turning first to the nomenclature of the specification the detailed description which follows is represented largely in terms of processes and symbolic representations of operations performed by conventional computer components such as a central processing unit CPU or processor associated with a general purpose computer system memory storage devices for the processor and connected pixel oriented display devices. These operations include the manipulation of data bits by the processor and the maintenance of these bits within data structures resident in one or more of the memory storage devices. Such data structures impose a physical organization upon the collection of data bits stored within computer memory and represent specific electrical or magnetic elements. These symbolic representations are the means used by those skilled in the art of computer programming and computer construction to most effectively convey teachings and discoveries to others skilled in the art.

For purposes of this discussion a process method routine or sub routine is generally considered to be a sequence of computer executed steps leading to a desired result. These steps generally require manipulations of physical quantities. Usually although not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It is conventional for those skilled in the art to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters text terms numbers records files or the like. It should be kept in mind however that these and some other terms should be associated with appropriate physical quantities for computer operations and that these terms are merely conventional labels applied to physical quantities that exist within and during operation of the computer.

It should also be understood that manipulations within the computer are often referred to in terms such as adding comparing moving or the like which are often associated with manual operations performed by a human operator. It must be understood that no involvement of the human operator may be necessary or even desirable in the inventive subject matter. The operations described herein are machine operations performed in conjunction with the human operator or user that interacts with the computer or computers.

In addition it should be understood that the programs processes methods and the like described herein are but an exemplifying implementation of the inventive subject matter and are not related or limited to any particular computer apparatus or computer language. Rather various types of general purpose computing machines or devices may be used with programs constructed in accordance with the teachings described herein. Similarly it may prove advantageous to construct a specialized apparatus to perform the method steps described herein by way of dedicated computer systems with hard wired logic or programs stored in non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM .

In general ECS consists of a content system such as a web server or content management system and a back end which may add different functional capabilities and capture data about the users interactions with the content system . Content system and back end may each comprise a suitable combination of software and or hardware for performing the functionality described herein.

ECS can either provide content directly to users or indirectly by providing the content to other ECSs such as in the case of search engines which may broadly provide advertising to other web sites.

In one embodiment CCOS communicates with ECS via plug ins . The plug ins translate data from the rules generator to an operable format for the ECS and also collect data from the ECS and pass this data back to the data collator . For example the translation may be in the form of specific commands for .NET PHP JSP Javascript and other scripting communication or programming commands.

Ultimately the CCOS determines which treatments should be presented to different users . Treatments are indicative of the different combinations that may be presented with two levels striped and hatched of two attributes rectangle and square .

Method begins at steps where plug ins are installed or configured to connect with different ECSs . Each ECS may be different in that it has its own set of constraints for handling experiments or presenting treatments. For example one system may not be able to run experiments to the full extent of another system e.g. only a limited number of permutations or factorial designs of content elements is possible relative to another system. Accordingly the plug ins may be either parameterized or customized to control different content elements managed by the ECS and to collect data from ECS .

At step the experiment engine is used to define a set of attributes and levels that will manifest across the ECS . In one embodiment experiment engine may generate various definitions for the experiments. These definitions may specify a particular set of content element which will be the subject of the experiments one or more treatments into which the content is arranged the time period over which each experiment will be conducted the groups of users to whom treatments will be delivered the experiment rules which govern delivery of the treatments.

In one possible embodiment a manager user of CCOS may interact with the system to design the experiments.

In another possible embodiment the experimental design would be defined to both prevent confoundment of attributes and levels as well as user and context variables. The experiment engine would determine based on information from the either the system operator or the plug ins whether each relevant ECS was to operate in batch or real time modes. For those operating in batch mode the experiment engine would both determine the appropriate set of attributes and levels and assign an experimental design optimized to any given constraints of the ECS . For instance different types of fractional factorial designs might be used in order to reduce the number of ad variations for some ECS if required. Where coordination is required between ECSs in conducting the experiment the experiment engine in conjunction with the plug ins would also provide in batch mode additional information to an ECS to enable it to pass information to other ECSs including for example data on any previous presented attributes or levels user or context data.

For ECSs operating in real time mode the experiment engine may both configure the rules generator to deliver the appropriate treatments as well as to provide instruction on how to interpret user data or context data passed to any ECS by another ECS under the control of the CCOS .

At step rules generator schedules experiments for delivering particular treatments to respective groups of users .

At step data collator working in conjunction with rules generator conducts the defined experiments and collects data relating to the observed behavior of users. The data collator will use any combination of its real time tracking capabilities in conjunction with the tracking capabilities of an ECS . The data collator combines these data sources into a single data set that may count the number of times each level was presented where it was presented to whom it was presented historical user data context data such as the time of user interaction or information about the user and the subsequent user behavior.

At step modeling engine creates a model using the collected data information from the data collator . The model may reflect the degree to which the content elements influence the behavior or choices of users . The behavioral model may for example consist of a continuous or discrete multivariate statistical model which can be used to quantify the effect of content elements on the probability of achieving a particular outcome. The modeling engine generates a set of predictions related to the expected outcomes from all of the tested attributes user and context data. Because these predictions can be made across multiple user behaviors tracked by the ECS if the relative value or a weighting is known for each outcome then the predictions can also be made for any combination of outcomes. This prediction can be a simple description of content elements that should be presented to users to maximize the value of user behavior. The prediction can be implemented by the rules generator which target specific content to particular kinds of users. At step CCOS optionally allows a manager user to customize the optimal rules if desired while calculating the expected outcome for any change made.

At step rules generator via the plug ins cooperates with ECS to implement the prediction. This results in the delivery of particular treatments to various users depending on certain criteria e.g. time of day click trail etc. . Data relating to the behavior of users to the respective treatments can also be collected by the data collator .

The foregoing method steps do not all need to be performed in a batch. Some might be performed first for example under a particular hardware system. And some might be performed later under a different hardware system which may use data from the first system.

Persons skilled in the art will recognize that many modifications and variations are possible in the details materials and arrangements of the parts and actions which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of this invention and that such modifications and variations do not depart from the spirit and scope of the teachings and claims contained therein.

Although particular embodiments of the inventive subject matter have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that changes or modifications may be made without departing from the inventive subject matter in its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications that fall within the true scope of the inventive subject matter.

