---

title: Video curation platform with pre-roll advertisements for discovered content
abstract: A video curation platform displays curated video channels in the form of markup language pages. A page delivered to client machine includes thumbnails of video content that an end user may select and view. The markup language page includes a first container for supporting a first media player, and a second container for supporting a third party media player that is embedded from a content source. The containers are aligned, one in front of the other. The markup language page also includes control logic adapted to be executed in hardware at a client machine when an end user selects video content to be viewed (i) to render first content in the first media player, (ii) upon completing the first content, to automatically hide the first media player and reveal the third party media player; and (iii) to render the video content in the third party media player.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812956&OS=08812956&RS=08812956
owner: Magnify Networks, Inc.
number: 08812956
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130913
---
This application includes subject matter that is protected by copyright. With respect to that work all rights are reserved.

It is known in the prior art to provide and operate as a service a platform for video curation publishing and monetization. In this approach the platform is operated by a service provider as a managed or hosted service software as a service that is accessible by users who create video channels or sites . After creating and customizing a channel site the site creator can list the site in a public directory of video channels or maintain the site private and can send electronic messages inviting people to visit the site. Using a search tool the creator or others having permission can cause the system to meta search and then populate the channel with video content. Web users who visit a web address associated with the system receive a customized web interface that contains channel content and metadata and that allows for various user interactions such as viewing rating comment upload sharing playlist creation video communities and revenue sharing. The platform provides brands publishers and web destinations with a scalable and rapidly extensible video curation platform that includes video discovery and curation technology to enables publishers to create large high quality collections of content that they can share contextualize and monetize.

In 2006 the Interactive Advertising Bureau IAB an industry group defined a video ad as a commercial that may appear before during or after a variety of content in a player environment. One type of digital video ad experience is in stream video advertising. This refers to a video ad experience viewed within or around video content from a video player. One type of in stream video ad is a linear ad that is presented before in the middle of or after the video content requested by a user is consumed. A linear ad that is presented before the video content is also known as a pre roll.

It would be desirable to enable pre roll to be configured and delivered on web pages in a video curation platform of the type described.

A display method is operative at a video curation platform. The platform displays curated video channels in the form of server generated markup language e.g. HTML pages. A page delivered to an end user client machine includes one or more thumbnails of video content that an end user may select and view. The markup language page includes a first container for supporting a first media player and a second container for supporting a third party media player that is embedded from a content source. The containers are aligned one in front of the other. The markup language page also includes control logic adapted to be executed in hardware at a client machine when an end user selects video content to be viewed i to render first content in the first media player ii upon completing the first content to automatically hide the first media player and reveal the third party media player and iii to render the video content in the third party media player.

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the disclosed subject matter. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed subject matter in a different manner or by modifying the technique as will be described.

The above described architecture may comprise a hosted video discovery and publishing platform. A platform of this type is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 117 545 the disclosure of that patent is incorporated by reference. As described the system is a multi tier hosted service that can be customized and managed by the creators of affiliate sites. The client side interface preferably is based on current web technology standards including HTML5 and CSS stylesheets. The web interface is compatible with standard browsers including without limitation Internet Explorer on Windows Firefox on multiple platforms and Safari on Mac OS X and Windows. Supporting tools include Adobe Flash player and available JavaScript libraries. Client side interfaces include without limitation dynamic web pages with JavaScript for visual effects and AJAX functionality embeddable widgets developed in Flash and HTML that can be placed on other sites RSS feeds that provide alternate ways of accessing content and the like. The server side application is built on a common software suite that includes Apache MySQL and Perl. The server side application is a generic Linux Unix Posix style environment and is easily portable to other equivalent server platforms. The system also supports H.264 and other encoding protocols.

As further described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 117 545 the primary elements of the service architecture and the typical flows of requests between them are represented in . As noted above the main functional components of the system are implemented at an Internet accessible system site which is this case is reached by opening a browser or mobile app to the domain magnify.net this domain is merely representative and it is a service mark of the assignee of this application . As can be seen the server side functionality is partitioned into several tiers as follows a web server tier which delivers static files and act as a load balancing proxy for the application servers an application server tier which combines dynamic page templates with custom logic and functionality a caching server tier which provides a shared repository for short term storage of frequently used data a database server tier which stores searches and updates all persistent information within the system and a messaging server tier which sends automatic notifications and accepts content from email or mobile SMS. A shared file service holds static content including site specific graphics and image thumbnails. The application server also interacts with other Internet services in a variety of ways video hosting post retrieve and embed video content from third party hosting services advertising networks retrieve and embed targeted advertising from third party ad servers and affiliated sites XML APIs enable integration with other sites operated by affiliates .

End users site creators and others access the system through web browsers . Site channels as will be described typically are associated with an affiliate s primary or home web site and these sites are identified by reference numeral . As indicated affiliate sites can embed live widgets or query the system s API. As will be described in more detail below the system discovers annotates and embeds video content from multiple video and search services which services are indicated by reference numeral . The system uses web sites and APIs to discover videos from such services. If desired videos and content from the application may be syndicated to user blogs and other third party sites . The system also interoperates with advertising services and networks to serve text banner and video advertisements. The system components illustrated in are a representative embodiment it is not required that all such components be included or that the identified boundaries be as shown. One of more components may be combined or associated with the system or other entities as the case may be without departing from the scope of the described subject matter. It is not required that the components be located within the same data center. As will be seen the site preferably comprises a set of machines that execute a set of processes. A function may be implemented in a distributed manner e.g. across a set of Intel processor or equivalent based Linux or equivalent based server machines that are connected in a local area network or in any other convenient manner.

Generally the system provides any Internet user with the ability to quickly set up and customize a video channel preferably as a web page or site that can be reached from any Internet accessible device having a web browser. The solution includes tools for use by channel site creators to customize the look feel and page design. A particular web page or site may be associated with a given subject. As used herein a page or site that has such an association is sometimes referred to as subject specific. Although not meant to be limiting once a subject specific channel is created a site administrator or individual visitors can search across the web and choose to bring those search results into the channel architecture. The system also enables a multiplatform search as an integrated part of a library build if desired search results are automatically populated into the channel content. The system also enables the characterization of the material returned preferably according to a user generated taxonomy. In one embodiment the taxonomy may be developed from a collaborative filtering review that extends beyond the search characteristics. The system thus facilitate the process of discovery and organization within a vertical channel of online video content drawing in videos from all over the Internet and collecting them in new topical contexts where they can be annotated by members of a social network online community or other group with a shared interests.

Preferably the system provides links to or embedded players for content that is hosted on multiple third party web sites. Web browsers then display these independently hosted videos in the context of the system s web pages. It is not required that the system copy host or serve those embedded videos which typically are delivered by third parties under their own terms and licenses.

A typical user interaction with the system begins with channel creation. In a typical use scenario an end user operating a client machine navigates to the site s home page via a web browser or mobile app. In this embodiment a site creator an individual an entity or the like is directed to a web site where they are given the tools to create a channel name and to select a user name and password and are provided with site design and layout tools. Using an interface the user can identify the channel and associated keywords select a content category via the dropdown list selections determine whether to allow others to post videos on the site via the dropdown list selections indicate via the radio buttons whether the channel will be public unlisted or private and select a channel listing identifier that can be uploaded from the user s machine. The user may be provided with a set of one or more pre configured site templates. Other tools may be provided to enable the user to manage the channel. For example the user can request the system to automatically find videos from third party sites that match the keywords identified by the user. This search can be repeated periodically if the user indicates in a check box or other UI widget . Alternatively the user can search and select videos from across the web instead of having the system perform the meta search . In another option the user can upload videos from his or her computer by selecting that option. The system also may provide a number of site administration tools. This includes setting up and managing administrators enabling email or other invitations setting advertising revenue sharing options and providing access to site statistics. The user may also be permitted to customize the site s options and configuration including site name and web address site description whether and to what extent community interaction with the site will be permitted video submission and peer review policies for the site as well as formats and playback options. The system may also provide automated tools to facilitate the video discovery and submission process. For example the user can direct the system to automatically repeat this auto find and posting process every configurable number of days and to group results according to one or more identified meta tags.

The system provides a managed or hosted service that is scalable and highly reliable. Multiple users create video channels which are web pages or sites . A web site is a set of one or more pages . After creating and customizing a channel site the site creator can list the site in a public directory of video channels or maintain the site private and can send electronic mail messages inviting people to visit the site. The channel site is associated with one or more DNS host names associated with the system. Using a search tool the creator or others having permission cause the system to meta search and then populate the channel with video content. Web users who visit a web address associated with the system receive a customized web interface that contains channel content and metadata and that allows for various user interactions such as viewing rating comment upload sharing playlist creation video communities and revenue sharing. The system provides an infrastructure by which a large number of sites that are looking to become part of an online ecosystem but that do not have the technology or focus on video required to reach a larger audience. By enabling videos to be identified and classified according to preferably user configurable site specific categories the system enables aggregated audiences for content that might otherwise not even be seen.

The system may interact with one or more e commerce ad serving payment promotion and distribution systems as required. One of more of such components may be performed natively or through web based or other interaction with third party systems.

Without limitation a representative video curation publishing and monetization platform of the type described above is Magnify.net of New York N.Y.

Preferably video site administrators use the curation tools to locate and embed videos from a wide number of content partners. These videos are embedded into the video web site but preferably remain hosted at third party web sites the third party player .

Preferably the system offers publishers site owners with an application programming interface API and tools to build single view and multi view embeddable players e.g. by constructing URLs based on video permalinks on the video site to load playlists and to configure various player features e.g. player width player height player layout player skin whether the player auto plays and when and others .

The above described platform provides a solution that allows for the process of delivering pre roll advertisements in a separate video player than the third party content e.g. content embedded from open APIs. According to the technique herein an additional extension to this technology is provided to enable curators with the ability to sell advertising inventory on their created and hosted pages before requested video from third party players is presented on customer pages. This technique is sometimes referred to herein as Pre Roll Everywhere a service mark of Magnify.net. In one preferred approach the publisher uses the video discovery and curation technology described above namely keyword and tag searches as well as site specific searches to gather content from a wide range of services. Once gathered this content is curated organized categorized and published as one or more content pages channels. The publisher then accesses advertising inventory e.g. via an integration with any iAB VAST 2.0 compliant ad server. Using an advertising campaign manager tool interface pre roll advertising is then targeted to keywords playlists or run of site distribution. Visitors to the channel site are then presented with thumbnails of properly curated content. Once a visitor clicks on the thumbnail the system is posted on the page and via the system player a pre roll advertisement is called and presented to the visitor. After the pre roll completes the system player sends an event e.g. back to a database and a third party video player is called and the originally requested video as represented by the thumbnail is presented.

Generalizing the platform exposes interfaces and tools that enable publishers and site owners the ability to target campaigns to appropriate keywords and curated collections. According to the techniques of this disclosure the publisher site owner also can grow its inventory collection by curating and mixing video from trusted sources its own content and collected and curated content. One particular monetization strategy is to provision and implement pre roll advertisements for all types of content even discovered content. Preferably the platform has or can access from a third party the capability to match visitors to videos and ads expanding inventory and broadening engagement opportunities on each video landing page. Preferably the actual pre roll creative content is delivered via ad tags from third party ad networks.

Preferably the platform provides a video advertising campaign manager tool or interface a set of Internet accessible pages that enables a publisher site owner to manage advertisements that are associated with the content channel. The video campaign manager enables the publisher to create and manage ad campaigns e.g. in different areas of the content channel and to provision and deliver custom advertising experiences such as co branding sponsorship full page ad unit takeovers and the like. Using the video campaign manager tool and according to this disclosure video site administrators configure ad tags provided by third party ad servers and advertising networks to run video pre roll ads in a video player hosted on and controlled by the system the system player . In addition and using this tool video site administrators also set rules called Ad Campaigns that allow the grouping of video site content by search terms tags source date length and location within the video site. Using the tool separate ad tags also are assigned to different Ad Campaigns to allow targeted advertising to display in different contexts throughout the video site depending on the rules assigned to the content being viewed. Further using the tool video site administrators control whether or not video pre roll ads are displayed in front of videos that have been embedded from third party web sites and they can configure ad tags and set up Ad Campaigns targeted only at third party players. If this latter configuration Pre Roll Everywhere is enabled the system generates custom HTML CSS and javascript code that allows video pre roll to display in the system player before displaying the third party player to the user.

In particular and with reference to when a user requests a web page that contains a third party player the system preferably generates custom HTML code that contains two separate players namely a system player that is configured to request an ad tag from a third party ad server or ad network and the third party player that is configured to request the video content that the user wishes to view. The third party player is embedded from a content source. In addition the system generates custom CSS code that controls the layout and visibility of the two players. In a preferred operation the system player is made visible to the user and the third party player is hidden from the user but the two players are positioned in such a way that they appear to occupy the same area within the HTML layout. The system further generates custom javascript code that is designed to load ad tags into the system player listen for events coming from the system player that indicate when an ad is loaded playing and completed and control the visibility of the system player and the third party player in the web page. The scripts and CSS comprise control logic for managing the rendering hiding and swapping of the players.

The preferred operation is as follows and as described in the process flow in . When the web page loads step the system player renders step requests the ad tag from the third party ad server or ad network step and immediately begins playing the video pre roll contained in the response step . When the video pre roll has completed step the system player receives an event that allows it to trigger the custom javascript that hides the system player step reveals the third party player step and allows the third party player to begin playing automatically step . Because the players are laid out in such a way that they are the same size or approximately so and appear to occupy the same space within the HTML page this gives the illusion that the advertising content and the requested video content are a seamless experience despite being presented in two separate video players. From the requesting user s perspective the fact that two distinct players are being used is not apparent.

The following describes representative HTML of a server generated player page that represents the two player embeds namely the system player and a third party player. This code also includes in line script and CSS that controls the showing hiding of the players and the swapping between them. The player page begins with a container that wraps both players 

As also seen in the page includes HTML to create and instantiate a container mvp swfo div270483758 that wraps the third party player. After that second container is defined another script swfobject.js is provided and its function is to generate a third party video embed and place it in the second container. This player is set to autoplay because it is currently set to display none and thus is hidden initially . It does not begin playing until its display value is set by the swapClips function to block.

One or more functions of such a technology platform may be implemented in a cloud based architecture. As is well known cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. Available services models that may be leveraged in whole or in part include Software as a Service SaaS the provider s applications running on cloud infrastructure Platform as a service PaaS the customer deploys applications that may be created using provider tools onto the cloud infrastructure Infrastructure as a Service IaaS customer provisions its own processing storage networks and other computing resources and can deploy and run operating systems and applications .

The platform may comprise co located hardware and software resources or resources that are physically logically virtually and or geographically distinct. Communication networks used to communicate to and from the platform services may be packet based non packet based and secure or non secure or some combination thereof.

More generally the techniques described herein are provided using a set of one or more computing related entities systems machines processes programs libraries functions or the like that together facilitate or provide the described functionality described above. In a typical implementation a representative machine on which the software executes comprises commodity hardware an operating system an application runtime environment and a set of applications or processes and associated data that provide the functionality of a given system or subsystem. As described the functionality may be implemented in a standalone machine or across a distributed set of machines.

While the system has been described in the context of video and video clip discovery and publishing this is not a limitation of the invention. The techniques of the invention may be used for photos graphics music software or other content.

While given components of the system have been described separately one of ordinary skill will appreciate that some of the functions may be combined or shared in given instructions program sequences code portions and the like.

