---

title: Use of incremental checkpoints to restore user data stream processes
abstract: A method and system on failure recovery in a storage system are disclosed. In the storage system, user data streams (e.g., log data) are collected by a scribeh system. The scribeh system may include a plurality of Calligraphus servers, HDFS and Zookeeper. The Calligraphus servers may shard the user data streams based on keys (e.g., category and bucket pairs) and stream the user data streams to Puma nodes. Sharded user data streams may be aggregated according to the keys in memory of a specific Puma node. Periodically, aggregated user data streams cached in memory of the specific Puma node, together with a Incremental checkpoint, are persisted to HBase. When a specific process on the specific Puma node fails, Ptail retrieves the Incremental checkpoint from HBase and then restores the specific process by requesting user data streams processed by the specific process from the scribeh system according to the Incremental checkpoint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471436&OS=09471436&RS=09471436
owner: 
number: 09471436
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130423
---
Various embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to database management and in particular to failure recovery in parallel data processing.

With the rapid increase and advances in digital consumer products i.e. smart phones digital cameras PDAs more digital information is being generated than ever before. According to International Data Corporation the total amount of digital information in the world will come to 2.7 zettabytes by the end of 2012. Majority of newly generated digital information is data like log data digital video images and sound files. This puts up a huge challenge for existing database management systems to search analyze and retrieve the information.

One solution is to implement parallel data collections and processes for performing database management and database operations. Multiple instances of data streams are created to divide work among many parallel processes or threads. Each instance processes some fraction of the overall data set in parallel.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a variety of methods for recovering a failed process in a storage system. In some embodiments the storage system may include a scribeh system which comprises a plurality of Calligraphus servers a Hadoop Distributed File System HDFS and a Zookeeper. The plurality of Calligraphus servers collect user data streams e.g. log data from web servers backend servers user scripts browser side data i.e. data sent back via web servers and mobile apps e.g. iphone android etc . The collected user data streams may be sharded based on keys and streamed to HDFS and or application nodes e.g. Puma nodes . Sharded user data streams with the keys may be aggregated in memory of a particular application node. Periodically aggregated user data streams on the particular application node are persisted to a storage e.g. HBase and or MySQL in the storage system together with a Ptail checkpoint. When a specific process on the particular Puma node fails Ptail retrieves the Ptail checkpoint from the storage. According to the information provided by the Ptail checkpoint Ptail requests user data streams processed by the specific process from the scribeh system and restore the specific process in substantially real time.

In some embodiments each Calligraphus server may include a writer and a router. The writer is configured to divide received user data streams into categories. Each category may be subdivided into buckets. The router is configured to look up a mapping between writers of the plurality of Calligraphus servers and categories of user data streams.

In some embodiments loads on the Calligraphus servers are automatically balanced between servers. User data streams tagged with a specific category bucket pair may be randomly distributed to any one of the plurality of Calligraphus servers.

In some embodiments user data streams collected by Calligraphus servers are appended to files and persisted to separate directories in HDFS. Calligraphus servers determine which HDFS directories to write the user data streams and their paths. In some embodiments output data streams from Calligraphus servers are grouped according to category bucket pairs. In some embodiments user data streams tagged with different category bucket pairs do not share a single data stream. Each output data stream is persisted to its own directory in HDFS. In some embodiments user data streams with certain category bucket pairs are directed to a particular Calligraphus server so that output data streams from Calligraphus servers can be consolidated and persisted to fewer HDFS directories.

In some embodiments an independent load management process is provided so that each Calligraphus server may independently inspect its own load and determine which subsets of its load to keep or shed.

In some embodiments a canonical Zookeeper leader election is run to determine which writers of the plurality of Calligraphus servers will actually handle a particular category bucket pair. When a specific leader dies the successor is immediately notified of the change and can immediately take over the leader position. In some embodiments the number of elections and load on each Calligraphus server can be dynamically controlled.

In some embodiment a registration database is provided for users to add new categories into the mapping between writers of the Calligraphus servers and category bucket pairs. During synchronization processes newly registered categories can be pushed into Zookeeper.

In some embodiments Ptail may determine which HDFS directory to read a specific user data stream its path and which Puma node to send the specific user data stream. Ptail periodically generates a Ptail checkpoint to a particular Puma node. The Ptail checkpoint may include necessary information to allow any process and or the Puma node to be quickly restored in substantially real time. The information may include the paths and HDFS directory information of user data streams on the particular Puma node. In some embodiments the information may include IDs of Calligraphus servers and or web backend servers that handled and or provided the user data streams on the particular Puma node.

In some embodiment the particular Puma node determines the timing of flushing cached user data streams. When the particular Puma node triggers a flush of in memory user data streams to HBase the latest Ptail checkpoint on the particular Puma node may also be persisted to HBase. When a specific process on the particular Puma node fails Ptail retrieves the latest Ptail checkpoint from HBase and restores the failed specific process based on the latest Ptail checkpoint.

In some embodiments when a specific process on the particular Puma node fails Puma retrieves the Ptail checkpoint from the storage. According to the information provided by the Ptail checkpoint Puma requests user data streams processed by the specific process from the scribeh system and restore the specific process in substantially real time.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. As will be realized the invention is capable of modifications in various aspects all without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

The drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be expanded or reduced to help improve the understanding of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Similarly some components and or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Moreover while the invention is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention however is not to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However in certain instances well known details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure can be but not necessarily are references to the same embodiment. Such references mean at least one of the embodiments.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the disclosure and in the specific context where each term is used. Certain terms that are used to describe the disclosure are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner regarding the description of the disclosure. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way.

Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any term discussed herein is illustrative only and is not intended to further limit the scope and meaning of the disclosure or of any exemplified term. Likewise the disclosure is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification.

Without intent to further limit the scope of the disclosure examples of instruments apparatus methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present disclosure are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the disclosure. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure pertains. In the case of conflict the present document including definitions will control.

However existing storage systems typically operate independently and deal with parallel processes or threads within a single system to analyze streams of data from a signal site. It remains a challenge to effectively recover failed threads of data streams from a large number of sites.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to failure recovery in storage systems. More specifically various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to systems and methods for restoring a failed process on an application node of the storage systems. Traditionally storage systems typically operate independently and deal with parallel processes or threads within a single system to analyze streams of data from a single server. In contrast various embodiments of the present disclosure support parallel processes or threads from multiple servers. User data streams are sharded by keys and sent to Puma nodes. The keys can be different from user keys that the user data streams were originally sharded. A Ptail checkpoint is generated periodically for a specific Puma node and persisted to HBase together with cached user data streams on the specific Puma node. When a process on the specific Puma node fails the Ptail checkpoint can be retrieved from HBase and used to restore the failed process in substantially real time.

While examples described herein refer to a social networking system the descriptions should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present disclosure. Various alternatives modifications and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without varying from the spirit of the invention. For example Ptail checkpoints may be implemented in any computing system organizing collected data streams. For another example Ptail checkpoints may be implemented in any computing system having a database management system DBMS . The DBMS may include HBase MySQL FoxPro IBM DB2 Linter Microsoft SQL Server Oracle PostgreSQL and SQLite etc.

The social networking system further described below in conjunction with comprises one or more computing devices storing user profiles associated with users and or other objects as well as connections between users and other users and or objects an access management system and a plurality of databases such as database storage . Users can store data i.e. photos videos messages electronic documents e mails records and related analytics i.e. usage analytics in the social networking system . The data can be submitted through various user devices and or other devices to allow the data to be stored on database storage . As illustrated in these devices and tools may use network to submit and retrieve information from the social networking system .

In some embodiments users join the social networking system and then add connections to other users or objects of the social networking system to which they desire to be connected. As further described below in conjunction with users of the social networking system may be individuals or entities such as businesses organizations universities and manufacturers. The social networking system allows its users to interact with each other as well as with other objects maintained by the social networking system . In some embodiments the social networking system allows users to interact with third party websites and the financial account provider .

Based on stored data about users objects and connections between users and or objects the social networking system generates and maintains a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph represents an object or user that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a user identifies an additional user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and an additional node representing the additional user. The generated edge has a connection type indicating that the users are friends. As various nodes interact with each other the social networking system modifies edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions.

User devices can be any computing device capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment user devices are a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer . In another embodiment user devices may be mobile device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. User devices are configured to communicate with access management system and or the financial account provider via the network . In one embodiment a user device executes an application allowing a user of the user devices to interact with the access management system . For example user devices can execute a browser application to enable interaction between the user devices and access management system via the network . In another embodiment user devices interact with access management system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as IOS or ANDROID .

User devices can be configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network may include one or more networks of any type i.e. wired and or wireless . For example the network may include a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN an ad hoc network the Internet an intranet a personal area network PAN a storage area network a home area network a campus area network a backbone network a metropolitan area network MAN an enterprise private network a virtual private network a virtual network a cellular telephone network a satellite network a telephone network i.e. a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an internet work or a combination of two or more of these. The network may use technologies such as Ethernet as defined by IEEE 802.XX 4G Long Term Evolution LTE 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT Advanced or a combination of two or more of these.

The networking protocols used in the network may include Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP Internetwork Packet Exchange Sequenced Packet Exchange IPX SPX User Datagram Protocol UDP Internet Control Message Protocol ICMP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Post Office Protocol POP3 File Transfer Protocol FTP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP X.25 AX.25 AppleTalk or a combination of two or more of these. Data exchanged over the network may be represented using formats such as HTML SGML based HTML and or XML based HTML etc.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images videos or other objects. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information on users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in the content store and stored in the edge store .

As further described below a user profile may be associated with one or more financial accounts allowing the user profile to include data retrieved from or derived from a financial account. A user may specify one or more privacy settings which are stored in the user profile that limit information from a financial account that the social networking system is permitted to access. For example a privacy setting limits the social networking system to accessing the transaction history of the financial account and not the current account balance. As another example a privacy setting limits the social networking system to a subset of the transaction history of the financial account allowing the social networking system to access transactions within a specified time range transactions involving less than a threshold transaction amounts transactions associated with specified vendor identifiers transactions associated with vendor identifiers other than specified vendor identifiers or any suitable criteria limiting information from a financial account identified by a user that is accessible by the social networking system . In one embodiment information from the financial account is stored in the user profile store . In other embodiments it may be stored in the financial account store which is further described below.

The content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos or audio files. Content items from the content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his or her connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social network system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of the social networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by the social networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system.

The content store also includes one or more pages associated with entities having user profiles in the user profile store . An entity is a non individual user of the social networking system such as a business a vendor an organization or a university. A page includes content associated with an entity and instructions for presenting the content to a social networking system user. For example a page identifies content associated with the entity s user profile as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the brand page. Vendors may be associated with pages in the content store allowing social networking system users to more easily interact with the vendor via the social networking system . A vendor identifier is associated with a vendor s page allowing the social networking system to identify the vendor and or to retrieve additional information about the vendor from the user profile store the action log or from any other suitable source using the vendor identifier. In some embodiments the content store may also store one or more targeting criteria associated with stored objects and identifying one or more characteristics of a user to which the object is eligible to be presented.

The action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off the social networking system populating the action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user and attending an event posted by another user among others. In some embodiments the action logger receives subject to one or more privacy settings transaction information from a financial account associated with a user and identifies user actions from the transaction information. For example the action logger retrieves vendor identifiers from the financial account s transaction history and identifies an object such as a page in the social networking system associated with the vendor identifier. This allows the action logger to identify a user s purchases of products or services that are associated with a page or another object in the content store . In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in the action log .

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system as well as external website that communicate information to the social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a group becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system . In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on external websites and or determined from a financial account associated with the user. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of a social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of the social networking system . Because users of the social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. The action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying. Actions identified by the action logger from the transaction history of a financial account associated with the user allow the action log to record further information about additional types of user actions. In some embodiments content of the action log may be stored in the database storage .

In one embodiment an edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on the social networking system in edge objects. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system. The edge store stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by the social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in the social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in the edge store in one embodiment. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in the user profile store or the user profile store may access the edge store to determine connections between users.

Ptail is an internal tool in the social networking system to aggregate user data streams from a scribeh system. The user data streams may be collected from web servers backend servers user scripts and cron applications etc. Periodically Ptail provides and caches Ptail checkpoints in memory of application nodes e.g. Puma nodes . On a specific application node the latest Ptail checkpoint is periodically persisted to HBase together with the aggregated user data streams. When a process on the specific application node fails the latest Ptail checkpoint can be retrieved from HBase and used to restore the failed process.

Puma node is a near real time analytic engine which is designed for analytics and insight report i.e. demographical breakdowns website analysis Clicks Likes Shares Comments and Impressions and can be used for processing and computing time series data. In some embodiments Puma node may batch data for a predetermined period of time e.g. 1.5 seconds 20 seconds or 5 minutes before forwarding them for either further processing or store them in HBase. In some embodiments Puma node may start a new batch when last flush is completed to avoid lock contention issues.

In one embodiment the database storage may be defined as a computer system for serving data to users. The database storage may be a computer system as described in . In some embodiments the database storage may include for example an HBase a MySQL a Hadoop machine a file server machine or a computer connected to multiple storage devices.

The database storage may contain any type of computer writable and readable storage media. By way of example the storage media may include a volatile memory i.e. a random access memory RAM etc. a non volatile memory i.e. a flash memory a read only memory ROM etc. a hard disk an optical disc a floppy disk a magnetic tape a solid state drive SSD a secure digital SD card or any suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these.

The scribeh system may include a plurality of Calligraphus servers HDFS and Zookeeper. In one embodiment the scribeh system may collect user data streams from a web server a backend server a user script and or a cron job etc. In another embodiment a user may submit the user data directly to the scribeh system. Each specific user data stream may be tagged with a particular category e.g. Category 1 cat1 Category 2 cat2 etc. In some embodiments each category may be subdivided into multiple buckets. User data streams may be sharded based on keys e.g. category bucket pairs .

In some embodiments when a downstream system of the scribeh system is down the scribeh system may be configured to buffer user data streams locally until the downstream system becomes available.

In some embodiments the plurality of Calligraphus servers collect user data streams from web and backend servers and then persist the incoming user data streams to HDFS. The user data streams may be randomly distributed among the plurality of Calligraphus servers. Each category of user data stream is distributed to any specific Calligraphus server. In some embodiments the load of the plurality of Calligraphus servers is automatically balanced between servers.

In some embodiments a specific output data stream from a Calligraphus server may be appended to files and persisted to one directory in the HDFS. When a downstream system requests the specific output data stream from the HDFS the specific output data stream may be provided in substantially a data stream format. In some embodiments user data from different categories do not share a single user data stream and are written to separate user data streams. Different Calligraphus servers may not share the same user data stream. Calligraphus servers take independent user data streams sharded in categories and write each user data stream to its own directory in HDFS. In some embodiments Calligraphus servers are configured to determine which directories to write the user data streams and the paths.

In some embodiments directories in HDFS may be replicated one or more times and stored in separate partitions or storage devices in the database storage. In some implementations directories in HDFS may be stored in a RAID array.

In some embodiments each of the plurality of Calligraphus servers may include two logical components a router and a writer. The writer divides received user data streams into categories and subsets of categories i.e. buckets . The router is configured to look up a mapping between writers of the plurality of Calligraphus servers and categories of user data streams.

In some embodiments the plurality of Calligraphus servers may direct a specific user data stream to a particular writer according to the mapping between writers and categories. By consolidating user data streams tagged with the same category into a single user data stream the total number of HDFS directories may be minimized.

Zookeeper may be used as a platform for task allocation to provide a distributive map for routers of the plurality of Calligraphus servers. In some embodiments the distributive map includes information in the form of paths. The paths may be defined as the relation between writers and categories. In some embodiments a specific category may be subdivided into buckets if data streams of the specific category are too large to be handled by any given writer of the plurality of Calligraphus servers.

Under each path a canonical Zookeeper leader election can be run to determine the owners of a particular category bucket pair and which writer of the plurality of Calligraphus servers will actually handle the particular category bucket pair. When a specific leader or a specific candidate dies the successor immediately gets notified of the change and can take over right away. In some embodiments Bootstrap hosts may randomly join these elections so that any of the plurality of Calligraphus servers may serve a load in a normal distribution among the Calligraphus servers.

In some embodiments an independent load management process may be provided for the Calligraphus servers to allow each Calligraphus server to inspect its own load and determine subsets of its load. Each Calligraphus server may independently determine which subsets of its load to keep or shed without consulting with any other nodes.

In some embodiments the entire mapping or important aspect of hierarchy between writers and categories buckets may be cached into memory of each of the plurality of Calligraphus servers. Cached mapping information in memory of each Calligraphus server can reduce network I O between Zookeeper and each Calligraphus server and minimize the network I O delay resulted from communications between Zookeeper and Calligraphus servers.

The scribeh system may also include a registration database to continually add new categories into the mapping between writers and category bucket pairs. The registration database is configured to allow users to register new categories and during a synchronization process push newly registered categories into Zookeeper.

In some embodiments when a user registers a new category the registration database may ask the user to specify how much network capacity the user will use for the new category. The registration database assigns a network capacity limit for the user and monitors network usage of the user. When the network usage of the user exceeds the limit the registration database may alert the user.

In some embodiments the number of elections and the number of data streams from the Calligraphus servers can be dynamically controlled. Whenever there is a throughput change with a specific category in the mapping the number of buckets allocated under the specific category can be automatically modified.

The scribeh system is coupled to Ptail. Ptail gets user data streams with specific keys e.g. category bucket pairs from HDFS and or Calligraphus servers and stream the user data streams to a near real time analytic engine e.g. Puma . An application node of the near real time analytic engine may cache the real time mapping between writers and category bucket pairs. In some embodiments Ptail is configured to determine which HDFS directory to read a specific user data stream what the path is and which application node to send the specific user data stream.

Examples of processes on an application node may include real time total impressions clicks actions conversions per domain ad etc. real time demographics breakdowns of metrics e.g. impressions of 25 29 mail users real time uniques e.g. unique users per ad for today till now 7 days till now or days till now daily active users on mobile and or real time page insights which is page and post stats for page admins e.g. uniques and counts .

Ptail may generate log lines and pass off the log lines to a particular Puma node as illustrated in . A driver in the particular Puma node passes the log lines to a pool of working threads that parse the log lines process them and send them to appropriate memory for in memory aggregation. Periodically e.g. every 20 seconds Ptail generates a Ptail checkpoint to a Ptail checkpoint handler in the particular Puma node. The Ptail checkpoint may contain necessary information to allow any process of the Puma node or the entire Puma node to be quickly restored up to the time when the checkpoint is generated. The information may include the paths and specific HDFS directories of user data streams on the particular Puma node. In some embodiments the information may include IDs of servers that originally provided the user data streams on the particular Puma node. A series of checkpoints issued by the Ptail in sequence may represent a partial ordering of user data streams.

In one embodiment the checkpoint handler determines the timing of flushing the in memory data cached at the particular Puma node. Within a flush interval which is how often in memory data are persisted multiple Ptail checkpoints may be received from Ptail. The checkpoint handler may ignore the arrival of any Ptail checkpoint. When the checkpoint handler triggers a flush of the in memory data from the aggregation store to a database storage e.g. an HBase and a MySQL the latest Ptail checkpoint received by the checkpoint handler may also be persisted to the database storage.

As illustrated in if a client wants to read a specific data from the HBase the client can send a request to a thrift server of the Puma node. The thrift server stands proxy to request a storage interface to provide the specific data. The storage interface can read the specific data from the HBase based on the request.

In some embodiments backups of the database storage e.g. an HBase and a MySQL may be managed by a database operation engine. Data stored in the database storage can be replicated as distributed rsync jobs. In some instances the replication of the database storage can be used both as a backup data and a hot standby data for cases requiring Benchmark Control Point BCP .

When a specific process on a particular application node fails Ptail requests a copy of the latest Ptail checkpoint persisted on the database storage e.g. an HBase and a MySQL . Based on the latest Ptail checkpoint a new process can be generated to quickly restore the specific process up to the point when the latest Ptail checkpoint was generated.

In some embodiments Ptail may request user data streams handled by the failed specific process from HDFS directories according to the paths and specific HDFS directory information in the latest Ptail checkpoint.

In some embodiments the Ptail checkpoint may contain IDs of Calligraphus servers that supplied the user data streams to the particular application node. Ptail may rebuild a new process by requesting user data streams directly from memories of Calligraphus servers according to the server IDs and or the paths of the user data streams. If the user data streams are not cached in memory of the Calligraphus servers the Calligraphus servers may act as proxy to request the data from the corresponding web backend servers that originally submitted the data.

In some embodiments Ptail may request persisted in memory data from the database according to the latest Ptail checkpoint and restore the specific process based on the retrieved data from the database.

In some embodiments a read API may be provided on the particular application node to read the latest Ptail checkpoint and or the persisted in memory data from the database. In some embodiments database e.g. HBase queries and storage format are optimized and evolve over time. Persisted data in the database may be read using a fixed interface.

In some embodiments user data streams collected by Calligraphus servers are appended to files and persisted to separate directories in HDFS. Calligraphus servers are configured to determine what HDFS clusters to write the user data streams and their paths. In some embodiments output data streams from Calligraphus servers are separated according to category bucket pairs. User data from different category bucket pairs do not share a single data stream. Calligraphus servers take each output data stream with a specific category bucket pair and persist the output data stream to its own category in HDFS. In some embodiments the output data streams can be consolidated and persisted to fewer HDFS directories by directing user data streams with certain category bucket pairs to a particular Calligraphus server.

At step user data streams are sharded based on keys e.g. category bucket pairs and then streamed to an application node e.g. a Puma node . Sharded user data streams for a specific key may be sent to appropriate memory for in memory aggregation at step . In some embodiments Ptail generates a Ptail checkpoint to the application node. The checkpoint may include information for Ptail to rebuild a failed process of the application node and or the entire application node. The information may include specific HDFS directories the paths and or identifications of servers provided sharded user data streams on the application node.

At step the application node periodically triggers a flush of aggregated memory content to a database storage. The application node may receive one or more checkpoints from Ptail within a flush interval. Only the latest Ptail checkpoint is persisted to the database together with the other aggregated memory content.

When a process with the application node fails at step the latest Ptail checkpoint can be read from the database storage. At step Ptail requests the same set of user data streams processed by the failed process according to the latest Ptail checkpoint. The same set of user data streams may be requested from HDFS based on the keys and HDFS directory information included in the Ptail checkpoint. In some embodiments the same set of user data streams may be requested from memory of the corresponding Calligraphus servers and or the corresponding web backend servers according to the Ptail checkpoint. At step the failed process of the application node can be restored based on the Ptail checkpoint and the retrieved user data streams. In some embodiments the failed process can be restored based on the latest Ptail checkpoint and aggregated user data streams persisted on the storage e.g. HBase and MySQL .

While the method of is described in the context of a single database storage the present disclosure contemplates a plurality of synchronous databases storages. The plurality of synchronous databases storages can be located at a single location or a variety of locations.

The computer system may take a variety of physical forms. By way of examples the computer system may be a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computer a tablet PC a wearable computer an interactive kiosk a mobile phone a server a mainframe computer a mesh connected computer a single board computer SBC i.e. a BeagleBoard a PC on a stick a Cubieboard a CuBox a Gooseberry a Hawkboard a Mbed a OmapZoom a Origenboard a Pandaboard a Pandora a Rascal a Raspberry Pi a SheevaPlug a Trim Slice etc. an embedded computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate the computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

The computer system preferably may include an operating system such as but not limited to Windows Linux or Unix . The operating system may include a file management system which organizes and keeps track of files. In some embodiments a separate file management system may be provided. The separate file management can interact smoothly with the operating system and provide enhanced and or more features such as improved backup procedures and or stricter file protection.

The at least one processor may be any suitable processor. The type of the at least one processor may comprise one or more from a group comprising a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a graphics processing unit GPU a physics processing unit PPU a digital signal processor a network processor a front end processor a data processor a word processor and an audio processor.

The one or more bus is configured to couple components of the computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation the one or more bus may include a graphics bus i.e. an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HyperTransport HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an Infiniband interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Although the present disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnects.

The one or more network interface may include one or more of a modem or network interface. It will be appreciated that a modem or network interface can be considered to be part of the computer system . The interface can include an analog modem an asymmetric digital subscribe line ADSL modem a cable modem a doubleway satellite modem a power line modem a token ring interface a Cambridge ring interface a satellite transmission interface or any suitable interface for coupling a computer system to other computer systems. The interface can include one or more input and or output devices. The I O devices can include by way of example but not limitation a keyboard a mouse or other pointing device disk drives printers a scanner a touch screen a Tablet screen and other input and or output devices including a display device. The display device can include by way of example but not limitation a cathode ray tube CRT display a liquid crystal display LCD a 3 D display or some other applicable known or convenient display device. For simplicity it is assumed that controllers of any devices not depicted in the example of reside in the interface.

The computer readable medium may include any medium device that is accessible by the processor . As an example and not by way of limitation the computer readable medium may include volatile memory i.e. a random access memory RAM a dynamic RAM DRAM and or a static RAM SRAM and non volatile memory i.e. a flash memory a read only memory ROM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable programmable ROM EPROM and or an electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM . When appropriate the volatile memory and or non volatile memory may be single ported or multiple ported memory. This disclosure contemplates any suitable memory. In some embodiments the computer readable medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC i.e. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc i.e. a CD ROM or a digital versatile disk DVD an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD a magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a secure digital SD card a SD drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. The computer readable medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Programs may be stored on the one or more computer readable media . As an example but not by way of limitation the computer system may load the programs to an appropriate location on the one or more compute readable media for execution. The programs when executed may cause the computer system to perform one or more operations or one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In some implementations the operations may include but are not limited to collecting user data streams from a plurality of web and backend servers wherein the user data streams are collected by a scribeh system sharding the user data streams based on keys the keys including a plurality of categories wherein each category is subdivided into one or more buckets streaming the sharded user data to an application node aggregating sharded user data streams in memory of the application node according to the keys periodically persisting memory content and a latest Ptail checkpoint on the application node to a storage when a specific process of the application node fails retrieving the Ptail checkpoint from the storage requesting user data streams handled by the failed specific process from the scribeh system according to the Ptail checkpoint and restoring the specific process on the application node in substantially real time based on the requested user data streams and the latest Ptail checkpoint.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the operations or methods may be instantiated locally i.e. on one local computer system and may be distributed across remote computer systems. For example it may be determined that the available computing power of the local computer system is insufficient or that additional computing power is needed and may offload certain aspects of the operations to the cloud.

While the computer readable medium is shown in an embodiment to be a single medium the term computer readable medium should be taken to include single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database storage and or associated caches and servers that stores the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the computer and that cause the computer to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the presently disclosed technique and innovation.

Further examples of computer readable medium machine readable storage medium machine readable medium or computer readable storage medium include but are not limited to recordable type medium such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives optical disks Digital Versatile Disks among others and transmission type medium such as digital and analog communication links.

In some circumstances operation of a memory device such as a change in state from a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa for example may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. With particular types of memory devices such a physical transformation may comprise a physical transformation of an article to a different state or thing. For example but without limitation for some types of memory devices a change in state may involve an accumulation and storage of charge or a release of stored charge. Likewise in other memory devices a change of state may comprise a physical change or transformation in magnetic orientation or a physical change or transformation in molecular structure such as from crystalline to amorphous or vice versa. The foregoing is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all examples in which a change in state for a binary one to a binary zero or vice versa in a memory device may comprise a transformation such as a physical transformation. Rather the foregoing provide illustrative examples.

A storage medium typically may be non transitory or comprise a non transitory device. In this context a non transitory storage medium may include a device that is tangible meaning that the device has a concrete physical form although the device may change its physical state. Thus for example non transitory refers to a device remaining tangible despite this change in state.

The computer may be but is not limited to a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a laptop computer a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone an iPhone an iPad a processor a telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in a client server network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

Some portions of the detailed description may be presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or generating or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the methods of some embodiments. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the techniques are not described with reference to any particular programming language and various embodiments may thus be implemented using a variety of programming languages.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as programs. The programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processing units or processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations to execute elements involving the various aspects of the disclosure.

Moreover while embodiments have been described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the disclosure applies equally regardless of the particular type of computer readable medium used to actually effect the distribution.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but is not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of embodiments of the disclosure is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the teachings to the precise form disclosed above. While specific embodiments of and examples for the disclosure are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the disclosure as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or sub combinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teaching of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other systems and not necessarily to the system described above. Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further embodiments of the disclosure.

These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain embodiments of the disclosure and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the teachings can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the subject matter disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the disclosure should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the disclosure with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the disclosure to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the disclosure encompasses not only the disclosed embodiments but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the disclosure under the claims.

While certain aspects of the disclosure are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the disclosure in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the disclosure is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for . Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

