---

title: System and method for simulating virtual queuing of calls
abstract: The present method and system provides for call center simulation including receiving a plurality of input parameters relating to call center operations, wherein the call center operations include a main queue for processing on-hold calls and a virtual queue for processing a plurality of call back requests. The method and system further includes generating a call arrival dataset based at least on the plurality of input parameters and simulating call center operations for managing the call arrival dataset across the time sequence, including placing a portion of the call arrival dataset into the virtual queue. The method and system includes simulating a metering of the call arrival dataset in the virtual queue for a metered wait time based at least on a queuing factor and generating a simulation output indicating operations processed via the main queue and the virtual queue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178997&OS=09178997&RS=09178997
owner: CALLPROMISE, LLC
number: 09178997
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130603
---
The present application is a continuation in part and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 908 234 filed on Jun. 3 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 065 916 issued Jun. 23 2015 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR VIRTUAL QUEUING OF CALLS which relates to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 654 588 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR VIRTUAL QUEUING OF CALLS filed Jun. 1 2012.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to call center management operations and more specifically to simulation operations relating to call center operations where the simulations account for a virtual queuing of customer calls.

Call centers receive calls from numerous customers. The high volume of calls often necessitates the use of call queues in which the customers must wait until an agent of the call center is available to assist the caller. However in call systems utilizing virtual queuing a customer may opt to receive a call back from an agent of the call center instead of waiting on the phone. If so the call remains in the queue of the call center but the customer may disconnect from the call. When the customer s call reaches the head of the queue the call center calls the customer back and connects the customer to an agent. As such in typical virtual queuing systems each call is queued either normally i.e. the customer waits on the line or virtually i.e. the customer is called back . Such functionality occurs completely within the call center and may require additional devices components software and structure to provide the virtual queuing functionality.

Customer service interactions and call center activities are major cost factors for companies. These call centers are both essential to managing customers but also relate directly to customer relations and satisfaction. Call centers themselves seek operation as maximum efficiency for not only solving the concerns of the customer but also for managing staffing of service agents. A company seeks to find an economic medium between the staffing of call centers and managing customer expectations for service operations.

Staffing analytics and call management systems seek to optimize the staffing requirements of call centers but these existing systems fail to account for virtual queuing techniques. Thus a call center that utilizes a virtual queue or seeks to understand operational optimization with a virtual queue cannot use the existing simulation or optimization software. These call centers are then unable to better approximate or estimate the staffing requirements throughout various time intervals.

Therefore there exists a need for workforce management and planning systems to be able to account for virtual queuing and incorporate the effects of virtual queuing in the software simulation operations.

The present method and system provides for call center simulation. The method and system includes receiving a plurality of input parameters relating to call center operations wherein the call center operations include a main queue for processing on hold calls and a virtual queue for processing a plurality of call back requests. The method and system further includes generating a call arrival dataset based at least on the plurality of input parameters the call arrival dataset representing plurality of customer calls across a time sequence and simulating call center operations for managing the call arrival dataset across the time sequence including placing a portion of the call arrival dataset into the virtual queue. Therein the method and system further includes simulating a metering of the call arrival dataset in the virtual queue for a metered wait time based at least on a queuing factor and generating a simulation output indicating the call center operations applicable to the call arrival dataset processed via the main queue and the virtual queue.

Thereby the present method and system operates to run a call center simulation accounting for a virtual queue. Prior techniques failed to include virtual queuing thus were unable to account for callback requests from customers.

In one embodiment the input parameters can include one or more of a number of call center agents a number of calls an average handle time and a duration of simulation parameter. Moreover during the simulation a user may adjust one or more of the input parameters and thereby the simulation is accordingly modified.

Another embodiment of the virtual queue can include a virtual queue selection factor for determining the plurality of call back requests. The virtual queue selection indicates a simulation of the number of customers that would elect to use the callback features compared with other customers who remain in an on hold status until a customer agent becomes available. Moreover in one embodiment the user may adjust virtual queue selection factor to increase or decrease the number of users electing to use the virtual queue wherein the simulation is adjusted accordingly.

Another embodiment of the present method and system accounts for the time distribution of the dataset. While the dataset represents a number of calls over the time period those calls are distributed in a distribution pattern to better represent actual call volumes over a time period.

Another embodiment of the simulation includes the generation of output statistics for one or more call center metrics based on the simulating of call center operations. Wherein the output may further include a graphical representation of operations of the call center including graphical representations of main queue processing virtual queue processing and call center agent engagement activities.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention implemented in a computer system may include one or more bus based interconnects between components and or one or more point to point interconnects between components. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

Several embodiments of a virtual queuing system and associated telecommunications system for providing virtual queuing are presented in the figures and discussed in detail below. Each of the virtual queuing system embodiments provides the service of virtual queuing for a call center. Wherein the simulation operations are conducted based on the simulated operations of the virtual queue system described herein.

Referring now to in one embodiment a telecommunications system includes one or more customer communication devices a virtual queuing system and a call center . The customer communication device may be embodied as any type of communication or computing device capable of communicating with the virtual queuing system over a network in a manner as discussed in more detail below. For example the customer communication device may be embodied as a land based phone a cellular based phone a smart phone a portable computing device a lap top computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a personal computer a personal digital assistant a smart television a vehicle in dash control or communication system or other appliance or other electronic communication device capable of communicating with the virtual queuing system over the network .

The network may be embodied as any type of network capable of supporting communications between the customer communication device and the virtual queuing system . For example the network may be embodied as or otherwise include a telecommunications network a land based telephone network a cellular phone network a satellite based network a data network a global publically accessible network such as the Internet and or a combination thereof. Additionally the network may include various devices such as routers switches hubs and the like to facilitate the communications between the customer communication device and the virtual queuing system .

The virtual queuing system may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more communication or data servers and or telecommunication subsystems capable of performing the functions described herein. In the illustrative embodiment the virtual queuing system includes a short message system SMS interface to receive SMS messages a web or network interface to receive web based communications and or one or more additional interfaces . As discussed in more detail below the virtual queuing system is configured to receive a communication request from the user using the customer communication device and or the customer computing device via one of the interfaces . For example in embodiments in which the customer communication device is embodied as a smart phone or other communication device capable of generating SMS messages the virtual queuing system may receive such SMS messages from the customer communication device over the network via the SMS interface . Alternatively in embodiments in which the customer communication device is embodied as a computing device such as a tablet or desktop computer the virtual queuing system may receive web based communication requests e.g. data supplied to a web based form e mails or other web based communications from the customer communication device over the network via the web interface . In such embodiments the web interface may be embodied as a web portal accessible by the customer communication device to supply data to the virtual queuing system as discussed below. The virtual queuing system also maintains a virtual queue of calls received from the customers which are subsequently submitted to the call center for handling based on the particular implementation of the virtual queuing system . The communication request is a request for communication with a communication agent located in the call center.

The call center may be embodied as any type of call center and may include one or more computers data servers telecommunication subsystems and or other telephony communication enabling devices. In some embodiments the call center may include those structures found in a typical call center. In the illustrative embodiment of the call center includes a standard dialed number identification service DNIS to receive calls made directly to the call center e.g. directly from the customer communication device an alternate DNIS to receive calls and or other communications directly from the virtual queuing system over a network and or a session initiation protocol SIP address to receive communications directly from the virtual queuing system over the network .

Similar to the network the network may be embodied as any type of network capable of supporting communications between the virtual queuing system and the call center . For example the network may be embodied as or otherwise include a telecommunications network a land based telephone network a cellular phone network a data network a global publically accessible network such as the Internet and or a combination thereof. Additionally the network may include various devices such as routers switches hubs and the like to facilitate the communications between the virtual queuing system and the call center .

In use a customer may request virtual queuing i.e. a call back from the call center by submitting a call back request directly to the virtual queuing system . The callback request allows the user to avoid the on hold wait time. To do so the customer may operate the customer communication device to request the call back from and provide associated information to the virtual queuing system by submitting a SMS message to the SMS interface of the virtual queuing system and or by submitting a web based request to the web interface . In response the virtual queuing system is configured to contact the call center to submit the customer s information to the call center and subsequently call the customer back when an agent of the call center is available. The virtual call center meters the wait time as described in greater detail below prior to the call back operation. In this way the customer may request virtual queuing i.e. request a call back without directly accessing the call center .

Referring now to in operation the virtual queuing system may execute a method for providing virtual queuing. The illustrative method begins with block in which the virtual queuing system receives a call back request from the user. As noted above the user submits a communication request for communication with a communication agent of the call center. As discussed above the virtual queuing system may receive the call back request as a SMS message from the customer communication device via the SMS interface e.g. a customer may text a call back number as a web based request from the customer communication device via the web interface or as another type of call back request from the customer communication device via the additional interface . It is noted that in some embodiments the communication request and the call back request may be supplied within the same communication for example in the embodiment wherein the user sends a direct call back request message via a messaging or other communication system. Whereas in further embodiments the user may first engage the call center and then seek a call back request where the communication request provides for the initial contact with the call center and the call back request engages the virtual queuing system described herein.

In block the virtual queuing system receives or otherwise retrieves customer information. Such customer information may include for example the customer s name preferred callback phone number desired callback time customer ID order ID customer record number summary of the customer s question product information related to the customer s question or issue and or other information related to the customer s call. In some embodiments some of the customer information may be stored in the virtual queuing system and or the call center . For example in some embodiments the customer s name and associated information may be stored in the virtual queuing system in association with the customer s contact information such that the customer s identification may be automatically retrieved and or populated without the need of the customer supplying such information.

When the user requests the call back operation the user s communication is then placed in the virtual queuing system .

In block the virtual queuing system meters the placement of a call into the call center . The virtual queuing system may meter the communication request to the call center as a function of various criteria. For example in one embodiment the virtual queuing system meters the call based on an estimated on hold wait time EWT which is the estimated time until an agent of the call center answers the customer s call. Additionally in some embodiments the virtual queuing system may meter the call based on a predefined or reference patience factor which is defined as the amount of time an average customer would rather wait to receive a call relative to the current estimated wait time. For example if the EWT is 5 minutes the average customer may be willing to wait 10 12 or 15 minutes for a call back rather than wait on line. In one particular embodiment the patience factor is selected to be a number in the range of 2.5 to 3 but may have other values in other embodiments. In this way telco cost and capacity savings may be realized by the system by delivering calls to agents of the call center at the same rate at which the calls can be answered. It should be appreciated that such call metering techniques may include the appropriate configuration by the call center for the skill groups at which the call center is receiving metered calls. For example the call metered skill groups may require a higher priority setting to ensure that the call metered calls trump the normally queued calls. Other embodiments may include an appropriate percent allocation setting across skill groups of the call center to ensure the call metered calls are allocated to agents. In another embodiment the metering may be based on user information including but not limited to information relating to a status or class of user. For example priority users or members may be given a quicker metering within the priority queue such as the example of the call center providing customer service for an airline and if the user information includes a frequent flyer number the user may be given prioritized virtual queue metering.

After expiration of the metered wait time in block the virtual queuing system places a call into the call center over the network in block . To do so the virtual queuing system may place the call into a private or special purpose DNIS i.e. the alternate DNIS . In some embodiments such a call into the alternate DNIS may be a local call or otherwise generate a charge less than the charge for the customer to call the standard DNIS . Additionally or alternatively the virtual queuing system may place the call into the call center using the SIP address rather than a Direct Inward Dialing DID number of the call center.

In some embodiments the virtual queuing system may submit the customer information to the call center in block . Such customer information may be provided to the call center via an audio whisper or in a data header depending on the type of communication established between the virtual queuing system and the call center . Once a call is placed to the call center the virtual queuing system waits for an agent of the call center to be available to accept the customer s call in block . In this way the virtual queuing system acts as a proxy for the customer by waiting in the queue of the call center .

In some embodiments the agent may provide confirmation to the virtual queuing system that he she is ready to accept the call. For example the agent may be presented with the associated customer information via a screen pop up or other data screen via computer telephony integration CTI or hear the customer information via an audio whisper. The call center agent may confirm readiness for the call by signaling e.g. by pressing a respective digit or key on an agent keypad or softphone to the virtual queuing system .

Once an agent of the call center becomes available the virtual queuing system calls the customer back at the provided call back number in block . In some embodiments if the customer is not available the virtual queuing system may reattempt the call a predetermined number of times. Additionally if a customer s voicemail is received the virtual queuing system may be configured to generate a canned or otherwise pre recorded voicemail. In some embodiments the placement of the pre recorded voicemail may be initiated in response to a command e.g. a specific key or sequence of keys provided by the agent. The call center agent may then disconnect to move to the next call while the virtual queuing system places the pre recorded voicemail. In other embodiments the pre recorded voicemail is placed without interaction from the agent.

If the customer is determined to be available in block i.e. the customer answers the call back call the virtual queuing system bridges the call center agent and the customer in block . In some embodiments the virtual queuing system may playa pre recorded audio introduction that is customized for a particular call center prior to connecting the customer to the call center agent. In this way a single virtual queuing system may manage and facilitate multiple call centers which may be established by different companies.

As discussed above the customer may reengage the virtual queue at any time during the call back call. For example if the customer is put on hold of an extended period of time the customer may opt to receive another call back when the agent has completed whatever task has the agent occupied at that time. To do so the customer may select a pre defined key or sequence of keys to opt into the virtual queue. In such embodiments the call back call may be routed to the same call back agent when appropriate. Additionally in some embodiments the virtual queuing system may provide for dropped call callbacks. For example if the customer s signal goes bad or suddenly drops the call center agent may select a predefined key or sequence of keys to automatically redial the customer. In this way the agent need not research the customer contact information to reengage the customer.

Simulation operations now account for the virtual queue as well as standard on hold queue processing for call center operations. illustrates a flowchart of one embodiment of a method for call center simulation. The present methodology may further be incorporated and executed using a processing device in response to executable instructions. For example the simulation operations may be software viewable through a browser or any other type of display interface.

In the illustrated embodiment step of a call center simulation is the receiving of any number of input parameters relating to call center operations where the call center operations include both on hold processing and virtual queue processing. Various embodiments provide for a variety of input parameters such as but not limited to the number of call center agents at one or more time periods the number of calls being processed by the call center an average call handle time representing the average time it takes for the agent to handle the call and a duration of simulation. It is recognized by one skilled in the art that additional input parameters may be utilized and the above list is exemplary and not limiting in nature.

Also visible in the screenshot is the additional factors relating to the virtual queuing and account for the virtual queuing in the simulation. These factors include variables to increase agent count offer callback at an estimated wait time a callback acceptance percentage and a pre queue duration. As used herein the callback acceptance percentage is also referred to as a virtual queue selection factor when executing the simulation as described below. In running the simulation the user may also apply a patience factor where the patience factor may be a factor applicable to determining the virtual queue metering based on a level of patience a call has for receiving a callback versus having to wait directly on hold.

Referring back to step is generating a call arrival dataset based on one or more of the input parameters the call arrival dataset represents customer calls across a time sequence. The dataset itself is also distributed across the time sequence using any number of distribution techniques. For example one embodiment may use a pseudo Poisson s distribution for adjusting the dataset across the time sequence. Additionally a user may further adjust the time distribution for either including peaks and valleys or smoothing out the call distribution.

The call arrival dataset may be generated based on a call center s existing operational records. For example a call center may have tracking information for their call center over a defined period of time and that data can then used as the base data for the call arrival data. Therefore the simulation can illustrate the benefits of the virtual queue to an existing call center using the call center s own historical data.

The value of the simulation is based in large part on the dataset being simulated therefore it can be beneficial to include modifications to the dataset distribution to account for normal variations for example an increase in the number of calls during break times for typical work days. In this example there may be a high volume call time around twelve noon as customers and there may be a low call volume time in the early afternoon therefore the dataset distribution can be adjusted to reflect these variations.

In the flowchart of step is simulating the call center operations for managing the call arrival dataset across the time sequence including placing a portion of the call arrival dataset into the virtual queue. Where prior simulation techniques focused exclusively on on hold users the simulation operation in step accounts for the virtual queue. The simulation operations are similar to existing simulation techniques but also include accounting for the virtual queue.

Therein step includes simulating a metering of the call arrival dataset for a metered wait time based at least on a queuing factor. As described in further detail herein relating to the operation of a virtual queuing system the queuing factor provides for determining a rate of passing customers through the virtual queue prior to call back operations. For example the queuing factor may be based on the estimated wait time may be based on user information associated with callers may be based on a patience factor or any other suitable factor s . The simulation of the metering of step simulates the operations described herein relating to the virtual queuing system.

Step provides for generating a simulation output indicating the call center operations applicable to the call arrival dataset processed via the main queue and the virtual queue. The simulation output can provide ongoing statistical display for the user to view the call center operations where the statistics relate to call center metrics. illustrates a sample screenshot of a moment in time of a simulation including the display of various statistics based on call center metrics. For example the display includes an ongoing number of received calls the elapsed time of the simulation the number of virtually queued calls and other statistics. Also visible is a graphical representation of the main queue having a number of pending callers the virtual queue having a number of users awaiting callbacks and the priority queue. Also illustrated is a representation of the agents and whether the agent is engaged with a caller.

In one embodiment the simulation can run at an accelerated pace to better illustrate the call center operations over the time period. In one embodiment the simulation runs at a pace of every one minute in the simulation display represents sixty minutes of call center activities. It is recognized that any suitable correlation of call center operation time to simulation display time can be utilized to accelerate the simulation.

Therein simulation operations and associated graphical display allow for users to simulation call center operations where such simulations take into account the virtual queue operations described herein.

Referring now to in some embodiments the virtual queuing system is configured to call the customer back prior to calling the call center. In such embodiments the virtual queuing system may maintain the virtual queue as discussed above and the call center may maintain a priority queue in which the call back calls are place in addition to a main queue . As discussed in more detail below the virtual queuing system may be configured to call the customer back first and upon successfully reaching the customer call the call center to place the customer in the priority queue .

As shown in the virtual queuing system may execute a method for providing virtual queuing in the embodiment of . The method begins with block in which the virtual queuing system receives a call back request from the customer. As discussed above with regard to the virtual queuing system may receive the call back request as a SMS message from the customer communication device via the SMS interface e.g. a customer may text a call back number as a web based request from the customer communication device via the web interface or as another type of call back request from the customer communication device via the additional interface .

In block the virtual queuing system receives or otherwise retrieves customer information. Again such customer information may include for example the customer s name preferred callback phone number desired callback time customer ID order ID customer record number summary of the customer s question product information related to the customer s question or issue and or other information related to the customer s call. In some embodiments some of the customer information may be stored in the virtual queuing system and or the call center .

In block the virtual queuing system meters the customer s call back call based on a queuing factor. The queuing factor can be a function of one or more of various criteria such as the estimated wait time at the call center a patience factor or other variable as discussed above. Additionally in some embodiments the virtual queuing system may consider additional account factors such as how many calls are already in the priority queue and how many calls are active i.e. an agent has answered the call that have originated from the virtual queuing system . Taking such factors into account the virtual queuing system may effectively control the flow of calls into the priority queue such that the customer who has been called back is required to wait only a short duration in the priority queue . Such flow control also allows for savings of the telco capacity and usage e.g. call minutes used .

After expiration of the metered wait time the virtual queuing system calls the customer back at the provided call back number in block . Again the virtual queuing system may reattempt the call a predetermined number of times if the customer is not available and or leave a pre recorded voicemail message if a customer s voicemail is received.

If however the customer is reached in block the virtual queuing system places a call into the call center in block . To do so the virtual queuing system may place the call into the alternate DNIS and or place the call into the call center using the SIP address rather than a Direct Inward Dialing DID number of the call center. In some embodiments the virtual queuing system may submit the customer information to the call center in block .

If the call center agent is determined to be available in block the virtual queuing system bridges the customer and the call center agent in block . As discussed above the virtual queuing system may play a pre recorded audio introduction that is customized for a particular call center prior to connecting the customer to the call center agent. Additionally the customer may reengage the virtual queue at any time during the call back call. Further the agent may automatically reengage the call by selecting a predefined key or sequence of keys should the call be dropped.

Referring now to in some embodiments the virtual queuing system may provide virtual queuing by wrapping the customer call or call center. In such embodiments the customer may place a call to the call center which is subsequently re routed through the virtual queuing system . When the call is re routed in this way two separate call legs are created. One call leg is embodied as the inbound call leg from the customer s communication device to the virtual queuing system while the other call leg is the outbound call leg from the virtual queuing service to the call center . When the two call legs are bridged by the virtual queuing system the caller may interact with the call center as normal i.e. as if the call was not re routed through the virtual queuing system . However because the call has been re routed through the virtual queuing system the customer may elect callback at any time during the queuing period. In this way the customer s call into the call center is wrapped by the virtual queuing system .

Referring now to one embodiment of such a virtual queuing wrapper system is shown. In such embodiment the virtual queuing system may include an alternate phone number which may be published by the call center as a direct call in number for the call center . However instead of reaching the call center the customer is actually calling a number that terminates at the virtual queuing system . The virtual queuing system maintains the virtual queue which is populated from the main queue of the call center when a customer opts for a call back.

As shown in the virtual queuing system may execute a method for providing virtual queuing in the embodiment of . The method begins with block in which the virtual queuing system determines whether a customer call is received. As discussed above the customer may call into the alternate phone number that terminates at the virtual queuing system . If a customer call is received on the alternate phone number the method advances to block in which the customer is connected to the call center . To do so the customer s call may be placed in the main queue of the call center and answered by an agent of the call center in the order of the main queue . However because the customer call has been wrapped by the virtual queuing system the customer may opt to receive a callback at any time e.g. by selecting a predefined key or sequence of keys . As such if the customer waits in the main queue for some time the customer may decide to receive a callback rather than continue waiting in the main queue . Alternatively in other embodiments the customer may simply abandon the call without having pressed any predefined key or key sequence to request a callback. In such embodiments the virtual queuing system assumes the queue spot of the abandoned call in the main queue of the call center . Such embodiments may be referred to as zero abandon systems because the call center is able to easily recover would be abandoned callers.

If the customer does request to receive a callback in block the method advances to block in the virtual queuing system receives or otherwise retrieves customer information. As discussed above in regard to method of such customer information may include for example the customer s name preferred callback phone number desired callback time customer ID order ID customer record number summary of the customer s question product information related to the customer s question or issue and or other information related to the customer s call. In some embodiments some of the customer information may be stored in the virtual queuing system and or the call center . For example in some embodiments the customer s name and associated information may be stored in the virtual queuing system in association with the customer s contact information such that the customer s identification may be automatically retrieved and or populated without the need of the customer supplying such information.

After the customer information is received or retrieved in block the virtual queuing system disconnects from the customer and maintains the customer s call in the virtual queue in block . Subsequently in block the virtual queuing system waits for an agent of the call center to be available to accept the customer s call. Once an agent of the call center becomes available the virtual queuing system calls the customer back at the provided call back number in block . As discussed above with regard to method of the virtual queuing system may reattempt the call a predetermined number of times if the customer is not available and or leave a pre recorded voicemail message if a customer s voicemail is received.

If the customer is determined to be available in block i.e. the customer answers the call back call the virtual queuing system bridges the call center agent and the customer in block . In some embodiments as discussed above with regard to method the virtual queuing system may playa pre recorded audio introduction that is customized for a particular call center prior to connecting the customer to the call center agent. Additionally the customer may reengage the virtual queue at any time during the call back call. For example if the customer is put on hold of an extended period of time the customer may opt to receive another call back when the agent has completed whatever task has the agent occupied at that time. Further in some embodiments the virtual queuing system may provide for dropped call callbacks. For example if the customer s signal goes bad or suddenly drops the call center agent may select a predefined key or sequence of keys to automatically redial the customer.

Referring now to in some embodiments the customer s call is wrapped by the virtual queuing system in response to the customer s call being redirected to the virtual queuing system by a telecommunications carrier system. That is although the customer may call the direct number of the call center the customer s call may be re routed to the virtual queuing system in response to predefined criteria e.g. the volume of calls received by the call center within a given time period the magnitude of the estimated wait time and or the like . In such embodiments as shown in the telecommunications system may include a telecommunications carrier system . The telecommunications carrier system may be embodied as any type of telecommunications carrier system for facilitating and managing calls between the customer communication device and the call center . For example the telecommunication carrier system may be embodied as a cellular carrier system a land based carrier system or a data network communication system. Additionally the telecommunication carrier system may form a portion of the network in some embodiments. The illustrative telecommunication carrier system includes a company customer service phone number . Calls received on the service phone number may be typically routed to the standard DNIS of the call center . However under certain circumstances e.g. large volume of calls high estimated wait time etc. the telecommunication carrier system may redirect calls from the call center to the virtual queuing system . The virtual queuing system may subsequently provide virtual queuing services to the customer as discussed previously.

As shown in the virtual queuing system may execute a method for providing virtual queuing in the embodiment of . The method begins with block in which the virtual queuing system determines whether a redirected customer call is received from the telecommunications carrier system . As discussed above the telecommunication carrier system may redirect calls from the call center to the virtual queuing system under certain conditions such as a large volume of incoming calls to the call center a high estimated wait time EWT and or other criteria. If a redirected call is received by the virtual queuing system the virtual queuing system subsequently connects the customer call to the call center in block . To do so the customer s call may be placed in the main queue of the call center and answered by an agent of the call center in the order of the main queue . However because the customer call has been wrapped by the virtual queuing system the customer may opt to receive a callback at any time e.g. by selecting a predefined key or sequence of keys . As such if the customer waits in the main queue for some time the customer may decide to receive a callback rather than continue waiting in the main queue .

If the customer does request to receive a callback in block the method advances to block in the virtual queuing system receives or otherwise retrieves customer information. As discussed above in regard to method of such customer information may include for example the customer s name preferred callback phone number desired callback time customer ID order ID customer record number summary of the customer s question product information related to the customer s question or issue and or other information related to the customer s call.

After the customer information is received or retrieved in block the virtual queuing system disconnects from the customer and maintains the customer s call in the virtual queue in block . Subsequently in block the virtual queuing system waits for an agent of the call center to be available to accept the customer s call. Once an agent of the call center becomes available the virtual queuing system calls the customer back at the provided call back number in block . As discussed above with regard to method of the virtual queuing system may reattempt the call a predetermined number of times if the customer is not available and or leave a pre recorded voicemail message if a customer s voicemail is received.

If the customer is determined to be available in block i.e. the customer answers the call back call the virtual queuing system bridges the call center agent and the customer in block . In some embodiments as discussed above with regard to method the virtual queuing system may playa pre recorded audio introduction that is customized for a particular call center prior to connecting the customer to the call center agent. Additionally the customer may reengage the virtual queue at any time during the call back call. For example if the customer is put on hold of an extended period of time the customer may opt to receive another call back when the agent has completed whatever task has the agent occupied at that time. Further in some embodiments the virtual queuing system may provide for dropped call callbacks. For example if the customer s signal goes bad or suddenly drops the call center agent may select a predefined key or sequence of keys to automatically redial the customer.

Referring now to in some embodiments the call center may redirect received calls from the telecommunications carrier system to the virtual queuing system automatically i.e. for every call or in response to predefined criteria e.g. the volume of calls received by the call center within a given time period the magnitude of the estimated wait time and or the like . In such embodiments the call center receives calls from the telecommunication scarier system via the standard DNIS and redirects the calls to the virtual queuing system at an automatic call distributor ACD or an interactive voice response IVR level . The virtual queuing system may subsequently provide virtual queuing services to the customer as discussed previously.

As shown in the virtual queuing system may execute a method for providing virtual queuing in the embodiment of . The method begins with block in which the virtual queuing system determines whether a redirected customer call is received from the call center . As discussed above the call center may redirect calls received from the telecommunications carrier system to the virtual queuing system automatically or in response to certain conditions such as a large volume of incoming calls to the call center a high estimated wait time EWT and or other criteria. If a redirected call is received by the virtual queuing system the virtual queuing system subsequently connects the customer call to the call center in block . To do so the customer s call may be placed in the main queue of the call center and answered by an agent of the call center in the order of the main queue . However because the customer call has been wrapped by the virtual queuing system the customer may opt to receive a callback at any time e.g. by selecting a predefined key or sequence of keys . As such if the customer waits in the main queue for some time the customer may decide to receive a callback rather than continue waiting in the main queue .

If the customer does request to receive a callback in block the method advances to block in the virtual queuing system receives or otherwise retrieves customer information. As discussed above in regard to method of such customer information may include for example the customer s name preferred callback phone number desired callback time customer ID order ID customer record number summary of the customer s question product information related to the customer s question or issue and or other information related to the customer s call.

After the customer information is received or retrieved in block the virtual queuing system disconnects from the customer and maintains the customer s call in the virtual queue in block . Subsequently in block the virtual queuing system waits for an agent of the call center to be available to accept the customer s call. Once an agent of the call center becomes available the virtual queuing system calls the customer back at the provided call back number in block . As discussed above with regard to method of the virtual queuing system may reattempt the call a predetermined number of times if the customer is not available and or leave a pre recorded voicemail message if a customer s voicemail is received.

If the customer is determined to be available in block i.e. the customer answers the call back call the virtual queuing system bridges the call center agent and the customer in block . In some embodiments as discussed above with regard to method the virtual queuing system may playa pre recorded audio introduction that is customized for a particular call center prior to connecting the customer to the call center agent. Additionally the customer may reengage the virtual queue at any time during the call back call. For example if the customer is put on hold of an extended period of time the customer may opt to receive another call back when the agent has completed whatever task has the agent occupied at that time. Further in some embodiments the virtual queuing system may provide for dropped call callbacks. For example if the customer s signal goes bad or suddenly drops the call center agent may select a predefined key or sequence of keys to automatically redial the customer.

Referring now to in some embodiments the call center may initially receive the customer s direct call and provide the option of virtual queuing during such call e.g. prior to queuing or at the start of the queue . If a customer selects virtual queuing the call center may transfer the call to the virtual queuing system . To do so the call center may transfer the call to a pre designed phone number or direct inward dial DID number maintained by the virtual queuing system or via use of another API provided by the virtual queuing system . The virtual queuing system may subsequently provide virtual queuing services to the customer as discussed below.

As shown in the virtual queuing system may execute a method for providing virtual queuing in the embodiment of . The method begins with block in which the virtual queuing system determines whether a transferred customer call is received from the call center . As discussed above the call center may transfer customer calls in response to the customer selecting the virtual queuing service e.g. the customer may select a predefined key or sequence of keys . If a transferred call is received by the virtual queuing system the virtual queuing system subsequently receives or otherwise retrieves customer information in block . As discussed above in regard to method of such customer information may include for example the customer s name preferred callback phone number desired callback time customer ID order ID customer record number summary of the customer s question product information related to the customer s question or issue and or other information related to the customer s call.

After the customer information is received or retrieved in block the virtual queuing system disconnects from the customer and maintains the customer s call in the virtual queue in block . Subsequently in block the virtual queuing system meters the customer s call back call as a function of various criteria such as the estimated wait time at the call center a patience factor or other variable as discussed above with regard to method of . After expiration of the metered wait time the virtual queuing system calls the customer back at the provided call back number in block . Again the virtual queuing system may reattempt the call a predetermined number of times if the customer is not available and or leave a pre recorded voicemail message if a customer s voicemail is received.

If however the customer is reached in block the virtual queuing system places a call into the call center in block . To do so the virtual queuing system may place the call into the alternate DNIS of the call center . In some embodiments the virtual queuing system may submit the customer information to the call center in block .

If the call center agent is determined to be available in block the virtual queuing system bridges the customer and the call center agent in block . As discussed above the virtual queuing system may play a pre recorded audio introduction that is customized for a particular call center prior to connecting the customer to the call center agent. Additionally the customer may reengage the virtual queue at any time during the call back call. Further the agent may automatically reengage the call by selecting a predefined key or sequence of keys should the call be dropped.

While the disclosure has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description such an illustration and description is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications consistent with the disclosure and recited claims are desired to be protected.

