---

title: Methods and compositions for inhibiting CNKSR1
abstract: Embodiments include compositions and methods of inhibiting CNKSR1 and methods of identifying inhibitors of CNKSR1.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09340532&OS=09340532&RS=09340532
owner: Phusis Therapeutics, Inc.
number: 09340532
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131216
---
This application is a national phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT CN2013 075505 filed Dec. 16 2013 and entitled METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR INHIBITING CNKSR1 that claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 737 658 filed Dec. 14 2012 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 737 658 entitled Methods and Compositions for Inhibiting CNKSR1 filed on Dec. 14 2013.

The United States government may have certain rights to this invention pursuant to State of Texas CPRIT High Impact Grant KRAS the elephant in the room of cancer chemotherapy Number RP100686.

Single point mutations of at least one of the RAS genes KRAS HRAS and NRAS are found in many human cancers particularly in colon lung and pancreatic cancer. RAS mutations are most commonly found in KRAS about 85 less commonly in NRAS about 12 and rarely in HRAS about 3 . KRAS encodes two splice variants A and B with divergent C terminal sequences due to the alternate utilization of exon 4. Mutant KRAS mut KRAS may be present in up to about 25 of all human tumors. Mut KRAS may play a critical role in driving tumor growth and resistance to therapy. An agent with even a modest effect on mut KRAS activity or one that exhibits selective inhibition of a subset of mut RAS could have a major impact on therapy and decrease cancer patient suffering and morbidity. Thus finding new agents that inhibit the growth of mut KRAS tumors is desirable.

Embodiments are directed to small molecule drugs that may inhibit CNKSR1 through PH domain binding and may selectively block the growth of mut KRAS cancer cells without affecting wt KRAS cells. In embodiments inhibiting the CNKSR1 gene may block the growth of mut KRAS cancer cells without affecting wt KRAS cancer cell growth. In embodiments CNKSR1 has a PH domain that may be critical for allowing mut KRAS to signal tumor growth. In embodiments iterative molecular modeling and the SPR binding approach may be used to identify PH domain inhibitors.

Ris C Calkyl OH C Calkenyl OH C Calkykl C O C Calkyl C Calkenyl C O C Calkyl C Calkykl C O C Ccycloalkyl C Calkenyl C O C Ccycloalkyl 

Methods of treating cancer and or inhibiting CNKSR1 comprising administering an effective amount of the above described compounds or pharmaceutical compositions containing them are also disclosed.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods devices and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a cell is a reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

 Administering when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to administer a therapeutic directly into or onto a target tissue or to administer a therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is targeted. Thus as used herein the term administering when used in conjunction with a compound can include but is not limited to providing a compound into or onto the target tissue and or providing a compound systemically to a patient by e.g. intravenous injection or oral administration whereby the therapeutic reaches the target tissue.

The term animal as used herein includes but is not limited to humans and non human vertebrates such as wild domestic and farm animals.

The term inhibiting includes the administration of a compound of the present invention to prevent the onset of the symptoms alleviating the symptoms or eliminating the disease condition or disorder.

By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition or disease of a patient. In part embodiments of the present invention are directed to the treatment of cancer or the decrease in proliferation of cells.

A therapeutically effective amount or effective amount of a composition is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to inhibit block or reverse the activation migration or proliferation of cells. The activity contemplated by the present methods includes both medical therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment as appropriate. The specific dose of a compound administered according to this invention to obtain therapeutic and or prophylactic effects will of course be determined by the particular circumstances surrounding the case including for example the compound administered the route of administration and the condition being treated. The compounds are effective over a wide dosage range and for example dosages per day will normally fall within the range of from 0.001 to 10 mg kg more usually in the range of from 0.01 to 1 mg kg. However it will be understood that the effective amount administered will be determined by the physician in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the choice of compound to be administered and the chosen route of administration and therefore the above dosage ranges are not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. A therapeutically effective amount of compound of this invention is typically an amount such that when it is administered in a physiologically tolerable excipient composition it is sufficient to achieve an effective systemic concentration or local concentration in the tissue.

The terms treat treated or treating as used herein refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological condition disorder or disease or to obtain beneficial or desired clinical results. For the purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of the extent of the condition disorder or disease stabilization i.e. not worsening of the state of the condition disorder or disease delay in onset or slowing of the progression of the condition disorder or disease amelioration of the condition disorder or disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable or enhancement or improvement of the condition disorder or disease. Treatment includes eliciting a clinically significant response without excessive levels of side effects. Treatment also includes prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.

Single point mutations of at least one of the RAS genes KRAS HRAS and NRAS are found in many human cancers particularly in colon lung and pancreatic cancer. RAS mutations are most commonly found in KRAS about 85 less commonly in NRAS about 12 and rarely in HRAS about 3 . KRAS encodes two splice variants A and B with divergent C terminal sequences due to the alternate utilization of exon 4. Mutant KRAS mut KRAS may be present in up to about 25 of all human tumors. Mut KRAS may play a critical role in driving tumor growth and resistance to therapy. An agent with even a modest effect on mut KRAS activity or one that exhibits selective inhibition of a subset of mut RAS could have a major impact on therapy and decrease cancer patient suffering and morbidity. Thus finding new agents that inhibit the growth of mut KRAS tumors is arguably the most important unmet need in cancer therapy today.

Early attempts to develop GTP competitive antagonists to RAS protein analogous to ATP competitive antagonists of protein tyrosine kinases were found to be impractical because of the picomolar binding of GTP to RAS. The next approach and one that gained considerable traction was to prevent the membrane binding of RAS by blocking RAS farnesylation using cell permeable CAAX peptidomimetics or small molecule farnesyl transferases FT inhibitors. Several potent agents were developed that showed dramatic activity in HRAS cell lines and mouse tumor models. However it was found that the activity was limited to oncogenic HRAS which is found in only a small portion of human tumors and that oncogenic NRAS and KRAS were resistant to FT inhibition because of alternative geranylgeranylation. Other efforts to develop antisense or siRNA inhibitors of KRAS or inhibitors of Rce1 and Icmt responsible for CAAX signal processing have so far not provided effective KRAS antitumor agents. The currently favored approach is to block downstream signaling targets activated by KRAS such as PI 3 K RAF and mitogen activated protein kinase kinase MEK and several clinical trials underway with combinations of these inhibitors. However a limitation of the approach may be that different mut KRAS amino acid substitutions engage different downstream signaling effectors and it may be necessary to have a number inhibitors available for each of the pathways. It may be preferable to have an inhibitor that works with all forms of mut KRAS and the approach we have adopted is to identify genes that are activators of mut KRAS activity to provide molecular targets for the development of selective mut KRAS inhibitors.

Following the strategy to identify genes that positively regulate mut KRAS activity CNKSR1 connector enhancer of kinase suppressor of RAS 1 has been identified. The CNKSR1 protein is associated with KRAS in the membrane signaling nanocluster and knockdown of CNKSR1 may cause inhibition of mut KRAS tumor cell growth and signaling without inhibition of wt KRAS cell growth. Furthermore CNKSR1 has a potentially druggable pleckstrin homology PH domain.

In some embodiments R is C Ccylcloalkyl. In some embodiments C Ccycloalkyl is cyclopropyl. In some embodiments C Ccycloalkyl is cyclobutyl.

One preferred embodiment has Rselected from a hydroxyl and an optionally substituted ether Ras a substituted alkyl chains with 1 to 3 carbon atoms and Ras 4 p tolylthiazol 2 yl.

Embodiments are directed toward pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In such embodiments the compounds of formula I are present in a therapeutically effective amount.

Embodiments are directed toward methods of treating cancer comprising administering an effective amount of compounds of formula I.

Embodiments are directed toward methods of inhibiting CNKSR1 comprising administering an effective amount of compounds of formula I.

Embodiments are directed toward methods of treating cancer comprising administering an effective amount of compounds selected from 1 12 

Embodiments are directed toward methods of inhibiting CNKSR1 comprising administering an effective amount of compounds selected from 1 12 

Embodiments are directed toward methods of inhibiting CNKSR1 comprising administering an effective amount of compounds selected from

In embodiments the treatment of cancer or the inhibition of CNKSR1 does not inhibit wild type KRAS cancer cell growth

In embodiments the treatment of cancer or the inhibition of CNKSR1 may further comprising administering an anti cancer agent radiation phototherapy or a combination thereof. Anti cancer agents may be selected from alkylating agents antimetabolites anthracyclines plant alkaloids topoisomerase inhibitors monoclonal antibodies tyrosine kinase inhibitors and hormone treatment.

Embodiments are directed toward methods of identifying compounds that inhibit the activity of CNKSR1 comprising contacting CNKSR1 with a test compound determining the activity of CNKSR1 in the presence of the test compound and identifying the test compound as a compound that inhibits the activity of CNKSR1 if the activity of CNKSR1 is decreased in the presence of the test compound. Such embodiments may further comprise determining the activity of CNKSR1 in the absence of the test compound. Identifying the test compound as a compound that inhibits the activity of CNKSR1 may further comprise comparing the activity of CNKSR1 in the presence and the absence of the test compound wherein the compound is identified as a compound that inhibits the activity of CNKSR1 if the activity of CNKSR1 is decreased in the presence of the test compound as compared to the activity of CNKSR1 in the absence of the test compound.

In embodiments of the invention cancer may include but is not limited to adrenocortical carcinoma anal cancer bladder cancer brain tumor breast cancer carcinoid tumor gastrointestinal carcinoma of unknown primary cervical cancer colon cancer endometrial cancer esophageal cancer extrahepatic bile duct cancer Ewings family of tumors PNET extracranial germ cell tumor eye cancer intraocular melanoma gallbladder cancer gastric cancer stomach germ cell tumor extragonadal gestational trophoblastic tumor head and neck cancer hypopharyngeal cancer islet cell carcinoma kidney cancer laryngeal cancer leukemia acute lymphoblastic adult leukemia acute lymphoblastic childhood leukemia lip and oral cavity cancer liver cancer lung cancer lymphoma aids related lymphoma central nervous system primary lymphoma cutaneous T cell lymphoma hodgkin s disease adult lymphoma hodgkin s disease childhood lymphoma non hodgkin s disease adult lymphoma non hodgkin s disease childhood malignant mesothelioma melanoma merkel cell carcinoma metasatic squamous neck cancer with occult primary multiple myeloma and other plasma cell neoplasms mycosis fungoides myelodysplastic syndrome myeloproliferative disorders nasopharyngeal cancer neuroblastoma oral cancer oropharyngeal cancer osteosarcoma ovarian epithelial cancer ovarian germ cell tumor pancreatic cancer exocrine pancreatic cancer islet cell carcinoma paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer parathyroid cancer penile cancer pituitary cancer plasma cell neoplasm prostate cancer rhabdomyosarcoma childhood rectal cancer renal cell cancer renal pelvis and ureter transitional cell salivary gland cancer sezary syndrome skin cancer skin cancer cutaneous T cell lymphoma skin cancer kaposi s sarcoma skin cancer melanoma small intestine cancer soft tissue sarcoma adult soft tissue sarcoma child stomach cancer testicular cancer thymoma malignant thyroid cancer urethral cancer uterine cancer sarcoma unusual cancer of childhood vaginal cancer vulvar cancer Wilms Tumor and combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the cancer is selected from colon lung pancreas or combinations thereof.

For example in some aspects the invention is directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as defined above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent or an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound as defined above.

The compounds of the present invention can be administered in the conventional manner by any route where they are active. Administration can be systemic topical or oral. For example administration can be but is not limited to parenteral subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal transdermal oral buccal or ocular routes or intravaginally by inhalation by depot injections or by implants. Thus modes of administration for the compounds of the present invention either alone or in combination with other pharmaceuticals can be but are not limited to sublingual injectable including short acting depot implant and pellet forms injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by use of vaginal creams suppositories pessaries vaginal rings rectal suppositories intrauterine devices and transdermal forms such as patches and creams.

Specific modes of administration will depend on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen is to be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. The amount of compound to be administered is that amount which is therapeutically effective. The dosage to be administered will depend on the characteristics of the subject being treated e.g. the particular animal treated age weight health types of concurrent treatment if any and frequency of treatments and can be easily determined by one of skill in the art e.g. by the clinician .

Pharmaceutical formulations containing the compounds of the present invention and a suitable carrier can be solid dosage forms which include but are not limited to tablets capsules cachets pellets pills powders and granules topical dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions powders fluid emulsions fluid suspensions semi solids ointments pastes creams gels and jellies and foams and parenteral dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions suspensions emulsions and dry powder comprising an effective amount of a polymer or copolymer of the present invention. It is also known in the art that the active ingredients can be contained in such formulations with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents fillers disintegrants binders lubricants surfactants hydrophobic vehicles water soluble vehicles emulsifiers buffers humectants moisturizers solubilizers preservatives and the like. The means and methods for administration are known in the art and an artisan can refer to various pharmacologic references for guidance. For example Banker Rhodes Marcel Dekker Inc. 1979 and 6th Edition MacMillan Publishing Co. New York 1980 can be consulted.

The compounds of the present invention can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. The compounds can be administered by continuous infusion subcutaneously over a period of about 15 minutes to about 24 hours. Formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

For oral administration the compounds can be formulated readily by combining these compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the compounds of the invention to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by adding a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include but are not limited to fillers such as sugars including but not limited to lactose sucrose mannitol and sorbitol cellulose preparations such as but not limited to maize starch wheat starch rice starch potato starch gelatin gum tragacanth methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP . If desired disintegrating agents can be added such as but not limited to the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.

Dragee cores can be provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose concentrated sugar solutions can be used which can optionally contain gum arabic talc polyvinyl pyrrolidone carbopol gel polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments can be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active compound doses.

Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally include but are not limited to push fit capsules made of gelatin as well as soft sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as e.g. lactose binders such as e.g. starches and or lubricants such as e.g. talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active compounds can be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids such as fatty oils liquid paraffin or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition stabilizers can be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such administration.

For buccal administration the compositions can take the form of e.g. tablets or lozenges formulated in a conventional manner.

For administration by inhalation the compounds for use according to the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit can be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator can be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

The compounds of the present invention can also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides.

In addition to the formulations described previously the compounds of the present invention can also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection.

Depot injections can be administered at about 1 to about 6 months or longer intervals. Thus for example the compounds can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

In transdermal administration the compounds of the present invention for example can be applied to a plaster or can be applied by transdermal therapeutic systems that are consequently supplied to the organism.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the compounds also can comprise suitable solid or gel phase carriers or excipients. Examples of such carriers or excipients include but are not limited to calcium carbonate calcium phosphate various sugars starches cellulose derivatives gelatin and polymers such as e.g. polyethylene glycols.

The compounds of the present invention can also be administered in combination with other active ingredients such as for example adjuvants protease inhibitors or other compatible drugs or compounds where such combination is seen to be desirable or advantageous in achieving the desired effects of the methods described herein.

In some embodiments the disintegrant component comprises one or more of croscarmellose sodium carmellose calcium crospovidone alginic acid sodium alginate potassium alginate calcium alginate an ion exchange resin an effervescent system based on food acids and an alkaline carbonate component clay talc starch pregelatinized starch sodium starch glycolate cellulose floc carboxymethylcellulose hydroxypropylcellulose calcium silicate a metal carbonate sodium bicarbonate calcium citrate or calcium phosphate.

In some embodiments the diluent component comprises one or more of mannitol lactose sucrose maltodextrin sorbitol xylitol powdered cellulose microcrystalline cellulose carboxymethylcellulose carboxyethylcellulose methylcellulose ethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose methylhydroxyethylcellulose starch sodium starch glycolate pregelatinized starch a calcium phosphate a metal carbonate a metal oxide or a metal aluminosilicate.

In some embodiments the optional lubricant component when present comprises one or more of stearic acid metallic stearate sodium stearyl fumarate fatty acid fatty alcohol fatty acid ester glyceryl behenate mineral oil vegetable oil paraffin leucine silica silicic acid talc propylene glycol fatty acid ester polyethoxylated castor oil polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol polyalkylene glycol polyoxyethylene glycerol fatty ester polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ether polyethoxylated sterol polyethoxylated castor oil polyethoxylated vegetable oil or sodium chloride.

As used herein the term alginic acid refers to a naturally occurring hydrophilic colloidal polysaccharide obtained from the various species of seaweed or synthetically modified polysaccharides thereof.

As used herein the term sodium alginate refers to a sodium salt of alginic acid and can be formed by reaction of alginic acid with a sodium containing base such as sodium hydroxide or sodium carbonate. As used herein the term potassium alginate refers to a potassium salt of alginic acid and can be formed by reaction of alginic acid with a potassium containing base such as potassium hydroxide or potassium carbonate. As used herein the term calcium alginate refers to a calcium salt of alginic acid and can be formed by reaction of alginic acid with a calcium containing base such as calcium hydroxide or calcium carbonate. Suitable sodium alginates calcium alginates and potassium alginates include but are not limited to those described in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky Handbook of pharmaceutical excipients 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Suitable sodium alginates include but are not limited to Kelcosol available from ISP Kelfone LVCR and HVCR available from ISP Manucol available from ISP and Protanol available from FMC Biopolymer .

As used herein the term calcium phosphate refers to monobasic calcium phosophate dibasic calcium phosphate or tribasic calcium phosphate.

Cellulose cellulose floc powdered cellulose microcrystalline cellulose silicified microcrystalline cellulose carboxyethylcellulose carboxymethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose methylhydroxyethylcellulose hydroxymethylcellulose hydroxypropylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate ethylcellulose methylcellulose carboxymethylcellulose sodium and carboxymethyl cellulose calcium include but are not limited to those described in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky Handbook of pharmaceutical excipients 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As used herein cellulose refers to natural cellulose. The term cellulose also refers to celluloses that have been modified with regard to molecular weight and or branching particularly to lower molecular weight. The term cellulose further refers to celluloses that have been chemically modified to attach chemical functionality such as carboxy hydroxyl hydroxyalkylene or carboxyalkylene groups. As used herein the term carboxyalkylene refers to a group of formula alkylene C O OH or salt thereof. As used herein the term hydroxyalkylene refers to a group of formula alkylene OH.

Suitable powdered celluloses for use in the invention include but are not limited to Arbocel available from JRS Pharma Sanacel available from CFF GmbH and Solka Floc available from International Fiber Corp. .

Suitable microcrystalline celluloses include but are not limited to the Avicel pH series available from FMC Biopolymer Celex available from ISP Celphere available from Asahi Kasei Ceolus KG available from Asahi Kasei and Vivapur available from JRS Pharma .

As used herein the term silicified microcrystalline cellulose refers to a synergistic intimate physical mixture of silicon dioxide and microcrystalline cellulose. Suitable silicified microcrystalline celluloses include but are not limited to ProSolv available from JRS Pharma .

As used herein the term carboxymethylcellulose sodium refers to a cellulose ether with pendant groups of formula Na attached to the cellulose via an ether linkage. Suitable carboxymethylcellulose sodium polymers include but are not limited to Akucell available from Akzo Nobel Aquasorb available from Hercules Blanose available from Hercules Finnfix available from Noviant Nymel available from Noviant and Tylose CB available from Clariant .

As used herein the term carboxymethylcellulose calcium refers to a cellulose ether with a pendant groups of formula CH O C O O Ca attached to the cellulose via an ether linkage.

As used herein the term carboxymethylcellulose refers to a cellulose ether with pendant carboxymethyl groups of formula HO C O CH attached to the cellulose via an ether linkage. Suitable carboxymethylcellulose calcium polymers include but are not limited to Nymel ZSC available from Noviant .

As used herein the term carboxyethylcellulose refers to a cellulose ether with pendant carboxymethyl groups of formula HO C O CH CH attached to the cellulose via an ether linkage.

As used herein the term hydroxyethylcellulose refers to a cellulose ether with pendant hydroxyethyl groups of formula HO CH CH attached to the cellulose via an ether linkage. Suitable hydroxyethylcelluloses include but are not limited to Cellosize HEC available from DOW Natrosol available from Hercules and Tylose PHA available from Clariant .

As used herein the term methylhydroxyethylcellulose refers to a cellulose ether with pendant methyloxyethyl groups of formula CH O CH CH attached to the cellulose via an ether linkage. Suitable methylhydroxyethylcelluloses include but are not limited to the Culminal MHEC series available from Hercules and the Tylose series available from Shin Etsu .

As used herein the term hydroxypropylcellulose or hypomellose refers a cellulose that has pendant hydroxypropoxy groups and includes both high and low substituted hydroxypropylcellulose. In some embodiments the hydroxypropylcellulose has about 5 to about 25 hydroxypropyl groups. Suitable hydroxypropylcelluloses include but are not limited to the Klucel series available from Hercules the Methocel series available from Dow the Nisso HPC series available from Nisso the Metolose series available from Shin Etsu and the LH series including LHR 11 LH 21 LH 31 LH 20 LH 30 LH 22 and LH 32 available from Shin Etsu .

As used herein the term methyl cellulose refers to a cellulose that has pendant methoxy groups. Suitable methyl celluloses include but are not limited to Culminal MC available from Hercules .

As used herein the term ethyl cellulose refers to a cellulose that has pendant ethoxy groups. Suitable ethyl celluloses include but are not limited to Aqualon available from Hercules .

As used herein the term carmellose calcium refers to a crosslinked polymer of carboxymethylcellulose calcium.

As used herein the term croscarmellose sodium refers to a crosslinked polymer of carboxymethylcellulose sodium.

As used herein the term crospovidone refers to a crosslinked polymer of polyvinylpyrrolidone. Suitable crospovidone polymers include but are not limited to Polyplasdone XL 10 available from ISP and Kollidon CL and CL M available from BASF .

As used herein the term crosslinked poly acrylic acid refers to a polymer of acrylic acid which has been crosslinked. The crosslinked polymer may contain other monomers in addition to acrylic acid. Additionally the pendant carboxy groups on the crosslinked polymer may be partially or completely neutralized to form a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the polymer. In some embodiments the crosslinked poly acrylic acid is neutralized by ammonia or sodium hydroxide. Suitable crosslinked poly acrylic acid polymers include but are not limited to the Carbopol series available from Noveon .

As used herein the term an effervescent system based on food acids and an alkaline carbonate component refers to a excipient combination of food acids and alkaline carbonates that releases carbon dioxide gas when administered. Suitable effervescent systems are those that those utilizing food acids such as citric acid tartaric acid malic acid fumaric acid lactic acid adipic acid ascorbic acid aspartic acid erythorbic acid glutamic acid and succinic acid and an alkaline carbonate component such as sodium bicarbonate calcium carbonate magnesium carbonate potassium carbonate ammonium carbonate etc. .

As used herein the term fatty acid employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to an aliphatic acid that is saturated or unsaturated. In some embodiments the fatty acid in a mixture of different fatty acids. In some embodiments the fatty acid has between about eight to about thirty carbons on average. In some embodiments the fatty acid has about eight to about twenty four carbons on average. In some embodiments the fatty acid has about twelve to about eighteen carbons on average. Suitable fatty acids include but are not limited to stearic acid lauric acid myristic acid erucic acid palmitic acid palmitoleic acid capric acid caprylic acid oleic acid linoleic acid linolenic acid hydroxystearic acid 12 hydroxystearic acid cetostearic acid isostearic acid sesquioleic acid sesqui 9 octadecanoic acid sesquiisooctadecanoic acid benhenic acid isobehenic acid and arachidonic acid or mixtures thereof.

As used herein the term fatty acid ester refers to a compound formed between a fatty acid and a hydroxyl containing compound. In some embodiments the fatty acid ester is a sugar ester of fatty acid. In some embodiments the fatty acid ester is a glyceride of fatty acid. In some embodiments the fatty acid ester is an ethoxylated fatty acid ester.

As used herein the term fatty alcohol employed alone or in combination with other terms refers to an aliphatic alcohol that is saturated or unsaturated. In some embodiments the fatty alcohol in a mixture of different fatty alcohols. In some embodiments the fatty alcohol has between about eight to about thirty carbons on average. In some embodiments the fatty alcohol has about eight to about twenty four carbons on average. In some embodiments the fatty alcohol has about twelve to about eighteen carbons on average. Suitable fatty alcohols include but are not limited to stearyl alcohol lauryl alcohol palmityl alcohol palmitolyl acid cetyl alcohol capryl alcohol caprylyl alcohol oleyl alcohol linolenyl alcohol arachidonic alcohol behenyl alcohol isobehenyl alcohol selachyl alcohol chimyl alcohol and linoleyl alcohol or mixtures thereof.

As used herein the term ion exchange resin refers to an ion exchange resin that is pharmaceutically acceptable and that can be weakly acidic weakly basic strongly acidic or strongly basic. Suitable ion exchange resins include but are not limited to Amberlite IRP64 IRP88 and IRP69 available from Rohm and Haas and Duolite AP143 available from Rohm and Haas . In some embodiments the ion exchange resin is a crosslinked polymer resin comprising acrylic acid methacrylic acid or polystyrene sulfonate or salts thereof. In some embodiments the ion exchange resin is polacrilex resin polacrilin potassium resin or cholestyramine resin.

Suitable mannitols include but are not limited to PharmMannidex available from Cargill Pearlitol available from Roquette and Mannogem available from SPI Polyols .

As used herein the term metal aluminosilicate refers to any metal salt of an aluminosilicate including but not limited to magnesium aluminometasilicate. Suitable magnesium aluminosilicates include but are not limited to Neusilin available from Fuji Chemical Pharmsorb available from Engelhard and Veegum available from R.T. Vanderbilt Co. Inc. . In some embodiments the metal aluminosilicate is bentonite.

As used herein the term metal carbonate refers to any metallic carbonate including but not limited to sodium carbonate calcium carbonate and magnesium carbonate and zinc carbonate.

As used herein the term metal oxide refers to any metallic oxide including but not limited to calcium oxide or magnesium oxide.

As used herein the term metallic stearate refers to a metal salt of stearic acid. In some embodiments the metallic stearate is calcium stearate zinc stearate or magnesium stearate. In some embodiments the metallic stearate is magnesium stearate.

As used herein the term mineral oil refers to both unrefined and refined light mineral oil. Suitable mineral oils include but are not limited to the Avatech grades available from Avatar Corp. Drakeol grades available from Penreco Sirius grades available from Shell and the Citation grades available from Avater Corp. .

As used herein the term polyethoxylated castor oil refers to a compound formed from the ethoxylation of castor oil wherein at least one chain of polyethylene glycol is covalently bound to the castor oil. The castor oil may be hydrogenated or unhydrogenated. Synonyms for polyethoxylated castor oil include but are not limited to polyoxyl castor oil hydrogenated polyoxyl castor oil mcrogolglyceroli ricinoleas macrogolglyceroli hydroxystearas polyoxyl 35 castor oil and polyoxyl 40 hydrogenated castor oil. Suitable polyethoxylated castor oils include but are not limited to the Nikkol HCO series available from Nikko Chemicals Co. Ltd. such as Nikkol HCO 30 HC 40 HC 50 and HC 60 polyethylene glycol 30 hydrogenated castor oil polyethylene glycol 40 hydrogenated castor oil polyethylene glycol 50 hydrogenated castor oil and polyethylene glycol 60 hydrogenated castor oil Emulphor EL 719 castor oil 40 mole ethoxylate available from Stepan Products the Cremophore series available from BASF which includes Cremophore RH40 RH60 and EL35 polyethylene glycol 40 hydrogenated castor oil polyethylene glycol 60 hydrogenated castor oil and polyethylene glycol 35 hydrogenated castor oil respectively and the Emulgin RO and HRE series available from Cognis PharmaLine . Other suitable polyoxyethylene castor oil derivatives include those listed in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky Handbook of pharmaceutical excipients 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As used herein the term polyethoxylated sterol refers to a compound or mixture of compounds derived from the ethoxylation of sterol molecule. Suitable polyethoyxlated sterols include but are not limited to PEG 24 cholesterol ether Solulan C 24 available from Amerchol PEG 30 cholestanol Nikkol DHC available from Nikko Phytosterol GENEROL series available from Henkel PEG 25 phyto sterol Nikkol BPSH 25 available from Nikko PEG 5 soya sterol Nikkol BPS 5 available from Nikko PEG 10 soya sterol Nikkol BPS 10 available from Nikko PEG 20 soya sterol Nikkol BPS 20 available from Nikko and PEG 30 soya sterol Nikkol BPS 30 available from Nikko . As used herein the term PEG refers to polyethylene glycol.

As used herein the term polyethoxylated vegetable oil refers to a compound or mixture of compounds formed from ethoxylation of vegetable oil wherein at least one chain of polyethylene glycol is covalently bound to the the vegetable oil. In some embodiments the fatty acids has between about twelve carbons to about eighteen carbons. In some embodiments the amount of ethoxylation can vary from about 2 to about 200 about 5 to 100 about 10 to about 80 about 20 to about 60 or about 12 to about 18 of ethylene glycol repeat units. The vegetable oil may be hydrogenated or unhydrogenated. Suitable polyethoxylated vegetable oils include but are not limited to Cremaphor EL or RH series available from BASF Emulphor EL 719 available from Stepan products and Emulphor EL 620P available from GAF .

As used herein the term polyethylene glycol refers to a polymer containing ethylene glycol monomer units of formula O CH CH . Suitable polyethylene glycols may have a free hydroxyl group at each end of the polymer molecule or may have one or more hydroxyl groups etherified with a lower alkyl e.g. a methyl group. Also suitable are derivatives of polyethylene glycols having esterifiable carboxy groups. Polyethylene glycols useful in the present invention can be polymers of any chain length or molecular weight and can include branching. In some embodiments the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is from about 200 to about 9000. In some embodiments the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is from about 200 to about 5000. In some embodiments the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is from about 200 to about 900. In some embodiments the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is about 400. Suitable polyethylene glycols include but are not limited to polyethylene glycol 200 polyethylene glycol 300 polyethylene glycol 400 polyethylene glycol 600 and polyethylene glycol 900. The number following the dash in the name refers to the average molecular weight of the polymer. In some embodiments the polyethylene glycol is polyethylene glycol 400. Suitable polyethylene glycols include but are not limited to the Carbowax and Carbowax Sentry series available from Dow the Lipoxol series available from Brenntag the Lutrol series available from BASF and the Pluriol series available from BASF .

As used herein the term polyoxyethylene alkyl ether refers to a monoalkyl or dialkylether of polyoxyethylene or mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene alkyl ether is a polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ether.

As used herein the term polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ether refers to an monoether or diether or mixtures thereof formed between polyethylene glycol and a fatty alcohol. Fatty alcohols that are useful for deriving polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ethers include but are not limited to those defined herein. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene portion of the molecule has about 2 to about 200 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene portion of the molecule has about 2 to about 100 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene portion of the molecule has about 4 to about 50 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene portion of the molecule has about 4 to about 30 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ether comprises ethoxylated stearyl alcohols cetyl alcohols and cetylstearyl alcohols cetearyl alcohols . Suitable polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ethers include but are not limited to the Brij series of surfactants available from Uniqema which includes Brij 30 35 52 56 58 72 76 78 93Veg 97 98 and 721 the Cremophor A series available from BASF which includes Cremophor A6 A20 and A25 the Emulgen series available from Kao Corp. which includes Emulgen 104P 123P 210P 220 320P and 409P the Ethosperse available from Lonza which includes Ethosperse 1A4 1A12 TDAa6 5120 and G26 the Ethylan series available from Brenntag which includes Ethylan D252 253 254 256 257 2512 and 2560 the Plurafac series available from BASF which includes Plurafac RA20 RA30 RA40 RA43 and RA340 the Ritoleth and Ritox series available from Rita Corp. the Volpo series available from Croda which includes Volpo N 10 N 20 S2 S10 C2 C20 CS10 CS20 L4 and L23 and the Texafor series which includes Texafor A1P AP A6 A10 A14 A30 A45 and A60. Other suitable polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ethers include but are not limited to polyethylene glycol 13 stearyl ether steareth 13 polyethylene glycol 14 stearyl ether steareth 14 polyethylene glycol 15 stearyl ether steareth 15 polyethylene glycol 16 stearyl ether steareth 16 polyethylene glycol 17 stearyl ether steareth 17 polyethylene glycol 18 stearyl ether steareth 18 polyethylene glycol 19 stearyl ether steareth 19 polyethylene glycol 20 stearyl ether steareth 20 polyethylene glycol 12 isostearyl ether isosteareth 12 polyethylene glycol 13 isostearyl ether isosteareth 13 polyethylene glycol 14 isostearyl ether isosteareth 14 polyethylene glycol 15 isostearyl ether isosteareth 15 polyethylene glycol 16 isostearyl ether isosteareth 16 polyethylene glycol 17 isostearyl ether isosteareth 17 polyethylene glycol 18 isostearyl ether isosteareth 18 polyethylene glycol 19 isostearyl ether isosteareth 19 polyethylene glycol 20 isostearyl ether isosteareth 20 polyethylene glycol 13 cetyl ether ceteth 13 polyethylene glycol 14 cetyl ether ceteth 14 polyethylene glycol 15 cetyl ether ceteth 15 polyethylene glycol 16 cetyl ether ceteth 16 polyethylene glycol 17 cetyl ether ceteth 17 polyethylene glycol 18 cetyl ether ceteth 18 polyethylene glycol 19 cetyl ether ceteth 19 polyethylene glycol 20 cetyl ether ceteth 20 polyethylene glycol 13 isocetyl ether isoceteth 13 polyethylene glycol 14 isocetyl ether isoceteth 14 polyethylene glycol 15 isocetyl ether isoceteth 15 polyethylene glycol 16 isocetyl ether isoceteth 16 polyethylene glycol 17 isocetyl ether isoceteth 17 polyethylene glycol 18 isocetyl ether isoceteth 18 polyethylene glycol 19 isocetyl ether isoceteth 19 polyethylene glycol 20 isocetyl ether isoceteth 20 polyethylene glycol 12 oleyl ether oleth 12 polyethylene glycol 13 oleyl ether oleth 13 polyethylene glycol 14 oleyl ether oleth 14 polyethylene glycol 15 oleyl ether oleth 15 polyethylene glycol 12 lauryl ether laureth 12 polyethylene glycol 12 isolauryl ether isolaureth 12 polyethylene glycol 13 cetylstearyl ether ceteareth 13 polyethylene glycol 14 cetylstearyl ether ceteareth 14 polyethylene glycol 15 cetylstearyl ether ceteareth 15 polyethylene glycol 16 cetylstearyl ether ceteareth 16 polyethylene glycol 17 cetylstearyl ether ceteareth 17 polyethylene glycol 18 cetylstearyl ether ceteareth 18 polyethylene glycol 19 cetylstearyl ether ceteareth 19 and polyethylene glycol 20 cetylstearyl ether ceteareth 20 . The numbers following the polyethylene glycol term refer to the number of oxyethylene repeat units in the compound. Blends of polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ethers with other materials are also useful in the invention. A non limiting example of a suitable blend is Arlacel 165 or 165 VEG available from Uniqema a blend of glycerol monostearate with polyethylene glycol 100 stearate. Other suitable polyoxyethylene fatty alcohol ethers include those listed in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky Handbook of pharmaceutical excipients 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As used herein the term polyoxyethylene glycerol fatty ester refers to ethoxylated fatty acid ester of glycerine or mixture thereof. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene portion of the molecule has about 2 to about 200 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene portion of the molecule has about 2 to about 100 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene portion of the molecule has about 4 to about 50 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments the polyoxyethylene portion of the molecule has about 4 to about 30 oxyethylene units. Suitable polyoxyethylene glycerol fatty esters include but are not limited to PEG 20 glyceryl laurate Tagat L Goldschmidt PEG 30 glyceryl laurate Tagat L2 Goldschmidt PEG 15 glyceryl laurate Glycerox L series Croda PEG 40 glyceryl laurate Glycerox L series Croda PEG 20 glyceryl stearate Capmul EMG ABITEC Aldo MS 20 KFG Lonza PEG 20 glyceryl oleate Tagat 0 Goldschmidt PEG 30 glyceryl oleate Tagat 02 Goldschmidt .

As used herein the term propylene glycol fatty acid ester refers to an monoether or diester or mixtures thereof formed between propylene glycol or polypropylene glycol and a fatty acid. Fatty acids that are useful for deriving propylene glycol fatty alcohol ethers include but are not limited to those defined herein. In some embodiments the monoester or diester is derived from propylene glycol. In some embodiments the monoester or diester has about 1 to about 200 oxypropylene units. In some embodiments the polypropylene glycol portion of the molecule has about 2 to about 100 oxypropylene units. In some embodiments the monoester or diester has about 4 to about 50 oxypropylene units. In some embodiments the monoester or diester has about 4 to about 30 oxypropylene units. Suitable propylene glycol fatty acid esters include but are not limited to propylene glycol laurates Lauroglycol FCC and 90 available from Gattefosse propylene glycol caprylates Capryol PGMC and 90 available from Gatefosse and propylene glycol dicaprylocaprates Labrafac PG available from Gatefosse .

Suitable sorbitols include but are not limited to PharmSorbidex E420 available from Cargill Liponic 70 NC and 76 NC available from Lipo Chemical Neosorb available from Roquette Partech SI available from Merck and Sorbogem available from SPI Polyols .

Starch sodium starch glycolate and pregelatinized starch include but are not limited to those described in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky Handbook of pharmaceutical excipients 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As used herein the term starch refers to any type of natural or modified starch including but not limited to maize starch also known as corn starch or amylum potato starch also known as amylum rice starch also known as amylum wheat starch also known as amylum and tapioca starch. The term starch also refers to starches that have been modified with regard to molecular weight and branching. The term starch further refers to starches that have been chemically modified to attach chemical functionality such as carboxy hydroxyl hydroxyalkylene or carboxyalkylene groups. As used herein the term carboxyalkylene refers to a group of formula alkylene C O OH or salt thereof. As used herein the term hydroxyalkylene refers to a group of formula alkylene OH. Suitable sodium starch glycolates include but are not limited to Explotab available from JRS Pharma Glycolys available from Roquette Primojel available from DMV International and Vivastar available from JRS Pharma .

Suitable pregelatinized starches include but are not limited to Lycatab C and PGS available from Roquette Merigel available from Brenntag National 78 1551 available from National Starch Spress B820 available from GPC and Starch 1500 available from Colorcon .

As used herein the term stearoyl macrogol glyceride refers to a polyglycolized glyceride synthesized predominately from stearic acid or from compounds derived predominately from stearic acid although other fatty acids or compounds derived from other fatty acids may used in the synthesis as well. Suitable stearoyl macrogol glycerides include but are not limited to Gelucire 50 13 available from Gattefoss .

As used herein the term vegetable oil refers to naturally occurring or synthetic oils which may be refined fractionated or hydrogenated including triglycerides. Suitable vegetable oils include but are not limited to castor oil hydrogenated castor oil sesame oil corn oil peanut oil olive oil sunflower oil safflower oil soybean oil benzyl benzoate sesame oil cottonseed oil and palm oil. Other suitable vegetable oils include commercially available synthetic oils such as but not limited to Miglyol 810 and 812 available from Dynamit Nobel Chicals Sweden Neobee M5 available from Drew Chemical Corp. Alofine available from Jarchem Industries the Lubritab series available from JRS Pharma the Sterotex available from Abitec Corp. Softisan 154 available from Sasol Croduret available from Croda Fancol available from the Fanning Corp. Cutina HR available from Cognis Simulsol available from CJ Petrow EmCon CO available from Amisol Co. Lipvol CO SES and HS K available from Lipo and Sterotex HM available from Abitec Corp. . Other suitable vegetable oils including sesame castor corn and cottonseed oils include those listed in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky Handbook of pharmaceutical excipients 2006 5th ed. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Optical Isomers Diastereomers Geometric Isomers Tautomers Salts. Compounds described herein may contain an asymmetric center and may thus exist as enantiomers. Where the compounds according to the invention possess two or more asymmetric centers they may additionally exist as diastereomers. The present invention includes all such possible stereoisomers as substantially pure resolved enantiomers racemic mixtures thereof as well as mixtures of diastereomers. The formulas are shown without a definitive stereochemistry at certain positions. The present invention includes all stereoisomers of such formulas and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Diastereoisomeric pairs of enantiomers may be separated by for example fractional crystallization from a suitable solvent and the pair of enantiomers thus obtained may be separated into individual stereoisomers by conventional means for example by the use of an optically active acid or base as a resolving agent or on a chiral HPLC column. Further any enantiomer or diastereomer of a compound of the general formula may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known configuration. Compounds may be neutral or pharmaceutically salts thereof. Formulas for carboxylic acids and sulfonamides may be drawn in protonated or unprotonated forms as the acid or amide ion or salt and that all are encompassed by a given formula.

The term alkyl as used herein unless otherwise specified refers to a saturated or unsaturated straight or branched hydrocarbon chain of typically C1 to C10 and specifically includes methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl t butyl pentyl isopentyl neopentyl hexyl isohexyl cyclohexyl cyclohexylmethyl 3 methylpentyl 2 2 dimethylbutyl 2 3 dimethylbutyl ethenyl 2 propenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 pentenyl 1 hexenyl 2 hexenyl and 3 hexenyl and the like. Unsaturated alkyls have at least one double bond of either E or Z stereochemistry where applicable. The term includes both substituted and unsubstituted alkyl groups.

The term substituted as used herein in reference to a moiety or group means that one or more hydrogen atoms in the respective moiety especially up to 5 more especially 1 2 or 3 of the hydrogen atoms are replaced independently of each other by the corresponding number of the described substituents. Alkyl groups can be optionally substituted with one or more moieties selected from the group consisting of hydroxyl amino alkylamino arylamino alkoxy aryloxy nitro cyano sulfonic acid sulfate phosphonic acid phosphate phosphonates optionally substituted heterocycles or optionally substituted aryls. One or more of the hydrogen atoms attached to carbon atom on alkyl may be replaces by one or more halogen atoms e.g. fluorine or chlorine or both such as trifluoromethyl difluoromethyl fluorochloromethyl and the like. The hydrocarbon chain may also be interrupted by a heteroatom such as N O or S.

As used herein the term aryl means a monovalent monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 to 10 ring atoms and optionally substituted independently with one two or three substituents selected from alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl halo nitro cyano optionally substituted phenyl OR where R is hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl optionally substituted phenyl acyl COOR where R is hydrogen or alkyl . More specifically the term aryl includes but is not limited to phenyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl and derivatives thereof.

 Heterocycles means a saturated unsaturated or aromatic monovalent ring of 3 to 8 ring atoms in which 1 2 3 or 4 ring atoms are heteroatoms selected from N O or S the remaining ring atoms being C. The heterocyclo ring may be optionally fused to a benzene ring. The heterocyclic ring may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents preferably one two or three substituents selected from alkyl haloalkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl aryl aralkyl halo cyano acyl monosubstituted amino disubstituted amino carboxy hydroxyl or alkoxycarbonyl. The heterocycle ring may have 1 2 or 3 oxo substitution. Hydroxyls may exist in the keto or enol tautomer. More specifically the term heterocyclo includes but is not limited to dioxanyl imidazolidinyl imidazolyl morpholinyl oxazolidinyl oxazinyl oxadiazolidinyl oxadiazolyl piperidinyl piperazinyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolyl dihydropyrazolyl pyrazolyl tetrahydropyranyl thiazolyl thiomorpholinyl triazolyl and derivatives.

This invention and embodiments illustrating the method and materials used may be further understood by reference to the following non limiting examples.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contained within this specification.

RAS proteins may self assemble together with other membrane associated proteins effectors and scaffolding proteins into plasma membrane tethered microdomains known as nanoclusters. The nanoclusters may be small about 6 20 nm diameter short lived t1 2 less than about 0.4 s signaling platforms and may contain 6 or more proteins. Nanoclusters can differ depending upon the charge and covalent lipid modification of the C terminal hypervariable hv region of the individual RAS isoforms. Downstream signaling effectors may be activated by the about 40 of the RAS which is associated in nanoclusters while the remaining RAS is randomly arrayed over the cell surface.

RAS proteins undergo several steps of translational modification which can determine their membrane localization . RAS may share a C terminal CAAX motif that can undergo cysteine residue preneylation C15 farnesylation or C20 geranylgeranylation followed by removal of the AAX residues by endoplasmic reticulum ER Rce1 RAS and a factor converting enzyme 1 and carboxylation by Icmt isoprenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase . These CAAX modifications by themselves may not be sufficient for RAS plasma membrane association and a second signal may be required. HRAS NRAS and KRAS4A can undergo C16 palmitoylation on cysteine residues in their hv regions catalyzed by ER PATs protein acyltransferases . In KRAS4B the second membrane localization signal can be provided by a lysine rich polybasic amino acid sequence in its hv region that can facilitate an interaction with the negatively charged head groups of and phosphatidylinositol PI on the inner surface of the plasma membrane. PIP3 can be clustered in lipid raft nanodomains together with high levels of PI3K protein to give regions of high signaling activity. The binding of the CNKSR1 PH domain to PIP3 could serve to position the KRAS nanocluster in close proximity to the PI3K signaling nanodomain leading to activation of PI3K a downstream signaling effector for KRAS. Some forms of mut KRAS can have a higher affinity for binding to PI3K than wt KRAS due to a mutation induced change in the structure of the KRAS switch 1 and 2 binding regions that form direct contact with the PI 3 K catalytic domain causing allosteric activation. This could explain the greater sensitivity of mut KRAS to inhibition by siRNA knockdown of CNKSR1 or PH domain inhibition than wt KRAS.

The PH domain is an about 100 to about 120 amino acid three dimensional superfold found in over 500 human proteins. The core of each PH domain consists of seven strands and a C terminal a helix. While PH domains may show a highly conserved 3 dimensional organization the sequence identities among different proteins are only about 7 to about 23 . This is important because with this sequence diversity selective agents can be identified that will be specific for each protein. PH domains can bind to phosphotyrosine and polyproline sequences G subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins and phosphoinositides PIs . While for the majority of PH domain proteins PI binding is weak and non specific the PH domains of many proteins that are components of signal transduction pathways regulating cancer cell growth and survival show high affinity for PIP3 and sometimes PIP2. CNKSR is one such protein that has high affinity binding for PIP3. In embodiments the binding of a small molecule to a PH domain may inhibit protein function.

In other embodiments identifying small molecule PH domain inhibitors using a computational platform may speed identification of potential inhibitors and the decrease the costs of optimizing a drug lead. In such embodiments the in silico molecular docking of libraries of several million chemical structures using the known crystal or homology model structures of the PH domain of the protein of interest may be used to identify inhibitors of CNKSR1. Surface plasmon resonance SPR spectroscopy can measure the extent of binding of the compounds to the PH domain of the protein and in vitro cellular assays can determine biological efficacy. Once active moieties are identified there may be recursive refinement of the model through repeated in silico docking and SPR spectroscopic measurements of binding until lead compounds are obtained. Such embodiments may be used to discover highly specific and potent PH domain inhibitors of CNKSR1.

This role of CNKSR1 as a molecular target for drug development is shown in where transfection with siRNA to CNKSR1 siCNKSR1 may inhibit growth of mut KRAS MiaPaCa 2 pancreatic cells but not the growth of MiaPaCa 2 cells where an allele of mut KRAS has been disrupted by homologous recombination. siCNKSR1 may also inhibit growth of mut KRAS HCT116 colon cancer cells but not the growth of HKE2 HCT116 cells where mut KRAS has been disrupted by homologous recombination. Table 1 shows that the selective inhibition of mut KRAS cell growth can be validated with a second set of 4 individual siCNKSR1s from a second manufacturer.

The effect of siCNKSR1 is further shown in where transfection with siCNKSR1 can inhibit the growth of a panel of 10 mut KRAS non small cell lung cancer NSCLC cell lines but not of 4 NSCLC cell lines with wt KRAS.

In order to demonstrate whether the pleckstrin homology PH domain of CNKSR1 plays a role in facilitating the effect of CNKSR1 on mut KRAS activity we over expressed the PH domain in H1373 mut KRAS NSCLC cells and found that it acted as a dominant negative and inhibited cell growth. We suggest that the PH domain fragment competes with the full length CNKSR1 in the cell .

In embodiments a homology model for the PH domain of CNSKR1 based on known PH domain crystal structures can be developed. The docking program PHuDock can be used to identify potential inhibitors of CNKSR1. Using an in silico library of over 3 million compounds seven compounds have been identified as potential inhibitors of CNKSR1 and thus of mut KRAS cell lines . The binding of the compounds to the expressed PH domain of CNKSR1 KDobs can be measured by surface plasmon resonance SPR spectroscopy. Two of the seven identified compounds compounds 4 and 7 exhibit low micromolar inhibition of mut KRAS cell growth . The most active compound was 7 which inhibited mut KRAS cell growth as effectively as siRNA to KRAS or CNKSR1 .

In embodiments the binding of identified compounds to the crystal structures of other PH domain signaling proteins AKT PDPK1 Btk and Tiam1 can be predicted. In such embodiments the Kds exceed about 100 M. In other embodiments SPR can measure the binding of identified compounds to the expressed PH domains of AKT PDPK1 and Tiam1. No measurable binding was found for 4 and 7. Thus the identified compounds appear have at least about 50 to about 100 fold selectivity for CNKSR1 compared to the other PH domains studied.

In embodiments a homology model can predict small molecules that bind to the PH domain of CNKSR1 and identify compounds that exhibit selective inhibition of mut KRAS cell proliferation. CNKSR1 inhabitation of K RAS signaling can be measured by Western blotting of the down stream target phospho c RAF Ser338 which is specifically phosphorylated by KRAS .

In embodiments identified compounds may be nontoxic at about 200 mg day for about 20 days with no weight loss and no observable toxic effects for the animal and may have antitumor activity A . Compound 7 may have antitumor activity against a mut KRAS H2122 NSCLC tumor xenograft in scid mice where the growth rate of vehicle treated tumors n 10 mice per group may be about 55 mm day and that of compound 7 treated tumors may be about 30 mm day giving a tumor growth rate inhibition of about 45 .

In order to understand better the reasons for the antitumor activity of compound 7 pharmacokinetic studies were conducted. It was found that compound 7 which is an ethyl ester administered orally at a dose of 200 mg kg was rapidly de esterified to the acid metabolite in vivo and also by mouse plasma Table 1 . Following oral administration in vivo plasma concentrations of the parent compound were low about 3 g ml 7 M whereas the de esterified acid form compound 8 was present at high peak concentrations of around 50 g ml 128 M . When compound 8 was administered orally to mice at the same dose even higher peak concentrations of 90 g ml 230 M were achieved. Compound 7 was eliminated with a half life of 6 hr and compound 7 with a half life of 13 hr. Because compound 8 is inactive in cells in culture see it is likely that the rapid conversion of compound 7 to its inactive metabolite compound 8 limits its in vivo activity.

It is noteworthy that compound 7 was more stable in dog and bovine serum and completely stable in human plasma which might lead to less metabolism in human although it was broken down by human carboxylesterases 1 and 2 Table 2 which are found in human intestine liver and tumor.

Through further modeling and screening using an optimal CNKR1 model a new pharmacophore was identified Table 3 compound 35 identified as 12 in that inhibits the growth of wt KRAS and mut KRAS cells more potently than compound 7 or its analogs. In this study a ligand based method that takes into account molecular shape of a query molecule and the pharmacophoric features acceptor donor hydrophobic aromatic etc. of its functional groups was launched. The underlying hypothesis is that molecular entities such as inositol X phosphate may bind in the pocket of the PH domain. Thus providing a competing molecule for that site could diminish its activity in a noticeable manner.

The X Ray structure of a PH domain target bound to inositol tetraphosphate IP4 was retrieved from the RCSB code 1UNQ and prepared within MAESTRO utilizing the Protein Preparation Wizard module. The ligand was extracted and used as a query for virtual screening using the shape screening module of the aforementioned software. Databases of commercial vendors were downloaded as SDF files and converted into 3D structures with Ligprep at pH 7 and calculating protomers and tautomers using EPIK. Basic Lipinski s rules of drug likeness were used to filter out offending compounds. The phase shape program within MAESTRO was employed to screen the aforementioned databases. Briefly conformers were generated on the fly and up to 1000 low energy conformations per each entry in the commercial databases were retained and screened. The atom type used was Phase QSAR Model due to its remarkable good shape screening capabilities seen in previous cases. Conformers with similarity below 0.7 were discarded and the results ranked based on shape similarity. A large database of approximately 3000 compounds was retrieved from the method and every single compound was visually inspected to maximize hydrogen bond pattern maximum overlap of functional groups and overall shape and geometry of the molecules. A subset of these compounds were tested the compounds are as follows 

A particularly active compound was found Compound 12 . An additional subset of these compounds were purchased and tested including 1 2 4 trihydroxyanthracene 9 10 dione benzimidazole 5 6 dicarboxylic acid 4 aminocarbonylamino benzoic acid 2 5 methyl 3 nitropyrazolyl N 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide N 1 acetyl 4 oxo 5 hydroimidazo 5 4 d pyridin 6 yl acetamide N 4 hydrazinosulfonyl phenyl acetamide 3 5 di acetylamino 2 methylbenzoic acid 2 2 hydroxy tert butyl amino N 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide 2 N 3 pyridyl carbamoyl methyl cyclopentylacetic acid N 3 hydroxy 2 pyridyl 4 morpholin 4 ylsulfonyl 2 thienyl carboxamide 4 benzo d furan 2 ylcarbonylamino benzoic acid 2 chloro 5 N 3 chlorophenyl carbamoyl aminobenzoic acid 4 1 methylpyrazol 3 yl carbonylamino benzoic acid 4 5 methoxymethyl 2 furyl carbonylaminobenzoic acid benzo d furan 2 yl N 4 sulfamoylphenyl carboxamide 3 N 4 2 4 dimethylphenyl amino sulfonylphenyl carbamoyl propanoic acid 3 N 4 4 3 carboxypropanoylamino 3 hydroxyphenyl methyl 2 hydroxyphenyl carbamoyl propanoic acid N benzothiazol 2 yl 3 phenylsulfonyl propanamide 2 benzimidazol 2 ylthioacetohydrazide N 4 chlorophenyl 4 sulfamoylphenyl amino carboxamide 4 N 3 chlorophenyl carbamoyl aminobenzamide 3 2E 3 carboxyprop 2 enoylamino benzoic acid N 3 4 dichlorophenyl 4 N methylcarbamoyl phenyl aminocarboxamide 2 furyl N 4 sulfamoylphenyl carboxamide 2 naphthyl N 4 sulfamoylphenyl carboxamide 1 methylsulfonyl indolin 5 yl N 2 pyridyl carboxamide N 3 chlorophenyl 6 methoxy 3 pyridyl amino carboxamide 2 7H 1 2 4 triazolo 4 5 d 1 2 4 triazolin 3 ylthio N 2 pyridyl acetamide 2 2 methoxyphenoxy N 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide N 5 acetylamino 2 hydroxy 3 methylphenyl acetamide 2 3 iodo 1 2 4 triazolyl N 3 4 5 trimethoxyphenyl acetamide 2 morpholin 4 yl N 4 sulfamoylphenyl acetamide N benzimidazol 2 ylmethyl 2 4 hydroxyquinazolin 2 ylthio acetamide N 3 methylphenyl 2 9 4 methylphenyl 6 oxohydropurin 8 ylthio acetamide N 4 naphthylamino sulfonyl phenyl phenylamino carboxamide 2 hydroxy 6 methoxyquinoline 4 carboxylic acid 4 N 4 N 1E 2 4 methoxyphenyl 1 azavinyl carbamoylphenyl carbamoyl butanoic acid 6H 7H 1 4 dioxino 5 6 f benzimidazol 2 ylmethan 1 ol N 2 fluorophenyl methyl 3 N 2 fluorophenyl methyl carbamoylamino phenyl aminocarboxamide benzo d furan 2 yl N 3 ethyl 4 oxo 3 hydroquinazolin 7 yl carboxamide 2 2 oxo 3 hydrobenzoxazol 3 yl N 1 3 thiazol 2 yl acetamide N 2H benzo 3 4 d 1 3 dioxolan 5 yl N 2H benzo 3 4 d 1 3 dioxolen 5 yl ethane 1 2 diamide 2H 3H furano 3 4 e 1 4 dioxane 5 7 dicarboxylic acid ethyl 11 amino 12 cyano 8 methoxymethyl spiro 2H 3 4 5 6 tetrahydropyran 4 7 4 7 dihydroimidazo 5 4 b pyridine 10 carboxylate 2 1 3 dimethyl 2 6 dioxo 1 3 7 trihydropurin 7 yl N 5 trifluoromethyl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl acetamide N benzothiazol 2 yl 3 methyl 4 oxo 3 hydrophthalazinyl carboxamide 4 fluorophenyl N 1 oxo 3 hydroisobenzofuran 5 yl carboxamide N 3 fluoro 4 methylphenyl 2 6 oxo 9 phenylhydropurin 8 ylthio acetamide 2H benzo 3 4 d 1 3 dioxolen 5 yl N 5 ethylthio 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl carboxamide 6 hydrazinecarbonyl 4 oxo 3 4 dihydrophthalazin 1 olate 2 7 amino 1 2 4 triazolo 4 5 d 1 2 4 triazolin 3 ylthio N 5 ethyl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl acetamide 2 amino 5 methyl 4 oxo 5 hydro 1 3 thiazolo 5 4 d pyridazine 7 carbonitrile hydro 5H 1 2 3 triazolo 4 5 f benzotriazole 4 8 dione N 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 N 2 hydroxyphenyl carbamoyl 5 phenylcarbonylamino phenylcarboxamide N 2H 3H benzo 3 4 e 1 4 dioxan 6 yl 8 hydro 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyrimidin 2 ylcarboxamide 4 hydrazinecarbonyl 3 methylbenzo 4 5 d pyrido 1 2 a imidazole 1 olate N methyl 2 oxo 1 2 dihydrobenzo cd indole 6 sulfonamide N 2H 3H benzo 3 4 e 1 4 dioxin 6 yl 2 1 2 methoxyphenyl 5 7 dimethyl 2 4 dioxo 1 3 dihydropyridino 2 3 d pyrimidin 3 yl acetamide 2 amino 5 2 6 diamino 4 oxo 3 hydropyrimidin 5 yl 6 5 chloro 2 thienyl 3 hydropyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 4 one 5 hydroxy 1 3 dimethyl 1 3 8 trihydropyridino 2 3 d pyrimidine 2 4 7 trione 6 hydroxy 5 6 hydroxy 4 oxo 2 thioxo 1 3 dihydropyrimidin 5 yl methyl 2 thioxo 1 3 dihydropyrimidin 4 one methyl 5 2 furylcarbonylamino 3 methoxycarbonyl benzoate 2 N 9 10 dioxoanthryl carbamoyl methylthioacetic acid 2 2 4 dibromophenoxy N 4 4 sulfamoylphenyl amino sulfonylphenyl acetamide 1 3 bis hydroxymethyl 5 methoxy 3 hydrobenzimidazol 2 one 10 3 chlorophenyl amino 2 3 dimethoxy 5 6 7 trihydropyrimidino 6 1 a isoquinolin 8 one 2 4 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl cyclobutane 1 3 and dicarboxylic acid.

Further exploration of the active compounds suggested that hybrid molecules based on compounds 7 and 12 may provide more selective novel compounds. Table 4 identifies six hybrid compounds with good retrosynthetic scores. Their PKD properties were calculated including parameters such as Log P log S and MW of molecules. To undertake the hybridization novel ligands were generated through the recombination of two active ligand fragments based the known structural information . The new molecules are a hybrids of two scaffolds or a transfer of a substituent from one scaffold to another. The input geometries are assumed to be significant thus new structures preserve intramolecular orientations as closely as possible.

Experimental results indicated that compounds 7 and 12 inhibit CNKR1. The striking similarity of the 4 oxophthalazin scaffold of compound 7 with the 2 hydroxynaphtalen of compound 12 combined with the acetate moiety of 7 and the sulfanylacetate of 12 possibly suggests a common binding mode. Thus the hybridized molecules could provide improved pharmacological features.

Compounds 7 and 12 were loaded as 3D SDfiles into MAESTRO and the BREED python script was run. The default mode was used which briefly the bond overlap criteria was set to a maximum atom atom distance of 1.0 and a maximum angle of 15 degrees was allowed to take place. The number of generations was set to 1. The six compounds shown in Table 4 were obtained.

The isogenic KRAS lines harboring G12D G12C and G12V were obtained from Horizon Discovery labs on a one year lease. These cells were cultured in McCoys media with 10 FBS to 80 confluency. Cells were then released from flasks via trypsinization and plated into 96 well plates at an initial density range of 2000 cells per well. Cells were allowed 24 hours to attach and then the agents were added to the culture media at a range of concentrations from 0 100 M. Cells were incubated for 72 hours with the drugs and then viability was assessed using an MTS viability assay. Cells were exposed to MTS reagent Promega dissolved in PBS Hyclone at a concentration of 200 L reagent mL media for 2 hours. Absorbance was then read at 490 nm and viability was expressed as a percentage normalized between the negative control no cells plated and the condition of cells with no drug added 100 viability normalized as the upper limit of viability.

Our panel of 30 cell lines and an extensive characterization were obtained from Dr. John Minna UTSW . All cell lines were cultured in RPMI 1640 with 10 FBS. Cells were treated with concentrations of agents at concentrations 0.01 to 50 M and evaluated as described above. IC s were determined using Excelfit.

MiaPaCa 2 and M27 were confirmed and maintained in DMEM with 10 FBS. Optimization was carried out using in house optimization methods in house. A parallel screen was then carried out with a genome wide siRNA library Dharmacon .

For transfection in a six well plate cells were plated at 100 000 cells per well in 2 mls media and allowed to attach overnight. Per well 5 l of Dharmafect 2 Dharmacon was added to 200 l OptiMEM Gibco and 4 l of the siCNKSR1 smartpool Dharmacon M 012217 01 0020 or individual siCNKSR1 siRNAs Qiagen SI02665411 was added to 200 L to OptiMEM in parallel and allowed to sit for 5 minutes. These tubes were mixed and incubated at room temperature for 20 minutes. 1.6 of the appropriate media was then added to this mixture. and then media in the wells removed. This mixture was then added to the cells in a dropwise fashion and the cells were incubated for 48 72 hours. For the GFP control and CNK1 PH domain plasmids 175 000 cellsper well plated in a 6 well plate. Per well 2.5 l of lipofectamine 2000 Gibco and 125 l of OptiMEM were combined and 2.5 g of the appropriate plasmid and 125 l of OptiMEM were combined in separate tubes and allowed to incubate at room temperature for 5 minutes. These two tubes were then combined and allowed to incubate for 20 minutes. 200 l of this mixture was then added to 1 ml of fresh media already in the appropriate well and allowed to incubate for 5 hours. The transfection efficiency was determined through the expression of GFP after 24 hours and the cells were counted with a hemocytometer after 72 hours to determine viability.

The plates were optimized for the best cell density and found to be 20 000 cells per mL. The lid was removed from a 96 well Greiner plate and turned upside down. 20 L of the 20 000 cells per mL suspension was then added directly into the middle of the circles found on the lid of the 96 well plate forming a small drop. 100 L of media was added into the corresponding wells used to maintain the temperature of the drops and the lid was flipped back over carefully placing it back onto the plate without disturbing the drop. The plate was then placed into the incubator for 3 days to allow the cells to migrate to the bottom of the drop due to gravity. After 3 days 400 L of media was added to the corresponding wells a SCIVAX 96 well plate. The lid from the Greiner 96 well plate was removed and placed onto the SCIVAX plate allowing the drop to come in contact with the media and placed back into the incubator. After one hour 200 L of media was removed from the corresponding wells carefully without disturbing the spheroid and imaged.

HEK293T cells were co transfected with CNK and either wild type or G12D mutant KRAS. Twenty four hours post transfection cells were seeded on glass coverslips and allowed to grow a further 24 h and then serum deprived overnight. Cells were fixed with 4 w v paraformaldehyde pH 8.0 for 20 min at room temperature. Following 6 7 washes with PBS pH 8.0 the coverslip was mounted onto a slide with mounting medium 0.1 p phenylenediamine 75 glycerol in PBS at pH 7.5 8.0 . Confocal laser scanning microscopy was performed with a Leica SP5 confocal microscope system with 63 oil immersion objective numerical aperture NA 1.4 a line scan speed of 600 Hz with image size of 1024 1024 pixels. GFP was excited with an argon visible light laser tuned to 488 nm mRFP were excited with a krypton laser tuned to 543 nm GFP and RFP fluorescence emissions were collected using a photomultiplier tube via 514 10 nm and 595 10 nm band selections respectively.

FLIM experiments were carried out using a Leica TCP SP5 inverted advanced confocal microscope system with internal photomultiplier tube PMT detector for TCSPC time correlated single photon counting . The sample was excited with a tunable femtosecond fs titanium sapphire laser with repetition rate of 80 MHz and pulse width less then 80 fs Spectral Physics Mai Tai BB . The wavelength used for two photon excitation was 930 nm and the fluorescence was detected through a 525 25 nm interference filter. Images were obtained with oil immersion objective numerical aperture NA 1.4 a line scan speed of 400 Hz with image size of 512 512 pixels. For FLIM analysis the pixels were reduced to 256 256. FLIM data was collected using Becker Hickl SPC830 data and image acquisition card for TCSPC. The fluorescence decays were fitted with a single exponential decay model using Becker and Hickl s SPCImage software and the GFP fluorescence lifetimes were displayed in a false colour map.

All interaction analyses were done with a Biacore T100 Control Software v3.2 and BIAevaluation v4.1 analysis software Biacore . The PH domain His fusion proteins CNK1 and AKT1 were expressed and immobilized on a NTA chip to a level of 10 000 response units or less. Small molecule analytes at concentrations ranging from 50 M to 0.010 M were injected at a high flow rate 30 L min DMSO concentrations in all samples and running buffer were 1 5 v v 30 L min DMSO concentrations in all samples and running buffer were 1 5 v v .

Cells were washed twice with ice cold PBS and lysis buffer containing 50 mmol L HEPES pH 7.5 50 mmol L NaCl 0.2 mmol L NaF 0.2 mmol L sodium orthovanadate 1 mmol L phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride 20 g mL aprotinin 20 g mL leupeptin 1 NP40 and 0.25 sodium deoxycholate. Protein concentration was determined by bicinchoninic acid assay Pierce Biotechnology and 50 g of cell lysate protein were boiled for 5 min with denaturing buffer containing 0.25 mol L Tris pH 6.8 35 glycerol 8 SDS and 10 2 mercaptoethanol loaded on a 10 acrylamide bisacrylamide gel and separated by electrophoresis at 150 V for 40 min. Proteins were electrophoretically transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane preincubated with a blocking buffer of 137 mmol L NaCl 2.7 mmol L KCl 897 mmol L CaCl2 491 mmol L MgCl2 3.4 mmol L Na2HPO4 593 mmol L KH2PO4 and 5 bovine serum albumin and incubated overnight with anti phosphorylated Thr308 Akt Ser473 Akt anti CRaf Ser 338 Mapk Thr202 Tyr204 p70 S6K Thr389 or anti Akt. Cell Signaling 1 1000 anti CNKSR1 Signal Transduction labs anti lamin A C and anti actin Santa Cruz Biotechnology 1 2000Donkey anti rabbit IgG peroxidase coupled secondary antibody GE Healthcare was used for detection . For measurement of active RalA and RalB Ral and RalB activation kits were used Biorad . Band density was measured using the Renaissance chemiluminescence system on Kodak X Omat Blue ML films Eastman Kodak .

A commercially available docking package GOLD GOLD 3.2 CCDC Cambridge UK 2007 was used to evaluate the docking of compounds 1 7 into the binding pocket see e.g. Table 5. Other docking was performed using modeling algorithms with state of the art commercial drug discovery software Schrodinger suite . GLIDE was chosen as the docking algorithm used to select and optimize compounds providing a GlideScore as a rough estimate of binding affinity that was used to rank and select the best compounds. Additionally ligand based approaches provided an alternative to structure based drug discovery. Ligand based virtual screening methodologies can take into account shape and electrostatics like ROCS and the pharmacophoric features acceptor donor hydrophobic aromatic etc. of its functional groups. Inositol tetraphosphate IP4 binding to the PH domain of CNKSR1 provided a good starting point for shape screening. Both structure based and ligand based approaches were used to find novel compounds Table 7 and to refine and improve lead compounds Tables 8 and 9 . SPR interaction analyses for Compounds 1 through 7 were performed with a Biacore 2000 using Biacore2000 Control Software v3.2 and BIAevaluation v4.1 analysis software Biacore as described in Mol Cancer Ther 7 2621 2008 . SPR interaction analyses of all other compounds was undertaken using a Biacore T100 with Control and Evaluation software kit.

Compounds in accordance with embodiments may be produced as shown in Synthetic Scheme I. The 2 hydroxy 3 methoxybenzaldehyde I was protected by acylation to give compound II then brominated to give compound III and deprotected to give compound IV. Nitration of compound IV gave the nitrobenzene V which reacted with an alkylsulfide to give the thiol ether VI. Wittig reaction of the aldehyde to the unsaturated ester VII followed by a reduction gave the aniline ester VIII compound 107 . The aniline was sulfonylated to give the thioamide IX compound 103 and the ester hydrolyzed to give acid X compound 104 . Synthesis of analogs 103 110 may be readily prepared by a person of skill in the art of organic synthesis.

Compounds in accordance with embodiments may be produced as shown in Synthetic Scheme II. The methyl 2 cyanobenzoate XI was reacted with a hydrazine equivalent to give the azaisoquinolone XII. The azaisoquinoline was alkylated with the chloride XIII to give the coupled compound XIV. The free amine of the coupled compound XIV was sulfonylated with the acid chloride XV to give the thioamide XVI compound 5 . Synthesis of analogs may be readily prepared by a person of skill in the art of organic synthesis.

Compounds in accordance with embodiments may be produced as shown in Synthetic Scheme III. The bromoketone XVIII was reacted with the thioamide XVII in ethanol at reflux for two hours to give the thiazole ester XIX in 70 yield. The thiazole ester was reduced with lithium aluminum hydride in tetrahydrofuran at 0 C. for one hour to give the benzylic alcohol XX in 78 yield. The benzylic alcohyl was displaced to give benzylic chloride XXI in 82 yield by reaction with thionyl chloride in tetrahydrofuran at room temperature for two hours. Wittig reaction of phthalic anhydride in chloroform at reflux for 18 hours provided the unsaturated lactone XXII in 54 yield. Reaction of the unsaturated lactone with hydrazine in ethanol at reflux for three hours provided the oxoisoquinazaline XXIII. Coupling the oxoisoquinazaline XXIII with the benzyl chloride XXI was carried out in 73 yield by the action of sodium hydride in dimethylformamide at room temperature for one hour to give the N alkylated isoquinazaline XXIV. Sapolification with 10 potassium hydroxide in ethanol and dioxane at room temperature for two hours gave the carboxylic acid XXV compound 8 . Amide formation with N methylpiperazine gave the amide XXVI compound 123 . Compound 123 Molecular Formula CHNOS Melting Point 135.8 C. NMR Analysis H NMR 600 MHz CDCl 8.54 d J 7.8 1H 8.07 d J 7.9 1H 7.91 t J 7.6 1H 7.86 t J 7.5 1H 7.70 d J 7.7 2H 7.46 s 1H 7.22 d J 7.7 2H 5.81 s 1H 5.68 s 1H 4.65 d J 12.1 1H 4.32 d J 12.0 1H 4.08 s 2H 3.63 s 1H 3.40 d J 10.7 1H 3.20 s 1H 3.12 s 1H 2.50 s 1H 2.38 d J 14.8 4H 2.30 s 3H .

Compounds in accordance with embodiments may be produced as shown in Synthetic Scheme IV. 2 3 Dihydroxybenzaldehyde XXV was ketalized with formaldehyde to give the aryl dioxole XXVI and the aldehyde oxidized to give the phenol XXVII. Acylation of the benzyl protected phenol with a formate equivalent gave the benzaldehyde XXIX which was nitrated to give the nitrobenzaldehyde XXX. The aldehyde was conjugated to give the unsaturated ester XXXI and reduced to the anilino ester XXII. Sulfonylation gave the thioamide XXXIII compound 85 which was saponified to the carboxylic acid XXXIV compound 83 . Similarly analogs 80 90 may be prepared by a person of skill in the art of organic synthesis. A person of skill in the art of organic synthesis can readily prepare other claimed compounds by processes similar to those in Schemes I IV.

The table below shows results from a Proliferation Assay and Surface Plasmon Resonance data for selected compounds.

