---

title: One-way public relationships
abstract: Techniques are described to establish one-way public relationships. In an implementation, a service manager module is usable to configure a webpage for output to a client over a network to provide to a user of the client an indication of others users that are part of a social network of the user and have establishes one-way public relationships, respectively, with another user corresponding to an object of a social networking service available from a service provider. In addition, a relation module is configured to establish a one-way public relationship between the user of the client and the other user corresponding to the object without establishing a mutual friend relationship between the user and the other user. In an implementation, the one-way public relationship is established in response to user selection of a control that is presented on the webpage that is output at the client in conjunction with the object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09525584&OS=09525584&RS=09525584
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09525584
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130218
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 498 279 filed on Jul. 6 2009 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The popularity of social networking via online networking sites is ever increasing. One way that people use social networking sites is to share information such as recommendations pictures videos notes discussions and so forth on profile pages.

Sometimes a user may come across an object person group or thing on a social networking page that they like and would like to express interest in. Using a traditional approach the user may establish a mutual friend relationship with the object to add the object to the user s social network and then provide input to become a fan of the object. By establishing the mutual friend relationship with the object the user enables reciprocal access to the user s social network information such as posted pictures and profile information. This may be alright with the user if the owner of the object is a close friend of the user s. However in some instances the user may just want to be a fan of a public object e.g. a rock band author book business without becoming friends with the object or a corresponding owner. As such privacy concerns with the traditional approach may inhibit users from becoming fans of public objects.

Techniques are described to establish one way public relationships for social networking. In an implementation a control is exposed that is operable to become a fan of an object within a social networking page. Responsive to operation of the control by a user data may be stored to establish a one way public relationship between the user and the selected object. By establishing a one way public relationship rather than a mutual friend relationship the object and or a corresponding owner of the object is not included in the user s social network and is not provided access to the user s profile status or other personal information. The one way public relationship may be employed by a service provider to serve content and or ads related to the object to the user. The one way public relationships may also be employed by the service provider to push status updates regarding the object to fans of the object without establishing mutual friend relationships between the fans and the object.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A user may come across an object person group or thing on a social networking page that they like and would like to express interest in. To do so using a traditional approach the user may establish a mutual friend relationship with the object that adds the object to the user s social network. Since a mutual friend relationship with the object enables access to the user s private social network information some users may be reluctant to establish mutual friend relationships with public entities such as bands businesses and social organizations.

Techniques are described to establish one way public relationship in a social networking environment. In an implementation a control is exposed within a social networking page that is operable to become a fan of an object. Responsive to operation of the control by a user data may be stored to establish a one way public relationship between the user and the selected object. By establishing a one way public relationship instead of a mutual friend relationship the object and or a corresponding owner of the object are not included in the user s social network and are not provided access to the user s profile status or other personal information. The user is able however to obtain content and or status updates related to the object based on the one way public relationship.

For example Steve may have a social networking account through a service provider that enables Steve to interact with a group of friends. This may include sharing favorite objects one to another such as music groups movies and books. To select favorite objects Steve may navigate to various webpages provided by the service provider and make selections of the objects. A user who has selected a favorite object may be referred to herein as a fan of the object.

For example Steve may notice that some of his friends have become fans of the band U2 . Steve then navigates to a profile page for the band U2 using the social networking account. The profile page for U2 exposes a portion that is selectable by Steve to add U2 to his favorite objects. For example a control such as an Add button may be exposed that is selectable to enable Steve to become a fan of U2 e.g. add U2 as a favorite object . Steve may decide that he wants to add the band U2 as one of his favorite bands.

When Steve clicks on the Add button a relation module operates to establish a social networking relationship between Steve and U2 . In at least some embodiments the control is operable by a single click to establish a one way public relationship between Steve and U2 . For instance a one way public relationship may be established using accounts with the service provider corresponding to Steve and or U2 . Based on this relationship Steve may be able to post on U2 s profile page and obtain content and or status updates related to U2 based on the one way public relationship. The one way public relationship may also be employed by the service provider to serve content and or ads related to U2 to Steve s account across various services. The one way public relationship may further be employed by the service provider to push status updates for U2 to Steve s account. A mutual friend relationship is not established between Steve and U2 in this instance. Accordingly U2 is not provided reciprocal access to Steve s social network and related information and is not added to Steve s contacts.

In the discussion that follows a section entitled Example Environment describes an example environment and devices which may be employed to provide one way public relationships in various embodiments. Following this a section entitled One Way Public Relationship Examples describes example techniques and user interfaces related to one way public relationships in accordance with one or more embodiments. Last a section entitled Example Devices is provided and describes example devices that can be used to implement one or more embodiments.

For the purposes of the following discussion a referenced component such as service provider may refer to one or more entities and therefore by convention reference may be made to a single entity e.g. the service provider or multiple entities e.g. the service providers the plurality of service providers and so on using the same reference number.

The service provider may have one or more processors and memory . Service provider is depicted as storing a service manager module in the memory that is executable via the one or more processors . Service manager module represents functionality operable by service provider to manage various services that may be made available over the network . For example various services may be provided via webpages or other user interfaces that are communicated over the network for output by the one or more clients . Service manager module may manage access to the services performance of the services configuration of the webpages to provide the services and so on.

Some examples of services include but are not limited to a search service an e mail service to send and receive e mail instant messaging service to provide instant messages between clients and a social network service to facilitate connections and interactions between groups of users who share common interests and activities. The social network service may assist users in connecting to a group provide a variety ways for users to interact e.g. group e mail website blog messaging and provide recommendations to the groups based on shared interests and activities. In at least some embodiments social network service may also be configured for selection of favorite objects in accordance with techniques described herein. At least some objects may be selected and associated with users using one way public relationships. Service provider may leverage the one way public relationships to serve content updates ads and so forth related to an object to fans of object across the various services . Additional examples of services include a shopping service a weblog service productivity service authentication service a news service and an advertisement service to name a few.

The authentication service may be provided by the service manager module to authenticate clients to access various services that may be provided by one or more of the service providers . For example a client may provide a username and password that is authenticated by the authentication service. When the authentication is successful the authentication service may pass a token to enable access to corresponding services . Authentication of the client to an account may provide access to a single corresponding service provider and or service . Additionally or alternatively a single authentication e.g. a single sign on may correspond to many services such that authentication to a single account provides access to many service providers and or to an entire suite of services .

Service manager module may also manage an accounts database that may be configured to store a variety of data related to user accounts with the one or more service providers . By way of example and not limitation accounts database is depicted as storing account identifiers that may be used for authentication and access control e.g. unique account IDs usernames passwords and so on relation data that may define favorite objects friends and relationships associated with user accounts and profile data that may describe user settings preferences and personal pages accessible through a social networking service and or other services . A variety of other data is also contemplated including service authorizations user preferences program files such as documents and spreadsheets maintained online and other data typically associated with user accounts.

Service provider is also depicted as storing a relation module in memory that is executable via the one or more processors to implement aspects of techniques for one way public relationships described herein. In an embodiment functionality represented by the relation module may be implemented as an application programming interface API that may be made accessible to the clients over the network .

The one or more clients are depicted as having one or more processors and memory . Memory is depicted as storing another relation module that may be deployed to the client and is executable via the one or more processors to implement client side aspects of one way public relationships herein. In an embodiment functionality represented by the relation module may be implemented as a script that is included with a webpage provided by the service provider .

To enable various communications over the network the one or more clients may also include a communication module . Communication module is depicted as being stored in memory and is also executable via the processor to provide various interactions with service providers and or services . Examples of such interactions include but are not limited to communicating one to another navigating content searching webpages accessing services interacting with a social networking site performing searches instant messaging e mail and so forth. Communication module may be implemented as a browser or other suitable application to obtain and output webpages from the service provider over the network . Communication module may also represent a component of another application used to obtain one or more services from the service providers . For example communication module may be configured as a component of a desktop social networking application of a client .

As noted above content updates and or ads may be served to clients based at least in part upon one way public relationships established between the client s and objects. Content may be from the service provider and or from third party sources such as the one or more content providers depicted in the environment . The one or more content providers are depicted as having one or more processors and memory . Memory may store a variety of content that may be selectively provided to the client based upon relationships to favorite objects. Examples of content include but are not limited to album audio video clips webpages artwork band images book images artist author pictures descriptions content metadata e.g. dates filenames chapters titles author notes publisher source fans data and demographics and so forth. Memory is further illustrated as storing advertisements which may also be selectively provided to the client based upon relationships to favorite objects. Various advertisements are contemplated including banner ads audio video ads pop up ads and so forth. The content and advertisements may be provided in conjunction with a plurality of services provided to a user by the service provider .

Having considered devices and components of an example environment consider now example techniques and user interfaces for one way public relationships that may be implemented in the environment using the example components as well as in other environments.

The following discussion describes example techniques and user interfaces for one way public relationships that may be implemented utilizing the previously described systems and devices. Aspects of the procedures described below may be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion reference may be made to the example environment of .

A webpage is presented to a client that includes an object of a social networking service block . For example a user such as Steve in the example above may interact with a communication module of a client to obtain webpages from a service provider . Steve may utilize an account with the service provider to access webpages corresponding to various services . In at least some embodiments the webpages may be exposed in the course of Steve s interaction with a social networking service available from the service provider . Service provider may execute a service manager module and or a relation module to provide the interaction with the social networking service as well as other services .

The social networking service may enable interaction with various objects. The objects may be associated with other users groups profile pages user accounts things images art songs books posts products and so forth. Generally an object has an owner e.g. a book has an author albums have a band and so on and may be associated with an account of the owner with the service provider . The objects may be accessible though social networking pages of the corresponding owners and or through various other webpages output by the service provider in the course of providing services to clients . For example Steve may navigate to a profile page corresponding to the band Foo Fighters that has various objects including objects for the band albums of the band songs of the band album art work and postings of the band to name a few.

Referring now to an implementation is illustrated showing an example webpage that is operable to enable one way public relationships. The webpage in this instance is illustrated as incorporated within a user interface that may be provided by the communication module . For example the communication module may be configured as a browser operable to expose the user interface to enable interaction with one or more service providers and corresponding services . To provide the interaction with services the user interface includes a menu bar an address bar and a navigation portion . The menu bar is a portion of the user interface that includes drop down menus of commands examples of which are illustrated as file edit favorites tools and help. The address bar is configured to receive inputs to navigate to particular network addresses and or display current network addresses from which the client has received content that is being displayed. The navigation portion may be operable to navigate to interact with a service provider in various ways including selecting various services performing for webpages obtaining different webpages corresponding to a social networking service and so forth.

In the example of the webpage within the user interface is configured as profile page for the band Foo Fighters that may be exposed to Steve via social networking service music service or other services from the service provider . Although depicted as being part of the user interface of a browser a user interface comparable to the webpage may also be provided by standalone applications of the client such as a desktop social networking application. In each case the webpage may make use of a relation module configured to enable one way public relationships discussed herein.

A control is exposed that is operable to establish a one way public relationship with the object block . For instance through interaction with various webpages Steve may make selections to become a fan of objects in a social networking environment. Various controls selectable to cause a one way relationship to be established with corresponding objects may be exposed within webpages in conjunction with the objects. The controls may be configured in a variety of ways. By way of example and not limitation a control may be configured as a button selectable text an icon a menu item or another suitable control exposed via the webpage .

In particular the example webpage in is depicted as having an add control that appears in the profile page for Foo Fighters . The text Become a Fan appears by the add control . Steve may select the add control to initiate creation of a fan relationship with the Foo Fighters . Additionally or alternatively the text Become a Fan may be selectable to create the fan relationship. In accordance with techniques described herein the add control and other suitable controls may be configured to establish a one way public relationship with a corresponding object.

Note that a fans list of the webpage is also illustrated that presents Steve with a list of friends in his social network that are fans of the Foo Fighters . The fans list may be configured based upon friends associated with Steve and the one way public relationships established between those friends and the Foo Fighters . The fans list informs Steve about some of his friend s favorites and may assist Steve in deciding whether to become a fan himself.

In addition the webpage may include various other content portions related to the Foo Fighters . For example depicts example content portions including a top songs list an albums list and a what s new portion configured to present postings and status updates. Note that various other selectable controls not shown that are configured to initiate creation of fan relationships including one way public relationships may be associated with and appear with other objects. For example selectable controls operable to establish one way public relationships may be associated with songs in the top songs list albums in the albums list and or with postings in the what s new portion .

Responsive to operation of the control the one way public relationship is established between the client and the object block . Continuing the preceding example Steve may decide to become a fan of Foo Fighters . To do so Steve may select the add control exposed in the example user interface of . In this example the add control is selectable to become a fan of the Foo Fighters which may involve establishing a one way public relationship between Steve and Foo Fighters . Note that selectable controls may be configured to create different types of social networking relationships including one way public relationships and mutual friend relationships.

As noted one way public relationships enable a user to gain access to a social network and related information of another party without providing the other party with access to the user s own social network or adding the other party to the user s contacts. In other words the relationship is one way . Further the other party s acknowledgement of the relationship with the particular user may not be required to establish a one way public relationship between the user and the other party. One way public relationships provide a mechanism for public entities such as bands social organizations authors businesses and so forth to leverage the popularity of social networks to interact with users e.g. fans members customers while overcoming privacy concerns that may keep some users from establishing mutual friend relationships with these public entities.

In contrast to the one way public relationships mutual friend relationships enable reciprocal sharing between parties. Both parties in a mutual friend relationship may have to agree to the relationship. Further with mutual friend relationships each party is given access to the other s social network and related information such as profile pages or other webpages status updates friends lists favorites items pictures comments and so forth. Mutual friends may be added to a list of contacts that a user may have for use with one or more services . Users may choose to create mutual friend relationships with people who they know well such as family members classmates relatives and close friends.

To create these and other social networking relationships relation module may operate responsive to interaction of a user with a suitably configured control. For instance relation module may establish social networking relationships by way of user accounts with the service provider . The relation module may be operable by a client by a service provider and or in combination thereof. In particular user selections of the controls may be detected by operation of a relation module of service provider and or a client .

When a user selection to add a favorite object is detected relation module may store or update relation data associated with an account of the user to reflect a social networking relationship between the user and the object. The relation data for an object may include at least data to identify the object and data to describe a type of relationship e.g. one way public or mutual friend 

In one or more embodiments configurable settings may be employed to determine a type of relationship to be established when a control operable to create a social networking relationship is selected. Profile data associated with user accounts may include settings to select a default relationship type for one or more user actions. For instance a user may configure account settings in their profile data such that one way relationships are established by default for objects they select as favorites. In this manner a control can be configured to create a one way public relationship in response to a single click and without further action by a user. Alternatively a user may instead choose to configure account settings to set mutual friend relationships by default.

In at least some embodiments a user may configure account settings to present an option to select a type of relationship when a control operable to create a social networking relationship is selected. Accordingly a dialog box webpage or other suitable message may be presented when a control is selected that provides an option to choose a one way public relationship or a mutual friend relationship for a corresponding object. Thus a relationship to an object may be created in accordance with a user selection in response to an option to select a type of relationship.

In another example a type of relationship to be established may be based upon attributes associated with a selected object. For instance objects may include a relation type attribute that indicates whether the object is public or private. An owner of an object may set the relation type attribute to control the type of relationship that is created when users become fans of the object. When a user selects a control to become fan of an object relation module uses the attributes to determine a type of relationship to establish. In an embodiment one way public relationships are established for objects designated as public. For other objects the default may be to establish a mutual friend relationship that enables reciprocal exchanges. Thus a one way public relationship may be selectively established based upon the attributes.

Consider again the example band profile page of . Assume that Steve has configured his account with the service provider to establish one way public relationships by default. In this case a selection of the example add control may automatically establish a one way public relationship between Steve and Foo Fighters . In particular when Steve selects the example add control of an entry for Foo Fighters may be created in relation data corresponding to an account of Steve s with the service provider . The relation data that is created includes data to define the relationship as a one way public relationship.

When one way public relationships to objects are established services are provided to the client using the one way public relationships block . For example a service provider and or content provider may make use of one way public relationships in various ways to provide related services to clients . By way of example and not limitation this may include serving content to the clients based on the one way public relationship block and or providing status updates regarding the object to client block .

For instance Steve may be able to post on a Foo Fighters social network page and obtain content and or status updates related to Foo Fighters based on the one way public relationship established in the preceding example. Further the one way public relationship may be employed by the service provider to serve content and or ads related to the Foo Fighters to Steve s account across various services . The one way public relationships may also be employed by the service provider to push status updates for Foo Fighters to Steve s account.

By way of example Steve may interact with a communication module of a client to obtain a webpage that corresponds to his own profile page. Status updates regarding Foo Fighters may appear within Steve s profile page. A favorite item list may also appear that indicates that Steve is a fan of the Foo Fighters . In addition service provider may configure the profile page to include an advertisement in the profile that relates to Foo Fighters such as an advertisement for an upcoming concert a similar band a music retailer or another suitable advertisement.

Note once again that a mutual friend relationship is not established between Steve and Foo Fighters. Accordingly Foo Fighters is not provided reciprocal access to Steve s social network and related information. Further examples related to using one way public relationships to provide content ads and or status updates across various services may be found in relation to the following figures.

A client is authenticated to interact with services from a service provider over a network block . For example the user Steve in the foregoing discussion may have a user account through a service provider that enables Steve to interact with a plurality of services from the service provider . Steve may execute a communication module of a client e.g. a browser to access his account and corresponding services . As noted above an authentication service of the service provider may operate to authenticate users to access services . This may involve requesting credentials user name and password from the client when Steve attempts access to his account. Upon successful authentication e.g. verification of the credentials the client is permitted to access Steve s account and corresponding services . In at least some embodiments authentication to a single account provides access to many service providers and or to an entire suite of services .

One or more one way public relationships are ascertained between the client and objects of a social networking service block . For instance relation module of service provider may operate to examine relation data associated with an authenticated account to ascertain one way public relationships corresponding to the account. The one way public relationships may be established with objects in various ways such as the examples discussed with respect to procedure of .

Consider the foregoing example of a one way public relationship established by Steve with the band Foo Fighters. Relation module identifies this relationship based upon relation data stored in the account database for Steve s account. One or more service providers makes use of the ascertained one way public relationships to provide related content ads and or updates in conjunction with a plurality of services .

In particular webpages for interaction of the client with the services are configured based upon the ascertained one way public relationships block . The webpages are communicated to the client to enable the interaction block . For example a service provider by way of service manager module may configure webpages for communication to a client over a network . At least some of the webpages are configured based upon a one way public relationship such as the relationship that is ascertained between Steve and Foo Fighters in the preceding example. The webpages that are configured based on the one way public relationship may include pages output for interaction with a social networking service such as Steve s profile page and or Foo Fighters profile page. Some example webpages corresponding to a social networking service are depicted in and and discussed just below.

In the example of the webpage within the user interface is configured as a profile page corresponding to the user Steve from the preceding examples. A comparable page may also be configured as other webpages such as being a homepage of Steve s with a service provider a favorites page configured to present updates for items that Steve has selected as favorites a social network homepage or other suitable webpage provided via social networking service or other services . The example webpage includes a variety of portions that are configured based upon a one way public relationship between Steve and Foo Fighters. For example a status update appears in a what s new section of the example webpage . The status update may be input by Foo Fighters on their own profile page. Service provider may make use of relation data to configure the webpage to include the status update . Note that a comparable status update may appear on Foo Fighters profile page.

The what s new section of the example webpage also includes a fan entry that indicates that Steve has become a fan of Foo Fighters . A corresponding fan entry may also appear in home pages profile pages and or other pages configured for Steve s mutual friends. Since the relationship to Foo Fighters is one way however a comparable fan entry indicating that Steve has become a fan may not appear on Foo Fighters profile page. In other words status updates regarding Steve may not be pushed to Foo Fighters or to other one way relationships established by Steve. Status updates such as the example fan entry may appear in various webpages corresponding to Steve presented in the course of user interaction with a social networking service and or other services from one or more service providers .

Additional examples of portions of the webpage that may be configured based upon a one way public relationship include a suggestion list a list of favorites and an advertisement . The suggestion list includes one more suggestions that are based on one way public relationships. The suggestion list may enable service provider to suggest content based on items that a user has expressed interest in. For instance a fan of a band may also like music from similar bands. In the depicted example a music suggestion for The White Stripes may be based in part on Steve s one way public relationship to Foo Fighters. Likewise the example list of favorites includes the Foo Fighters in accordance with the one way public relationship. Further the example advertisement provides an offer to buy Foo Fighters tickets and may be selected in accordance with the one way public relationship. Thus illustrates some examples of portions of a webpage that may be configured based upon a one way public relationship.

In the example of the webpage within the user interface is configured as profile page corresponding to a book entitled Blink. represents one example of a webpage related to a public entity and or a social network object e.g. the book that may be configured to include portions based upon one way public relationships to the object. In particular a webpage for an object may be customized for an authenticated user to include portions corresponding to the user s social network and one way public relationships to the object. Examples of portions that may be customized include a fans portion an object details portion and an advertisement .

In the illustrated example the authenticated user is Steve. Accordingly the webpage for the book Blink includes portions corresponding to Steve s social network and the social network s relationships to the object. For instance relation module may be operable to indentify relationships of people in Steve s network to objects and configure webpages output to Steve based on the identified relationships. Relation module may make use of user accounts and relation data to understand the relationships that exist between users and objects.

In particular the fans portion shows friends of Steve who are also fans of the book. The fans portion shows that eight people in Steve s network are fans and also shows that six hundred and five other people are also fans. The fans portion is also illustrated as showing comments on the book from fans in Steve s network. Note that information related to Steve s network would not appear on a webpage for the book Blink that is presented to another user who is outside of Steve s network. Thus the fans portion may be configured to selectively include information regarding fans based upon one or more one way public relationships between users and the book Blink. 

Note also that the owner of the webpage e.g. publisher and or author may be able to use one way relationships to obtain anonymous data regarding fans of the object. This anonymous data enables the owner to at least track a number of fans of the object and include this information on the webpage . For example the object details portion is configured to list six hundred and thirteen fans of the book Blink. In addition fans may provide ratings for an object indicate that the object is a favorite and or rank objects one to another. For instance the example object details portion depicts a four star rating for the book and shows that eight people have indicated that this book is their favorite.

The anonymous data that is made available through one way relationships may also include demographic information such as ages location income education level and so forth. Such demographic information may be used by the owner and or service provider to better understand people who have expressed interest in corresponding objects available through social networking service.

The example advertisement of provides a promotion for books and a link to an online retailer. The advertisement may be selected in accordance with one way public relationships between Steve and the book Blink other books and or various other objects.

In at least some embodiments content and or ads for webpages served to Steve may be selected in accordance with the one way public relationships to objects established by people in Steve s network. This may be the case even when Steve has not expressed interest in the objects on his own. In this manner a service provider anticipates that Steve may like certain things based upon the interests of his social networking friends. Accordingly the service provider may configure webpages for Steve with content and or ads based on the one way public relationships of other people in Steve s network.

Although some of the examples discussed herein relate to webpages for social networking service webpages configured based on one way public relationships may also include pages output in conjunction with other services such as an email service an instant messaging service an Internet search service and or a productivity service to name a few. For example an internet home page corresponding to Steve may be configured to include content related to Foo Fighters based upon the one way public relationship.

In addition service provider may be configured to distribute content related to one way public relationships via various electronic communications including emails instant messaging text messages mobile phone messages voice mail and so forth. In this example the electronic communications are configured to include content ads and or updates corresponding to one way public relationships to an object. For instance Steve may receive an email from the service provider that includes a new posting made to the profile page of the Foo Fighters using the social networking service. This email may also include advertisements song lists promotions and or other content that is customized for Steve based on the one way public relationship to Foo Fighters. 

Having considered example techniques and user interface for one way public relationships consider now a discussion of an example devices that can be used to implement one or more embodiments.

Computing device includes one or more processors or processing units one or more memory and or storage components one or more input output I O devices and a bus that allows the various components and devices to communicate one to another. The bus represents one or more of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus can include wired and or wireless buses.

Memory storage component represents one or more computer storage media. Memory storage component may include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . Memory storage component may include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk and so forth .

One or more input output devices allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card and so forth.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software or program modules. Generally software includes routines programs objects components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media may include a variety of available medium or media that may be accessed by a computing device. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer readable storage media .

Software or program modules including the favorites module communication module service manager module and other program modules may be embodied as one or more instructions stored on computer readable storage media. Computing device may be configured to implement particular functions corresponding to the software or program modules stored on computer readable storage media. Such instructions may be executable by one or more articles of manufacture for example one or more computing device and or processors to implement techniques for one way public relationships as well as other techniques. Such techniques include but are not limited to the example procedures described herein. Thus computer readable storage media may be configured to store instructions that when executed by one or more devices described herein cause various techniques for one way public relationships.

Computer readable storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in a method or technology suitable for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer readable storage media can include but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage hard disks magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or another tangible media or article of manufacture suitable to store the desired information and which may be accessed by a computer.

Although the techniques for one way public relationships have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the techniques for one way public relationships.

