---

title: Mattress display
abstract: A mattress display includes at least one primary test bed including a head portion and a foot portion; at least one secondary test bed including a head portion and a foot portion; a wall, wherein the at least one primary and secondary test beds are in a spaced apart parallel relationship and positioned perpendicular with respect to the wall, wherein the at least one primary test bed is oriented such that the head portion is distally located from the wall and the foot portion  is proximal to the wall, and wherein the at least one secondary test bed is oriented such the head portion is proximal to the wall and the foot portion is distal to the wall; and a barrier disposed in close proximity to the head portion of the primary test bed, wherein the barrier is configured to provide an end user of the primary test bed with at least partial privacy, noise reduction, and/or light reduction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09003580&OS=09003580&RS=09003580
owner: Dreamwell, Ltd.
number: 09003580
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130603
---
This non provisional application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 642 511 filed on Jun. 4 2012 which is fully incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Mattresses are displayed in showrooms during the sale and distribution from the mattress manufacturer to the consumer. First of all mattress manufacturers may display mattresses in wholesale showrooms so that retailers can get an idea of how the mattress will look in their own retail showrooms. In retail showrooms display mattresses are arranged on the retail floor so that the prospective purchaser can peruse the various types of mattresses offered by that retailer. In each situation marketing and or technical features of the mattresses are communicated to the prospective purchaser via signage labels or a personal communication between the sales representative and the prospective purchaser. A prospective purchaser intending to purchase a new mattress may be intimidated by the process of testing a mattress in a public retail showroom.

Accordingly there is a need for a system that allows a consumer to be able to easily discern and view the technology used in a mattress.

Disclosed herein are mattress showroom displays for displaying a mattress assembly in a retail environment.

In one embodiment the mattress display comprises at least one primary test bed including a head portion and a foot portion at least one secondary test bed including a head portion and a foot portion a wall wherein the at least one primary and secondary test beds are in a spaced apart parallel relationship and positioned perpendicular with respect to the wall wherein the at least one primary test bed is oriented such that the head portion is distally located from the wall and the foot portion is proximal to the wall and wherein the at least one secondary test bed is oriented such the head portion is proximal to the wall and the foot portion is distal to the wall and a barrier disposed in close proximity to the head portion of the primary test bed wherein the barrier is configured to provide an end user of the primary test bed with at least partial privacy noise reduction and or light reduction.

The disclosure may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description of the various features of the disclosure and the examples included therein.

The primary test bed is perpendicularly positioned to the wall such that the head portion is distally located from the wall and the foot portion is proximal to the wall. The head portion is generally defined as the portion wherein an end user rests its head when prone on the test bed and can be readily determined by the presence of pillows and or an envelope opening of the bed sheet comforter or the like disposed on the bed. The foot portion is generally defined as the portion wherein an end user rests its feet when prone on the test bed. A foot protector may be disposed on the test beds at the foot portion to protect the underlying mattress during use as a display.

The secondary beds are disposed in a spaced apart parallel relationship to the primary test bed and are positioned such that the head portions are proximal to the wall and the foot portion is distal to the wall .

The mattress showroom display further includes a barrier disposed in close proximity to the head portion of the primary bed . In one embodiment the barrier is centrally positioned relative to the head portion .

In one embodiment the barrier is configured to provide at least partial privacy noise reduction light reduction and or the like to the end user of the primary test bed from the external environment which is often a store convention center manufacturer test center and the like where there are typically potential customers sales representatives and the like moving about. In one embodiment the barrier includes a curvilinear shape. However it should be apparent that any shape is suitable so long as it is configured to provide at least partial privacy to an end user resting its head at the head portion of the primary test bed . As used herein the term at least partial privacy is intended to mean that an end user resting its head at the head portion has its head at least partially shielded from the environment e.g. foot traffic lighting noise and the like directly in front of the primary test bed .

In the illustrated embodiment the barrier includes a base portion that is seated on a supporting surface and further includes an elongated section extending from the base portion and terminating at a height above the planar top surface of a mattress. In one embodiment the elongated section extending from the base portion terminates at a height of about 36 inches or less above the planar top surface of a mattress. In other embodiments the elongated section extending from the base portion terminates at a height of about 24 inches or less above the planar top surface of a mattress. In still other embodiments the elongated section extending from the base portion and terminating at a height of about 12 inches or less above the planar top surface of a mattress. The width of the barrier is not intended to be limited and will generally depend on the intended use. In one embodiment the width is greater than the approximate diameter of an end user s head e.g. greater than about 6 inches. In other embodiments the barrier width is greater than about 12 inches and in still other embodiments the barrier width is greater than 24 inches. In most applications the barrier width will be less than or equal to a width of the test bed which can vary depending on the bed size e.g. full queen king and the like. In some applications the barrier width may be greater than the width of the test bed. The supporting surface may include the floor of the showroom or may be the mattress assembly itself. For example the barrier may be affixed to the mattress foundation.

In the embodiment shown the barrier has a curvilinear shape wherein the curve is generally oriented towards the end user of the primary test bed . However the shape and barrier dimensions are not intended to be limited to any particular shape and or dimensions. Likewise the barrier can be of unitary construction or multi piece construction. The barrier advantageously provides privacy and sound protection to an end user lying prone on the primary test bed from pedestrian traffic as well as the environmental conditions in which the mattress display is employed e.g. light sound and the like. This barrier can also be used to project lighting images video and or project sound towards the end user and or to the pedestrians passing by the mattress display. As shown the barrier includes indicia of the BEAUTYREST trademark.

As previously discussed the wall can be removable as well as part of a permanent fixture e.g. a building wall. In the embodiment shown the length of the wall is effective to accommodate the number of beds i.e. primary and secondary test beds so that each bed perpendicularly extends from the wall. In other embodiments the length of the wall is about the width of the primary test bed. The wall like the barrier can be used to incorporate any form of media including but not limited to stationary pictures video sound and the like. Similarly the wall and or barrier can be configured to provide ambient lighting.

By way of example the wall and or the barrier can display selectively changeable product information to a customer considering a mattress. As mattress products in the showroom change or marketing programs change product information may be developed and displayed via a media display device integrated into the wall and or barrier on a corresponding mattress foot protector and or pillows respectively. In other embodiments more than one media display device may be associated with the wall and or barrier and or the test beds and ancillaries thereof.

The media display device can be in electronic communication with a programmable product information source to present selectively changeable product information to the customer. The programmable product information source can present differing information over the same display device. For example the display device can be programmed to show and or describe one type of information then moved to a different mattress and be reprogrammed to properly show and or describe that mattress. The programmable product information source can also change the information periodically to present differing text or media about the same mattress to the customer as he she is inspecting or approaching the mattress. Although not shown in the figures the media display device can also play audio signals coordinated with displayed product information via an audio source. The audio source may be played through speakers in the media display or a separate receiver in the showroom or coupled to the wall and or barrier. In other embodiments a sensor not shown in the mattress display activates the media display when a person approaches the mattress to attract his her attention.

The mattress display may be used with any type of mattress and mattress and or bedding component. For example twin twin XL full queen king the California king are exemplary sized mattresses and associated headboards.

Advantageously the mattress display provides the end user of the primary test bed with a level of privacy not previously available in manufacturer and or retail showrooms.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

