---

title: Mobile communication device profound identity brokering framework
abstract: A mobile communication device. The device comprises a cellular radio transceiver, a processor, and a memory integral with the device, wherein the memory is apportioned into a plurality of partitions. The device further comprises a first wireless communication identity stored in a first partition of the memory and a second wireless communication identity stored in a second partition of the memory, wherein the second wireless communication identity is different from the first wireless communication identity. The device further comprises an application stored in the memory that, when executed by the processor, detects a triggering event and in response to the triggering event selects one of the wireless communication identities to be an active communication identity of the device, wherein a wireless communication identity comprises a network access identity and a list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09560519&OS=09560519&RS=09560519
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09560519
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130606
---
Mobile communication devices may be configured for operating in different ways or in different network conditions by storing settings or values or files in the device. Some of the stored settings may be one or more kinds of roaming lists e.g. a priority ordered list of wireless systems to select and attempt to attach a wireless link to. Mobile communication devices may be used by a user as a business device for example in support of his role as an employee of a corporation as a personal communication device for example in support of his role as a private individual. Mobile communication devices may be configured or provisioned to perform machine to machine communication transactions for example by a radio communication session between the mobile communication device and a door scanner such as to gain access to an office building or to a hotel room.

In an embodiment a method of establishing a wireless communication link by a mobile communication device is disclosed. The method comprises storing a first wireless communication identity in a first partition of a memory of the mobile communication device wherein the first wireless communication identity comprises a first network access identity associated with a first country a first list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a first rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the first list and a table of device rules. The method further comprises storing a second wireless communication identity in a second partition of the memory wherein the second wireless communication identity comprises a second network access identity associated with a second country a second list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a second rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the second list and a table of device rules wherein at least the first network access identity is different from the second network access identity wherein only a single wireless communication identity is active on the device at one time and wherein the device establishes a wireless communication link based on an active wireless communication identity. The method further comprises determining a country in which the device is located and based on the country one of deactivating the first wireless communication identity and activating the second wireless communication identity or deactivating the second wireless communication identity and activating the first wireless communication identity.

In another embodiment a mobile communication device is disclosed. The mobile communication device comprises a cellular radio transceiver a processor and a non transitory memory integral with the mobile communication device wherein the memory is apportioned into a plurality of partitions. The device further comprises a first wireless communication identity stored in a first partition of the memory wherein a wireless communication identity comprises a network access identity a list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the list and a table of device rules. The device further comprises a second wireless communication identity stored in a second partition of the memory wherein the second wireless communication identity is different from the first wireless communication identity. The device further comprises an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor detects a triggering event and in response to the triggering event selects one of the wireless communication identities stored in the partitions of the memory to be an active communication identity of the mobile communication device where the mobile communication conducts wireless communication via the cellular radio transceiver based on the active communication identity.

In an embodiment a method of establishing a wireless communication link by a mobile communication device is disclosed. The method comprises storing a first wireless communication identity in a first partition of a memory of the mobile communication device wherein the first wireless communication identity comprises a first network access identity a first list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a first rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the first list and a table of device rules. The method further comprises storing a second wireless communication identity in a second partition of the memory wherein the second wireless communication identity comprises a second network access identity a second list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a second rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the second list and a table of device rules wherein at least the first wireless communication identity is different from the second wireless communication identity wherein only a single wireless communication identity is active on the device at one time and wherein the device establishes a wireless communication link based on an active wireless communication identity. The method further comprises receiving a trigger signal and based on the trigger signal one of deactivating the first wireless communication identity and activating the second wireless communication identity or deactivating the second wireless communication identity and activating the first wireless communication identity.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure teaches a wireless communication identity brokering framework. A wireless communication identity is defined further hereinafter but for a concise overview this identity may be considered to comprise a network access identity and wireless communication operational run time parameters. This wireless communication identity provides a mobile communication device such as a mobile phone not just the authorization credentials to establish a wireless link to a base transceiver station and or cell tower but also configures the device to engage in wireless communication efficiently. While formerly a single wireless communication identity may have been configured into a mobile communication device new functionality and advantages may be obtained by configuring the mobile communication device to assume a number of different wireless communication identities.

Wireless communication identities may be activated to promote different user activities. For example a first wireless communication identity may promote the work activity of the user for example as an employee of a corporation and a second wireless communication identity may promote the private life of the user for example as a husband father and or private person. A third wireless communication identity may promote convenience during a stay at a hotel for example enabling electronic entry to a hotel room and electronic authorization of purchasing products from a vending machine or a mini fridge and transferring the cost to the hotel bill. A plurality of different wireless communication identities may promote testing different operational modes of the mobile communication device at an original equipment manufacturer OEM factory and or at a wireless service provider test facility. By changing the wireless communication identity of the mobile communication device the device can be tested as a different device in some respects.

In an embodiment at least some of the wireless communication identities are stored in distinct independently accessed portions of memory in the mobile communication device. For example a trusted security zone may be established having a plurality of sub zones or partitions wherein access to each sub zone or partition is provided based on a sub key associated with the particular sub zone or partition each sub zone or partition associated with a different and unrelated sub key. In this case it may be said that a wireless communication identity stored in a first sub zone cannot see or interact with a different wireless communication identity stored in a second sub zone or vice versa. This behavior may provide utility when competitors desire to provide confidential information to the mobile communication device for use in accessing or invoking their services as the competitors may desire to keep their wireless communication identities confidential from each other.

In an embodiment two or more of the partitions of the trusted security zone or distinct independently accessed portions of memory may be abstracted as providing the functionality of virtual subscriber identity modules SIMs such as are used in some mobile phones to provide an identity to the mobile phone and to provide credentials for accessing a radio access network. In an embodiment the distinctly independently accessed portions or memory may be located on a removable SIM card or on a removable memory card for example a removable secure data SD card. In an embodiment the distinctly independently accessed portions of memory may be located in a secure element SE card of chip in the mobile communication device. It is understood that the wireless communication identities may be stored in the distinct independently accessed portions of memory in a removable SIM card in a removable memory card or in a secure element.

A wireless communication identity broker may provide for building and transmitting wireless communication identities associated with a plurality of different and possibly unrelated entities to the mobile communication device. The identity broker may be a neutral party unassociated with any of the parties that provide wireless communication identities. This neutrality may increase the participation and or the confidence of competing enterprises. Increased participation by enterprises may improve the utility and value of the wireless communication identity brokering framework.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. For more details on establishing trusted end to end communication links relying on hardware assisted security see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a mobile communication device a base transceiver station BTS a network a wireless identity broker hereinafter an ID broker a first server a second server and a third server . In some contexts the base transceiver station may be referred to as a cell tower. The network may comprise one or more private communication networks one or more public communication networks or a combination thereof. The ID broker and the servers may be implemented as computer systems. Computer systems are described further hereinafter. The mobile communication device may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player or a wireless communication enabled portable computer such as a laptop computer a notebook computer or a tablet computer.

In an embodiment the mobile communication device comprises a cellular radio transceiver a processor and a memory . It is understood that the processor may be implemented as one processor chip or by a plurality of processor chips. In an embodiment the processor may comprise a plurality of different processor chips for example two or more of a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP a graphics processor unit GPU an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA and or a complex programmable logic device CPLD . The memory may be implemented as a single memory chip or as a plurality of memory chips. In an embodiment the memory may comprise a plurality of different types of memory chips. An application is stored in the memory and executed by the processor to store and activate wireless communication identities based on triggering events and or based on user selection.

In an embodiment the memory comprises a trusted security zone . The trusted security zone may comprise a plurality of trusted security zone partitions for example a first trusted security zone partition a second trusted security zone partition and a third trusted security zone partition . It is understood that the trusted security zone may comprise any number of trusted security zone partitions either more than or fewer than three trusted security zone partitions. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be considered to comprise both an area of the memory e.g. the trusted security zone and a portion of the processor for example a separate trusted processor or a virtual processor as described further above. Access to the trusted security zone and or partitions of the trusted security zone may be mediated or controlled by a trusted application executing in the processor portion of the trusted security zone.

Access to the trusted security zone may be contingent on providing a master trusted security zone key for example access to configure or add trusted security zone partitions. Access to configured trusted security zone partitions may be authorized by presenting a sub zone key or a trusted security zone partition key associated with the subject trusted security zone partition. Said in other words a first sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the first trusted security zone partition a second sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the second trusted security zone partition and a third sub zone key may be used to authorize access to the third trusted security zone partition . The first sub zone key the second sub zone key and the third sub zone key may each be different from each other.

In an embodiment the first trusted security zone partition may store a first wireless communication identity the second trusted security zone partition may store a second wireless communication identity and the third trusted security zone partition may store a third wireless communication identity . The wireless communication identities may be referred to as the first ID the second ID and the third ID . While the description below is written based on an implementation using the trusted security zone it is understood that the teachings of the present disclosure may also be used for wireless communication identities stored in partitions or in portions of memory outside of a trusted security zone.

The cellular radio transceiver may establish a wireless communication link with the base transceiver station according to a code division multiple access CDMA wireless communication protocol a global system for mobile communications GSM wireless communication protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless communication protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless communication protocol or another cellular wireless communication protocol. While illustrates a single mobile communication device and a single base transceiver station it is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile communication devices and any number of base transceiver stations . The base transceiver station may provide access to the mobile communication device to the network and there through to the ID broker and the servers .

The application executes rules or functions to determine what wireless communication identity is active for conducting wireless communications. The mobile communication device may present a user interface on a display that provides controls for a user to select from among the IDs and which wireless communication identity the application is to make active on the mobile communication device . Additionally the application may monitor operational conditions and or environmental conditions to determine triggering events and may select an ID to make active based on the triggering events. Triggering events may comprise user inputs for example a user input in a user interface of the mobile communication device that selects an ID .

The application may activate an ID based on a current location of the mobile communication device for example a location that corresponds to a work location or employer location a private residence location a hotel location or other location. The application may provide a user interface promoting user definition of mapping or association of locations to IDs . The application may activate an ID based on time and a schedule for example a work schedule. The application may provide a user interface promoting user definition of the schedule for activating IDs . The application may activate an ID based on analyzing a radio signal incident upon the mobile communication device for example a WiFi signal received from a hotel hot spot or a cellular communication signal received from a picocell and or a micro cellular base station.

When the application activates a different wireless communication identity the application may recalculate or redetermine operational run time parameters of the mobile communication device based on the ID and store these operational run time parameters in the memory and or one or more registers of the processor . After recalculating and storing the operational run time parameters the application may cause a radio modem of the cellular radio transceiver to reset thereby bringing the recalculated operational run time parameters into effect. It is understood that resetting a radio modem may not cause a user partition of the memory to be erased and or user data to be lost as may sometimes be the case if a full device reset were performed.

While in the application is illustrated as outside of the trusted security zone in an embodiment the application may be stored in the trusted security zone and or invoke functions provided by instructions stored in and or executing within the trusted security zone . In an embodiment the application may read the information associated with the active wireless communication identity e.g. read one of the IDs for example by invoking a mediating access function that executes and or is stored in the trusted security zone and store this information in an area of memory that is used to conduct wireless communications. In an embodiment the active wireless communication identity may be stored in a plurality of different locations in the memory possibly in non contiguous areas of the memory .

The wireless communication identity comprises information that promotes conducting wireless communications. The wireless communication identity comprises a network access identity. The network access identity may take any form but in an embodiment the network access identity comprises a code that identifies a country and a code that identifies a wireless network and or a wireless service provider. For example in a code division multiple access CDMA implementation the network access identity may comprise a mobile network code MNC and a mobile country code MCC . Alternatively in a long term evolution LTE implementation the network access identity may comprise a public land mobile network identity PLMN ID that comprises a country code and a network code. The network access identity may be used to authorize access of the mobile communication device to the wireless link provided by the base transceiver station and or to the network .

The wireless communication identity further comprises information that may be used to generate operational run time parameters for wireless communication. The information may comprise one or more lists of wireless communication networks that the mobile communication device is authorized to attach to a rule set for prioritizing among the networks identified in the one or more lists and one or more tables of device rules.

The lists of wireless communication networks that the mobile communication device is authorized to attach to may depend on the wireless communication protocol used by the mobile communication device to establish a wireless link to the base transceiver station . Said in another way the particular lists the number of lists and the names of lists of wireless communication networks may be different for mobile communication devices communicating according to different wireless communication protocols. The lists of wireless communication networks may comprise one or more of a PRL a PLMN list an OPLMN list an EHPLMN list an HPLMN list an MSPL table and an MLPL table.

PRL stands for a preferred roaming list. The PRL may comprise information used in network and or system selection and acquisition. The PRL may organize the information in prioritized order for example defining what systems and or service provider identities to scan and in what order to obtain radio access. PLMN stands for public land mobile network. The PLMN list may comprise a list of public land mobile networks and or other lists such as an EHPLMN list or an OPLMN list. The HPLMN list is a home PLMN file that may comprise a list of networks or communication systems identified by mobile country code MCC . EHPLMN stands for an equivalent home PLMN. The EHPLMN list may comprise records of networks or communication systems identified by Mobile Country Code MCC . OPLMN stands for operator controlled PLMN. The OPLMN list may comprise records of networks or communication systems identified by Mobile Network Code MNC . MSPL stands for MMSS multi mode system selection System Priority List. The MSPL table may be used with another system selection priority list e.g. PLMN list OPLMN list HPLMN list EHPLMN list and the like . MLPL stands for MMSS Location Associated Priority List. The MLPL table may enable scaling a range of entries of a system selection priority list e.g. PLMN list OPLMN list HPLMN list EHPLMN list and the like .

These lists and or tables may be said to implement define and or describe a coverage map. In an embodiment the MSPL and the MLPL lists or tables may provide geocoding and preference information and may promote mapping between 3GPP and 3GPP2 protocols. The tables of device rules may comprise a band support table and a technology order table. The band support table may identify ranges of radio frequency that the mobile communication device should scan for attaching to the radio access network RAN for example to attach to the base transceiver station . In an embodiment the six lists and the two tables may be compiled and or reformatted to efficiently combine the content as a list or table at run time on the mobile communication device for example on the event of a modem reset.

In an embodiment the IDs may comprise addresses of alternative domain name server DNS servers media gateways ports and or routing information. The IDs may share information in common but do differ by at least one parameter value. One or more of the IDs may be stored in a single memory chip or a plurality of memory chips. One or more of the IDs may be stored in different virtual memories or in different segments of memory that are managed as separate virtual memories by an operating system and or by a virtualization application on the mobile communication device . One or more of the IDs may be stored in a removable memory card such as a secure digital SD card.

The IDs may be sourced from different sources for example the first ID may be sourced or provided by the first server the second ID may be sourced by the second server and the third ID may be sourced by the third server . Alternatively two or more IDs may be sourced from a single server. The ID broker may interwork with the severs to mediate the transport of the subject ID to the mobile communication device . In an embodiment the ID broker may arrange transport of the subject ID to the trusted security zone partition of the mobile communication device over a trusted end to end communication link. For more details on establishing trusted end to end communication links relying on hardware assisted security see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which was incorporated by reference above. In some contexts the ID broker may be said to implement multi identity management brokering as a network service.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a first wireless communication identity is stored in a first partition of a memory of the mobile communication device wherein the first wireless communication identity comprises a first network access identity associated with a first country a first list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a first rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the first list and a table of device rules. For example the first ID is stored in the first trusted security zone partition of the mobile communication device .

At block a second wireless communication identity is stored in a second partition of the memory wherein the second wireless communication identity comprises a second network access identity associated with a second country a second list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a second rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the first list and a table of device rules. The first network access identity is different from the second network access identity and only a single wireless communication identity is active on the device at one time. The device is configured to establish a wireless communication link based on an active wireless communication identity. For example the second ID is stored in the second trusted security zone partition of the mobile communication device .

At block a country in which the device is located is determined. At block based on the country one of deactivate the first wireless communication identity and activate the second wireless communication identity or deactivate the second wireless communication identity and activate the first wireless communication identity.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a first wireless communication identity is stored in a first partition of a memory of the mobile communication device wherein the first wireless communication identity comprises a first network access identity a first list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a first rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the first list and a table of device rules. For example the first ID is stored in the first trusted security zone partition of the mobile communication device .

At block a second wireless communication identity is stored in a second partition of the memory wherein the second wireless communication identity comprises a second network access identity a second list of wireless communication systems to which the device is authorized to attach a second rule set for prioritizing among the wireless communication systems identified in the first list and a table of device rules. At least the first wireless communication identity is different from the second wireless communication identity and only a single wireless communication identity is active on the device at one time. The device is configured to establish a wireless communication link based on an active wireless communication identity. For example the second ID is stored in the second trusted security zone partition of the mobile communication device .

At block receive a trigger signal. For example the application receives a trigger signal transmitted to the mobile communication device from the ID broker via the network and the base transceiver station . Alternatively a trigger signal may be input into a user interface of the mobile communication device for example a user may select an ID presented on a display of the mobile communication device . Alternatively the application or another application executing on the mobile communication device generates the trigger signal itself based on events experienced by the mobile communication device . Events experienced by the mobile communication device may be related to a clock maintained by the mobile communication device passing a scheduled time. Events experienced by the mobile communication device may be related to a changed location of the mobile communication device for example the location of the mobile communication device entering or leaving a circumscribed area for example a circumscribed area associated with a work location. A circumscribed area may be defined in some contexts as an area within a predefined radius of a geographical coordinate for example a global positioning system coordinate. A work location may be defined as an area within 400 feet of a central point of the work location within 800 feet of the central point of the work location or some other predefined radius. At block based on the trigger signal one of deactivate the first wireless communication identity and activate the second wireless communication identity or deactivate the second wireless communication identity and activate the first wireless communication identity.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

