---

title: System and apparatus for financial education, entrepreneurship education and life management
abstract: An apparatus for financial education, entrepreneurship education and life management. The apparatus can include a housing, at least one storage compartment received within the housing and including an interior cavity, a coin acceptor assembly adapted to receive a coin, determine the denomination of the coin, and deposit the coin into the storage compartment, electronic circuitry communicatively coupled to the coin acceptor assembly, a display device communicatively coupled to the electronic circuitry, at least one input device communicatively coupled to the electronic circuitry, wherein the electronic circuitry includes at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium storing executable instructions and a processor adapted to execute the instructions, wherein the instructions are adapted to display a graphic interface on the display device, and to receive input from a user via the at least one input device, so as to allow the user to manage a user account, the user account including a monetary balance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501940&OS=09501940&RS=09501940
owner: 
number: 09501940
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130715
---
Having a well developed sense of fiscal responsibility and financial literacy is crucial to life in a market based economy. Individuals who develop positive financial habits are better equipped to make choices that lead to an improved financial situation. Such choices can include smart spending savings investment avoiding debt and so forth.

Even though an early start to developing financial literacy is crucial for developing good financial habits financial literacy is rarely taught in the educational system. Parents who wish to teach financial literacy to their children typically have to develop their own plans and find educational material that is age appropriate for the children. Additionally it may be difficult to present such subjects to younger children who may not find the subject matter entertaining.

Furthermore nurturing tomorrow s leaders is an essential tool to help grow good local jobs and diversify local economies making them more resilient in the face of change. Entrepreneurship skills are essential in the 21st century because they are not only required to develop future entrepreneurs but are also beneficial for existing jobs that require employees to be entrepreneurial as well. While the key concepts of entrepreneurship and business can be taught at any time during a person s life the attitudes and values associated with becoming a successful entrepreneur are more likely to develop if they are explored and nurtured at a young age. Therefore children are more likely to develop skills that can help them thrive and succeed in life both professionally as well as personally if they are exposed to entrepreneurship and an entrepreneurial business environment at a young age.

Additionally the 21century is marked by ever increasing complexities and challenges that requires children to manage their lives in a responsible organized and efficient way. Children also live in an era of technology driven environments where there is an overflow of information that often requires rapid adjustments to life s responsibilities. It is therefore crucial for today s children to develop good core life managerial and organizational skills at a young age so as to prepare them to lead successful and prosperous lives as adults.

A way to provide age appropriate financial business and entrepreneurship education to children of various ages in an entertaining and life applicable manner is therefore desired. A way to provide age appropriate life management tools and systems to children of various ages in an entertaining and life applicable manner is also desired.

According to at least one exemplary embodiment an apparatus for financial education entrepreneurship education and life management is disclosed. The apparatus can include a housing at least one storage compartment received within the housing and including an interior cavity a coin acceptor assembly adapted to receive a coin determine the denomination of the coin and deposit the coin into the storage compartment electronic circuitry communicatively coupled to the coin acceptor assembly a display device communicatively coupled to the electronic circuitry at least one input device communicatively coupled to the electronic circuitry wherein the electronic circuitry includes at least one non transitory computer readable medium storing executable instructions and a processor adapted to execute the instructions wherein the instructions are adapted to display a graphic interface on the display device and to receive input from a user via the at least one input device so as to allow the user to manage a user account the user account including a monetary balance.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of exemplary embodiments of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention. Further to facilitate an understanding of the description discussion of several terms used herein follows.

As used herein the word exemplary means serving as an example instance or illustration. The embodiments described herein are not limiting but rather are exemplary only. It should be understood that the described embodiment are not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Moreover the terms embodiments of the invention embodiments or invention do not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many of the embodiments described herein are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It should be recognized by those skilled in the art that the various sequence of actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or by program instructions executed by at least one processor. Additionally the sequence of actions described herein can be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium such that execution of the sequence of actions enables the processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the present invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example a computer configured to perform the described action.

Referring to and according to at least one exemplary embodiment a financial education entrepreneurship education and life management apparatus is disclosed. The financial education entrepreneurship education and life management apparatus can include a housing coverable by a cap and including at least one storage compartment . The housing may be coupleable to a base which can contain a plurality of electronic components for the operation of apparatus . The base can be adapted to be placed on a tabletop or similar surface or to be coupled to a plurality of legs so as to allow apparatus to be elevated above a floor or a similar surface.

Housing can enclose a cavity into which a plurality of storage compartments may be placed. In an exemplary embodiment the number of storage compartments that may be disposed inside housing may range from one to five compartments. Furthermore in the exemplary embodiment housing may have a cylindrical shape. Accordingly each storage compartment may be shaped as a sector of the cylinder such that the fraction of housing occupied by each compartment is the inverse of the number of compartments disposed within housing . shows top plan views of the various configurations of compartments within housing . The amount of compartments can be varied according to the amount of users registered with a particular apparatus . Thus in the exemplary embodiment apparatus may accommodate between one and five registered users.

Each compartment can include a plurality of side walls a closed bottom end and an open top end . Each compartment may further include at least one lip disposed at the open top end thereof. The lip may be coupled to a side wall and project horizontally therefrom into the interior of the compartment . The lip can facilitate the removal of compartment from cavity for example by allowing the user to place their finger or hand under the lip and lift the compartment out of housing .

Each compartment may be used to store currency therein for example coin currency. Each compartment may further include at least one pocket which may be coupled to a side wall on the interior side thereof and proximate the top end of compartment . Pocket may be adapted to store paper currency as well as other paper based instruments such as checks IOU notes and the like.

Housing and compartments may be made from any desired material. In one exemplary embodiment housing and compartments may be made from a translucent plastic allowing users of apparatus to view the contents of compartments . Compartments may be made from a colored translucent plastic with each compartment being used with apparatus having a different color thereby enabling each user to easily identify their particular compartment and to view the contents thereof.

A cap may be removably coupled to housing in any desired manner for example by threaded engagement friction fit or the like. In some exemplary embodiments the cap may be swivelably coupled to housing via a swivel hinge assembly coupled to the upper edge of housing and the lower edge of cap . The cap may be swiveled to the side of housing or may be otherwise removed so as to expose the interior cavity and to allow access to storage compartments thereby allowing the user to place or withdraw currency or other financial instruments to or from the compartments.

Additionally cap can include a coin acceptor assembly . The coin acceptor assembly may be mounted in a housing which may be coupled to cap and disposed in the interior of cap . Coin acceptor assembly can include a coin slot accessible from the exterior of cap and a plurality of coin distribution channels as shown in . Each coin distribution channel can correspond to a particular compartment . The coin acceptor assembly can further be adapted to identify the denominations and quantities of the coin currency deposited therein. The coin acceptor assembly may be any coin acceptor assembly known in the art that enables apparatus to function as described herein. Furthermore the coin acceptor assembly may be adapted to direct a coin from slot to a selected coin distribution channel of the plurality of coin distribution channels . This may be accomplished by flaps baffles pins or any structures known in the art that enable apparatus to function as described herein.

Cap can further include a camera and a motion sensor . Both camera and motion sensor can be positioned such that they face a user of apparatus when cap is in a closed configuration. Camera and motion sensor may further have a wide angle viewing or detection range. The camera and motion sensor may be provided using any known components that enable apparatus to function as described herein.

In some exemplary embodiments housing may be shaped as a triangular prism. In such an embodiment housing may include three compartments while cap may include three coin acceptor assemblies . Each coin acceptor assembly can correspond to a particular compartment and can include a coin slot and a single coin channel . In further exemplary embodiments housing may be provided in any desired shape that enables apparatus to function as described herein.

Detachably coupled to the lower end of housing may be a base . The detachable coupling between housing and base may be effected in any known manner. Disposed on a bottom surface of base may be a plurality of footpads which may facilitate supporting apparatus on a surface such as a table or desk top. Footpads may be formed from any suitable material such as rubber. A stand may further be detachably coupleable to a bottom surface of base . Stand may include a plurality of telescoping legs and can facilitate supporting apparatus on a surface such as a floor as well as positioning apparatus at a desired height above the surface.

Disposed within base can be the electronic circuitry and hardware components of apparatus including a circuit board and a bus or other communicating mechanism for communicating information as shown in . The printed circuit board may be used to mechanically support and electrically connect the electronic hardware components of apparatus and may be secured to base by a fastener or an adhesive. Communicatively coupled to circuit board and bus may be a processor for processing information main memory such as random access memory or other dynamic storage device coupled to the bus for storing information at least one non transitory computer readable storage medium which may be one or more of a hard drive a flash based drive and read only memory. The storage medium may store software for executing the various processes of apparatus as well as at least one database containing user data and multimedia data for use with software .

Communicatively coupled to circuit board may further be a display controller and graphics processing unit such as a video card at least one wired communications interface such as an Ethernet port at least one wireless communication interface for example an 802.11 communications interface a Bluetooth communications interface or the like. Interfaces and may be used to connect apparatus to a local area network to another computing device or to the Internet. Furthermore base can include at least one communication adapter which may be one or more of a USB adapter Lightning adapter a serial or parallel adapter or any other known communications adapter that may be used to connect apparatus to other computing devices.

A sound processing unit may be communicatively coupled to circuit board and to speakers disposed within base . Speakers may emit audio via apertures provided in base . For example micro apertures may be provided in the upper surface of base . Additionally a microphone may be communicatively coupled to circuit board and may be disposed on base in a location facing the user.

A heat sink and cooling fan may further be disposed within base so as to provide cooling to the hardware components of apparatus . A plurality of apertures such as microapertures slits or other any other openings may be provided in the enclosure of base for example on the sides of base so as to allow heat exchange between the hardware components and the external environment.

Graphics processing unit may be communicatively coupled to display which may be disposed above and coupled to base and positioned facing a user of apparatus . Display may be for example a thin profile display such as an LCD or an OLED display. Display may further be a touch screen display. Base can further include a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or trackpad. Keyboard may be positioned facing the user and below display . Keyboard may further be retractable into a cavity defined within base for receiving the keyboard.

The camera motion sensor and coin acceptor assembly can also be communicatively coupled to circuit board . The coin acceptor assembly can be in communication with software . For example the coin acceptor assembly may be controlled by processor and software so as to direct the deposited coins into a particular coin distribution channel . Furthermore the coin acceptor assembly may communicate to software the denominations and quantities of the coins deposited via the coin acceptor assembly.

The financial education entrepreneurship education and life management system can include a plurality of accounts that are associated with a particular financial management education apparatus . Such accounts can include user accounts and administrator accounts . A user account can be created for each user of apparatus and associated with a specific container of apparatus . Administrator accounts can be created for any desired administrator of a particular apparatus such as parents guardians and other household adults. The administrator accounts can have greater permissions than and diverse functionality from user accounts as described further below. The administrator accounts can further define access rights and privileges for user accounts on a common apparatus as well as provide incentives for the user accounts to perform desired activities on apparatus and software as described further below. Both user accounts and administrator accounts can log into software via the interfaces thereof. Data related to user accounts and administrator accounts may be stored on database of apparatus .

Financial education entrepreneurship education and life management system can further include at least one server . Server may be communicatively coupled to software of apparatus via a wide area network such as the internet. Server may include a non transitory computer readable medium on which at least one database may be stored. Each apparatus may be registered with server and data related thereto may be stored or mirrored on database . Additionally data related to user accounts and administrator accounts associated with each registered apparatus may also be stored or mirrored on database .

Both users and administrators can log into server so as to access their accounts and the data related thereto as well as to manage aspects and configurations of apparatus . Logging into server may be accomplished directly via apparatus and software or remotely without utilizing apparatus . Remote login may be accomplished for example via a web interface that may be accessed by any computing device or via a custom application for a mobile device . Thus server can offer a cloud based storage system for data relating to each apparatus and its accounts and data may be synced between the apparatus server web interface for a computing device and application for a mobile device .

System can further allow for registration of multiple affiliates . The affiliates may provide desired goods services and information to users and administrators of apparatus . Such affiliate accounts can include for example financial institutions such as commercial banks investment brokerage firms retail establishments prospective employers advisors consultants and educational institutions and so forth. The users and administrators of each apparatus can communicate with affiliates via corresponding utility applications provided as part of software of apparatus via the web interface for computing devices and via the application for mobile devices .

Software can include a plurality of software programs . Programs can include facial recognition software currency recognition software cartoonization software and interactive voice command software . Programs can further include a plurality of utility applications . The utility applications can allow for user interaction with various financial management entrepreneurship and life management features and other related features provided by apparatus . The applications can include Deposit Withdraw My Account My Banking My Investments My Shopping My Chores My Jobs My Barter Sales Exchange My Financial Planner My Business World My Crowdfunding My Homework My Life Points My Websites My Life Boards My Games My Private Advisor My financial Resources My Message Board My Chat Room My Money Facts Life Share and the Life Hub News Press.

Software can also facilitate the interoperability and interactivity of the money management and accounting systems as well as computations and visual graphic illustrations. Software can also facilitate interactivity and connectivity with affiliates such as retailers prospective employers educators educational institutions banking and investment brokerage firms and other third parties affiliates and partners. Software can further facilitate a variety of entertaining and engaging audio and visual programing features on a variety of screens through the utility applications including but not limited to welcome greetings on accessed screens salutations on accessed screens achieved savings goals product and service information date and time stamp on screens and variety of queries and information on accessed screens.

In some exemplary embodiments facial recognition software can utilize camera so as to provide functions and features that allow apparatus to interact with the user. For example if a user is positioned facing camera facial recognition software can recognize the user s facial features and direct software to display an interface for the particular user s account for example the user s home screen. A user can register their facial features or image with software for example during a set up phase or a later stage by accessing the appropriate menus via the graphic user interface for software .

In some exemplary embodiments facial recognition software can facilitate directing coin acceptor assembly to pivot or switch to an orientation that allows coins deposited through slot to be directed to the coin distribution channel that corresponds to the user s particular compartment .

Additionally in some exemplary embodiments facial recognition software can recognize a user and can facilitate directing software to display audio and visual content that is customized for the user based on the user s preferences age and any other desired criteria. The audio and visual content can include for example audio and visual welcome greetings animations and video sequences that welcome the user or provide entertaining educational or otherwise relevant information to the user.

In some exemplary embodiments currency recognition software can utilize camera so as to allow the user to deposit paper currency into their account without manual value entry of the paper currency. For example a user may hold a paper currency note in front of camera for a specified period of time allowing currency recognition software to process image data from camera and to identify the denomination of the paper currency note. Software can then credit the user s account with the monetary value of the paper currency. Subsequently audio and visual prompts or instructions can be emitted from the speakers and or displayed on display instructing the user to remove the cap and deposit the paper currency in the user s particular compartment .

In some exemplary embodiments image cartoonization software can allow a user to convert their photographic images into digital cartoonized images thereby creating self images of the user. Such images may be used as a profile picture of the user may be incorporated into story lines and scenes in graphic or video sequences displayed by software . A plurality of cartoonized images may be associated with a user and may be stored in an image library managed by the user.

In some exemplary embodiments interactive voice command software can allow the user to interact with software via voice commands instead of physical data input devices.

Turning to exemplary interfaces of software as well as the various software applications for interacting with apparatus are disclosed. Software can include a graphic user interface GUI that can allow users and administrators to operate and interact with apparatus and applications by touching or clicking various widgets such as tiles buttons icons boxes entry boxes and pop up dialog windows. Users and administrators can interact with the interfaces of software via input devices such as a keyboard mouse or trackpad or via a touch screen display.

Users and administrators can log into their respective accounts via a login screen displayed for example at startup or after logout. The login screen can display all user accounts registered with software for example as colored image boxes on the login screen. The colored image boxes may be customized and personalized as desired by the user or administrator. Users may log in to software by selecting a corresponding box and entering a password. A separate administrator tile can allow administrators to log into software by entering the administrator username and password.

The GUI of software can also include a menu bar a tool box and a real time live streamer . Elements may be displayed throughout the various interfaces of software allowing the user convenient shortcuts to various features of the software.

The menu bar can include navigational tools in the form of drop down menus that allow the user to access and manage a variety of software and utility features functions settings and instructional information. The menu bar can include a plurality of options including Users Administrators Operations Personalization Utilities Security Mobile Software Hardware and Help.

The Users menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions and settings and information pertaining to users. The Users menu can include a plurality of options including About Users Profiles Preferences Personal Folder Notifications Alerts Archives Address Book and Access log. The Profiles menu option can also include a submenu with options relating to Hub Profiles Barter Sales Profile Jobs Profile Crowdfunding Profile Shopper Profile Messages Profile and Chat Room Profile.

The Administrators menu can allow an administrator to access and manage a variety of features functions and settings and information pertaining to administrators.

The Administrators menu can include a plurality of menu options including About Administrators Administrator Profile Parental Controls Notifications Alerts Life Points Chores Scheduler Private Advisor Usage History Mobile Settings and Master Access. The Parental Controls menu option can also include a submenu that includes Hub Restrictions Web Restrictions and Monitoring. The Life Points menu option can also include a submenu that includes Schedule and Conversion Rate. The Master Access menu option can also include a submenu that includes Deposits Withdrawals User Accounts Banking Investments Shopping Chores Jobs Barter Sales Exchange Financial Planner Business World Crowdfunding Homework Life Points Websites Life Boards Games Private Advisor Financial Resources Message Board Chat Room and Money Facts.

The Operations menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions settings and information pertaining to operations of apparatus . The Operations menu option can include a plurality of menus including About Operations Money Chambers Sleep Settings Deposit Settings Withdrawal Settings Language Settings and Privacy Settings.

The Personalization menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions settings and information pertaining to personalization of a user s account. The Personalization menu can include a plurality of menu options pertaining to About Personalization Personalization Settings Photos Cartoonization Backgrounds Text Textures and Art Image Library. The Photos menu option also incorporates a submenu that includes Hub Photos and Mobile Photos.

The Utilities menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions settings and information pertaining to the various utilities of software . The Utilities menu can include a plurality of options including About Utilities Tool Box Live Streamer Settings Email Activation Email Settings and Email Access. The Security menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions settings and information pertaining to security of the user s account.

The Security menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions and information pertaining to security features of software . The Security menu can include a plurality of options including About Security User Password and Administrator Password. The Administrator Password menu option also incorporates a second tier drop down menu that includes Universal Access Password.

The Mobile menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions settings and information pertaining to applications for mobile devices which can be used to access a user s account for example on server . The Mobile menu can include a plurality of options including About Mobile Mobile Activation Mobile Notifications Alerts and Mobile Downloads.

The Software menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions settings and information pertaining to the software of apparatus . The Software menu can include a plurality of options including About Software Content Registration Content Downloads Animations Registration Animation Downloads Facial Recognition Currency Recognition Interactive Voice Commands Cartoonization Software and Software Updates.

The Hardware menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions settings and information pertaining to the hardware components of apparatus . The Hardware menu can include a plurality of options including About Camera Motion Camera Settings Motion Sensor Settings Internet Connectivity Audio Controls and Visual Controls.

The Help menu can allow the user to access and manage a variety of features functions settings and information pertaining to software and hardware assistance user help instructional information and other information. The Help menu can include a plurality of options including About Life Hub Getting Started Guide Set Up Instructions FAQ Privacy Policy Online Help and Technical Support.

Tool box can include a plurality of widgets which may also be accessible via keyboard hot keys that provide the user with quick access to a variety of utility functions and features including but limited to printing snipping posting calculating and accessing the Internet with a single touch or click command. The tool box may be positioned in any desired area of the interface and can include a plurality of tool icons including Print Save to Folder Post To Facebook Email Screen Shot Calendar Internet Browser Calculator Picture Camera Snip Scissors Post To Website Notepad and Home. The user can activate and deactivate via the Tool Box menu option of the Utilities menu. The Print tool can allow the user to print any page displayed on the screen. The Save To Folder tool can allow the user to copy and save any page to the user s personal folder. The Post To Facebook tool can allow the user to copy and post the displayed screen to the user s Facebook page. The Email tool can allow the user to email as an attachment any page displayed on the screen. The Screen Shot tool can allow the user to capture a screen shot of web content on the screen display. Captured screen shot images can be emailed posted to the user s Facebook page and saved into the user s personal folder. The Calendar tool can provide the user with a calendar that can used to set schedules and reminders. The Internet Browser tool can allow the user to access and display a web browser to access the Internet. The Calculator tool can allow the user to display a calculator on the GUI. The Picture Camera tool can allow the user to activate camera so as to capture an image. The Snip Scissors tool can allow the user to snip and capture any portion of the screen including software interfaces and web content and instantly post to the user s Life Board. Snipped images can also be emailed posted to the user s Facebook page and saved into the user s personal folder. The Post to Website tool can allow the user to instantly post any content on the GUI including Life Boards images and money facts to the user s website. The Notepad tool can allow the user to access a notepad to create and save notes. The Home tool can allow the user to instantly revert to the Home screen.

The streamer can present the user with a constantly updating stream of information data news as well as notifications pertaining to the functionality features and utilities of apparatus . The user can customize the streamer to stream and display any desired information including but limited to stock quotes messages money quote of day business mantras financial news briefs new content notifications new chores and job assignments affiliated retailers messages money facts briefs Barter Sale Exchange notifications and savings balances and so forth. The streamer may be customized via the Streamer Settings and Live Streamer Settings options of the Utilities menu.

Turning to a user can deposit funds into their account with apparatus by using the Deposit application. As shown in the main interface of the Deposit application can include a plurality of deposit options . The deposit options can allow the user to deposit funds in a variety of manners including manual deposit electronic deposit camera deposit and hybrid deposit.

The manual deposit option can allow the user to deposit funds simply by removing the cap of housing and placing any desired funds into the user s corresponding compartment . Funds that may be deposited manually include paper currency coin currency checks IOUs and so forth. If a user selects the manual deposit option the user may be presented with the deposit fund type selection interface shown in which can list the fund types or combinations of fund types that the user can deposit. Once the user selects an appropriate fund type option a funds quantity interface may be displayed to a user.

The funds quantity interface can include one or more fund type categories with the particular categories displayed depending on the fund type option that the user had selected in interface . In the exemplary interface shown in the user has selected to deposit paper currency coin currency and checks IOUs. Each fund type category can include a plurality of entry boxes that allow the user to enter the quantity of each denomination of each currency type or the dollar value of each check or IOU that is being deposited. A subtotal entry box can allow the user to enter a sum for each fund type category and a total entry box can allow the user to enter the total sum of all funds that are being deposited.

The user may configure software for example by accessing the Deposit Settings option of the Operations menu to either request that the user manually enter totals and subtotals in entry boxes or to calculate the totals and subtotals automatically. If the manual option is selected the software can check the user s entries to determine that the sums are correct. If the automatic option is selected the software can simply display the sums. If the sums are incorrect the user may be prompted to reenter the correct sum. If the sums are correct or automatically calculated the user can select deposit widget to display a confirmation interface shown in

The deposit confirmation interface can display to the user the entered denominations quantities subtotals and total for all fund types. Additionally the confirmation interface can provide the user with confirmation options including confirm and finish confirm and allocate confirm and source and confirm and new deposit. Selecting confirm and finish confirms the deposit and returns the user to the main menu interface while selecting confirm and new deposit confirms the deposit and returns the user to the main deposit interface .

Selecting confirm and allocate can confirm the deposit and present the user with an category selection interface shown in . The category selection interface can present the user with a plurality of categories of which the user can select one or more categories into which the user desires to allocate the deposited funds. Subsequently the user can allocate a desired amount of deposited funds into the selected categories via an allocation interface . The user may allocate the funds into selected categories by percentage of the deposit or by a monetary amount . Software can then calculate and display the corresponding monetary amount or deposit percentage based on the user s entry. Subsequently the user can select an allocate widget to be presented with a confirmation interface displaying the user entered allocations and a plurality of confirmation options including confirm and finish confirm and source and confirm and new deposit. The functionality of the confirmation options may be substantially the same throughout the various deposit interfaces.

Selecting confirm and source can confirm the deposit and present the user with a deposit sourcing interface shown in . The deposit sourcing interface can present the user with a plurality of categories of which the user can select one or more categories from which the deposited funds were sourced. The user can then enter the amount of funds sourced from each selected category. Subsequently the user can select a source widget to be presented with a confirmation interface displaying the user entered deposit source amounts and a plurality of confirmation options including confirm and finish confirm and allocate and confirm and new deposit.

Turning back to a user can also choose to deposit funds by utilizing the electronic coin acceptor assembly and the camera of apparatus . The user can select the electronic deposit option in interface to deposit coins via coin acceptor assembly the camera deposit option to deposit paper currency via camera or the hybrid option to deposit both coins and paper currency via a combination of the coin acceptor and the camera. Subsequently software can prompt the user via one or more interfaces to deposit coins via the coin acceptor and or to place paper currency in front of camera . When coin currency is being deposited the coin acceptor assembly can determine the denomination and quantity of each denomination of coins deposited and communicate the information to software . Once all coin currency has been deposited the user can indicate to software to deposit paper currency or to proceed to a deposit confirmation interface. When paper currency is placed in front of camera software can analyze a captured image of the currency to determine the denomination of the paper currency. The user can then indicate to software to scan additional paper currency to deposit coin currency or to proceed to a deposit confirmation interface. The deposit confirmation interface which may be substantially similar to interface can display the total amounts of coin and paper currency deposited subdivided by denomination and indicating the quantity of each denomination deposited. The user can then select one a plurality of confirmation options including confirm and finish confirm and allocate and confirm and new deposit which may have functionality substantially similar to that described above.

A user can withdraw funds from their account with apparatus by using the Withdraw application. The user may withdraw funds via either a quick withdrawal procedure or a detailed withdrawal procedure. The quick withdrawal procedure enables the user to withdraw money from their account without recording the savings allocations category from which the funds are being withdrawn and without recording the denominations of the funds. Conversely the detailed withdrawal procedure enables the user to record the savings allocations category from which the funds are being withdrawn and or the denominations of the funds.

Upon selecting the Withdraw application the user may be presented with a menu interface and a choice of a quick withdrawal or a detailed withdrawal. If the user selects the quick withdrawal the user may be presented with an entry box where the user can enter the monetary value of the funds being withdrawn. The user can then elect to withdraw more funds or confirm the withdrawal and withdraw the funds for example by removing cap so as to access the user s compartment . Upon confirmation software can display main menu interface .

If the user selects the detailed withdrawal the user may be presented with a withdrawal category interface which may be substantially similar to interface . The withdrawal category interface can present the user with a plurality of categories of which the user can select one or more categories from which the user desires to withdraw the funds. Subsequently the user may be presented with a withdrawal allocation interface which may be substantially similar to interface wherein the user can enter an amount of funds to be withdrawn from each of the selected categories. Subsequently the user may be presented with a funds quantity interface substantially similar to interface wherein the user can enter the quantity of each denomination of each currency type that is being withdrawn. As in interface the totals and subtotals may be manually entered by the user or automatically calculated by the software. Finally the user may be presented with a withdrawal confirmation interface with can display to the user the amounts withdrawn of each fund type as well as the total amount withdrawn. The confirmation interface can also present the user with confirmation options including confirm and finish and confirm and withdraw more.

Turning to the My Account application can display a variety of information and reports to the user regarding the status of the user s account. shows an exemplary main account menu interface including a plurality of account related reporting options which the user can select to display further detail. The reporting options can include for example Account Balance Deposit Reports Withdrawal Reports Savings Allocations Reports Savings Goals Reports Sources Reports Checks IOUs Report Gift Transfers Report Income Expenses Report Net Worth Report Life Points Rewards Denominations Report Projections Trends and Activity Log.

If the user selects the Account Balance option on the main account menu interface an account balance interface can be displayed including a coin currency balance paper currency balance check IOU balance credit transfer balance and total balance. A Mix Balance option can allow the user to view customized balances from two or more funds categories.

Selecting the Deposit Reports option on the main account menu interface can display a deposit history interface shown in showing the history of the user s deposits to their account. For example the deposit interface can show the monetary values dates and times of a desired amount of previous deposits to the account as well as a total amount of the displayed deposits. The deposits interface can further allow the user to see deposits for a desired date range to page forward and back in the deposit history so as to display successive ranges of deposits and to search deposits for a particular date or date range or a specific deposit transaction. Furthermore charts and graphs and statistics options can also be presented to the user. The user can select the Charts Graphs option to access a variety of graphic information and illustrations pertaining to deposit transactions including but not limited to column graphs bar graphs pie charts line graphs and area graphs. The user can also select the Statistics option to access a variety of statistical information pertaining to deposit transactions including but not limited to data comparison statistics means medians and modes statistics average daily monthly quarterly and yearly deposit statistics.

Additionally a details option can be provided with each deposit transaction which the user can select so as to display a deposit details interface shown in . The deposit details interface can show the specific funds denominations and quantities deposited for that transaction as well as the allocations and sources of the funds deposited in that transaction if available. Options to allocate unallocated quantities of deposited funds or to source unsourced quantities of deposited funds can also be presented to the user in the details interface.

Selecting the Withdrawal Reports option on the main account menu interface can display a withdrawal history interface showing the history of the user s withdrawals from their account. The withdrawal history interface can be substantially similar to and can have substantially similar functionality as the deposit history interface including withdrawal details statistics and charts and graphs as well as allocations of withdrawn funds.

Selecting the Savings Allocation Reports option on the main account menu interface can display savings allocation balance interface shown in . The savings allocation balance interface can display a plurality of allocation categories along with the amounts of funds in the user s account that have been allocated to each category. Such allocation categories can include for example Bills School Tuition Emergencies Lunch Money Banking Investments Lending My Business Shopping Gifts Donations and Other. A total of all allocated funds in the user s account as well as a total of all unallocated funds in the user s account can also be displayed. The user can also be presented with options to allocate unallocated funds and to reallocate funds that have already been allocated. Options to display charts and graphs and statistics pertaining to the allocations of the funds in the user s account can also be presented. The user can also select any displayed category to shown a allocation category details interface shown in . The allocation category details interface can show the history of the allocations made by the user into the particular category. For example the allocation details interface can show the monetary values dates and times of a desired amount of the allocations made to that category as well as a total amount of the displayed allocations. The deposits interface can further allow the user to see allocations for a desired date range to page forward and back in the allocation history so as to display successive ranges of allocations and to search allocation for a particular date or date range or a specific allocation.

Selecting the Savings Goals option on the main account menu interface can display a savings goals interface which can display a list of the savings allocation categories along with a corresponding savings goal value for each category. The user can select a particular category to display savings goal details for that category such as for example Today s Date Savings Goal Start Date Savings Goal End Date Savings Goal Amount Current Saved Goal Balance Goal Balance Remaining Total Save Days and Save Days Remaining. The user can further edit the savings goals details as desired to set particular savings goals and desired dates for reaching the goals.

Selecting the Sources Reports option on the main account menu interface can display a savings sources interface. The savings sources interface can be substantially similar in configuration to the savings allocations interface and can display a plurality of funds source categories along with the amounts of funds in the user s account that have been sourced from each category. Such source categories can include for example Gifts Couch Change My Job Chores My Business Crowdfund Found Winnings Allowance Refunds Borrowed and Other. A total of all sourced funds in the user s account as well as a total of all unsourced funds in the user s account can also be displayed. The user can also be presented with options to source unsourced funds as well as to display charts and graphs and statistics pertaining to the sources of funds in the user s account. Selecting a source category can display to the user a source details interface. The source details interface may be similar in configuration to the allocations details interface and can display detailed information pertaining to the source category such as amount of funds in the category as well as the date and time of sourcing. The user can also view funds sources for a desired date range to page forward and back in the source history so as to display successive ranges of sources and to search sources for a particular date or date range.

Selecting the Checks IOUs Report option on the main account menu interface can display a checks and IOUs interface shown in . The checks and IOUs interface can display a history of the user s deposits of checks and IOUs to their account. For example the interface can show the monetary values dates and times of a desired amount of previous check and IOU deposits to the account an identification of each deposit as a check or IOU as well as a details option for each deposit. The checks and IOUs interface can further allow the user to see deposits for a desired date range to page forward and back in the deposit history so as to display successive ranges of deposits and to search deposits for a particular date or date range or a specific deposit transaction. Furthermore fields showing the total amount of check funds deposited the total amount of IOU funds deposited the total amount of check funds that have been converted to cash the total amount of IOU funds that have been converted to cash the remaining unconverted check funds the remaining unconverted IOU funds and the total unconverted funds can also be shown. Selecting the details option pertaining to a particular check or IOU deposit can show the value of the check or IOU deposit the payer of the check or IOU whether the check or IOU has been converted to cash whether the check or IOU has been redeposited as cash into apparatus and the dates of such conversion and redepositing.

Selecting the Gift Transfers Report option on the main account menu interface can display a gift transfers report interface showing a history of gift transfers into the user s account. The financial management education system can allow individuals for example friends or family of a particular user to make gift transfers to the user s account. The transfers may be performed for example via a web interface provided by server wherein the done can execute a transfer from the donor s credit card debit card or bank account directly to the account of the desired user.

The gift transfer interface can show the monetary values dates and times of a desired amount of previous gift transfers to the account as well as a details option for each gift transfer. The gift transfer interface can further allow the user to see gift transfers for a desired date range to page forward and back in the transfer history so as to display successive ranges of gift transfers and to search gift transfers for a particular date or date range or a specific transaction. Furthermore fields showing the total amount of gift transfer received the total amount of gift transfers that have been converted to cash the remaining unconverted gift transfers and the total number of gift transfers can also be shown. Selecting the details option pertaining to a particular gift transfer can show the value of the gift transfer the donor of the gift transfer whether the gift transfer has been converted to cash whether the gift transfer has been redeposited as cash into apparatus and the dates of such conversion and redepositing.

Selecting the Income and Expense Report option on the main account menu interface can display the income and expense report interface shown in . The income and expense report interface can display the user s income source categories the incomes for each category and a total income amount . The income and expense report interface can also show the user s expense categories the amount spent in each category and the total expense amount . The net income can also be shown. Details options may be provided for each income and expense category.

Selecting details options for a category allow the user to view a transaction list for that category for a desired date range to page forward and back in the transaction list so as to display successive ranges of transactions and to search transactions for a particular date or date range or a specific transaction. Furthermore charts and graphs and statistics options can also be presented to the user. Additionally a details option can be provided for each transaction which the user can select so as to display the specific funds denominations and quantities used in that transaction as well as the allocations and sources and or expense categories for the funds involved in the transaction if available.

Selecting the Net Worth Report option on the main account menu interface can display a net worth report interface which may be substantially similar to the income and expense report interface. The net worth report interface can display the user s assets categories the amount of assets in each category and a total assets amount. The net worth report interface can also show the user s liability categories the amount of liabilities in each category and the total liabilities amount. The total net worth can also be shown. Details options may be provided for each assets and liabilities category. Furthermore charts and graphs and statistics options can also be presented to the user.

Selecting the Life Points Rewards option on the main account menu interface can display a life points interface. The life points interface can be substantially similar in configuration to the deposit history interface and can display a log of the user s life points activity a life points conversion report and an option to convert life points. Life points can be rewards given to a user in exchange for the performance of certain activities. Life points can then be converted to a monetary value according to a conversion rate. Life points the activities for which life points are rewarded the amount of life points rewarded for each activity and the life point conversion rate may be set up by an administrator of apparatus for each user of apparatus . For example an administrator may award 10 life points for reading a financial education website 50 life points for achieving a preset savings goal and 20 life points for playing a financial game and set up an exchange rate of one dollar for 50 life points. Once the user performs the desired activity the life points can be deposited into the user s account. The user can then convert the life points into currency at a desired time.

The life points activity log can display to the user a log of the instances of life points rewards for a desired date range to page forward and back in the life point reward list so as to display successive ranges of rewards and to search the reward list for a particular date or date range. A total current life point amount and an option to convert life points can also be displayed. Details options may be provided for each life points reward instance. Selecting the details options can display details as to the particular life points reward including date and time of reward amount of life points rewarded the individual who rewarded the life points to the user the action for which the life points were rewarded the duration of the action and the date and time of the action.

Clicking on the life points conversion option on the life points menu interface can display a life points conversion report showing the total life points awarded to the user the total life points converted by the user and the remaining balance of unconverted life points. Clicking on the convert life points option on the life points menu interface can display a life points conversion interface which can show the user s current life point balance and the conversion rate and can further allow the user to enter an amount of life points to be converted into a cash value.

Selecting the Denominations option on the main account menu interface can display a denominations report interface shown in . The denominations report interface can display all the coin denominations and all paper currency denominations currently in circulation as well as the quantity of notes or coins of each denomination that are in the user s account. The denominations report interface can further display the total amount of coins and paper currency in the user s account subtotal cash values of the coins and notes and the total cash value of the coins and notes in the user s account.

Selecting the Projections and Trends option on the main account menu interface can display a projection and trends interface shown in . The projections and trends interface can display data pertaining to the user s account in a variety of graphic forms such as column graphs bar graphs line graphs and area graphs. The user can select from a variety of categories for which to display projections and trends including Deposits Withdrawals Savings Allocations Savings Goals Sources and Life Points. For each category the user can input criteria including a start date a projection date and a chart type. The user can then select to analyze the category based on the criteria with the software returning a graphic chart display shown in based on historical data and trends and showing a future projection for the particular category.

Selecting the Activity Log option on the main account menu interface can display an interface showing the user s activity with software including but not limited to deposits withdrawals account access credit transfers profile changes content downloads resources access demo trading activities homework reviews financial games played fund raising activities password changes print activity and so forth. The activity log can also display all activity for a desired date range to page forward and back in the activity log so as to display successive ranges of activity and to search the reward list for a particular date or date range.

Additional utility applications may be provided as part of software . Such utility applications can provide the user with a variety of activities that facilitate financial education entrepreneurship education and life management in general by engaging in a variety of actions and exercises. Some utility applications may be provided in conjunction with one or more affiliates of the system for financial education entrepreneurship education and life management .

Communications between software and affiliates such as retailers banks investment brokerage firms and so forth can be facilitated by Web Services via the Internet or by an Application Programming Interface. This can allow affiliates to provide a customized experience for the user via software . Furthermore software can receive data induced communications from the affiliate and display them to the user. Data induced communications can include audio and visual communications that can be transferred to a user s account after a predetermined set of data has been retrieved from the user s account by the affiliated retailers banks and investment brokerage firms. Data induced communications can promote and reinforce the benefits of banking debt free consumption saving money investing in the stock market and so forth. For example affiliates could utilize data induced communications to send a variety of entertaining congratulatory or motivating messages to the user that promote prudent savings and consumption practices such as achieving money savings goals or investment goals messages of encouragement based on savings trends and offers for products and service based on the accumulated savings in the user s account. As a further example messages may be sent by an affiliated retailer when the user has achieved a savings goal that enables the purchase of a specific product or service or when the user has achieved certain savings goals in general. Messages may also be sent by an affiliate based on the user s money savings trends or based on the accumulated cash savings in the user s account. Additional information may be sent to enhance communications with certain affiliates for example price negotiations special and seasonal offers and so forth.

The My Banking utility application can allow the user to learn the basic principles of banking by engaging in a variety of banking activities exercises and games. The user can manage virtual bank accounts for the purposes of gaining banking experience. The My Banking utility can include a Demo Banking function that allows the user to learn the fundamentals of commercial banking including but not limited to managing checking savings and certificate of deposit accounts depositing and withdrawing funds using credit and debit cards paying bills online understanding overdraft protection using automatic teller machines and understanding bank statements and maintaining bank account ledgers. A demonstration bank account can be designed to simulate the functionality of a real bank account whereby the user can perform all the banking activities normally associated with a real bank account using imaginary or virtual money.

The My Banking utility can further include a Commercial Banking function which can provide the user with direct access links to the online systems of affiliated commercial banks. The user can connect to their account with an affiliated commercial bank and manage their account via software .

Additional features of the My Banking utility can include Banking Message Boards showing communications between the user and affiliated banking institutions Bank Allocation balance showing the user s total funds for each bank account Banking Games providing interactive games and activities relating to banking and Banking Resources providing educational and informational material regarding the banking industry and money management.

The My Investments utility application can allow the user to learn the basic principles of investing in the stock market by buying and selling stocks and bonds of real companies listed on the major stock exchanges utilizing a virtual demonstration trading account. A Demo Trading function of the My Investments utility application can allow the user to engage in simulated trading in stocks and bonds through a virtual demonstration trading platform using virtual or fictitious money. The Demo Trading utility can allow the user to learn and understand the fundamentals of stock market investments for example opening brokerage accounts researching stocks and bonds understanding stock quotes understanding spread prices placing buy and sells orders selecting share allotments understanding limit and stop orders and understanding brokerage statements. The demonstration trading account can be designed to simulate the functionality of a real brokerage account whereby the user can perform all the brokerage activities normally associated with a real brokerage account using virtual money for the purposes of gaining trading experience without the risk of real monetary losses. The user can execute trades based on real time movements of stock and bond prices of companies listed on the major stock exchanges in the United States. As an example the demonstration trading platform could credit the user with 100 000 in virtual money to buy and sell stocks and bonds and create trading portfolios of listed companies. Portfolios can be managed by the user as a way to learn practice and test trading strategies prior to engaging in actual trading. Stock and bond price quotes can be displayed in real time or with time interval delays. The demonstration trading platform also incorporates an entertaining feature that enables the user to create intra household and inter household trading groups in order to compete against other users of apparatus based on virtual stock and bond portfolio returns.

The My Investments utility can further include a Brokerage Trading Station function which can provide the user with direct access links to the online systems of affiliated investment brokerage firms. The user can connect to their account with an affiliated investment brokerage firm and manage their account via software . The My Investments Utility can include safeguards to ensure that trading is not being carried out by individuals under the age of 18 in accordance with applicable securities laws. For example an administrator user account may be required to grant access. In another embodiment if an attempt was made to access a brokerage trading platform the camera and facial recognition software could activate scan and verify that the user is authorized to access the brokerage trading platform. If the user is authorized to access the brokerage trading platform an administrator can also establish a set of rules governing trading parameters for example establishing a limit on the monetary value of each stock or bond trade maximum value of portfolio exposure and price limitations on individual stocks and bonds.

Additional features of the My Investments utility application can include Investments Message Boards Investment Allocation Balance Investment Games and Investment Resources.

The My Shopping utility application can allow the user to shop for and purchase products and services from affiliated retailers learn financial responsibility and develop prudent consumption habits. The My Shopping utility can include a variety of functions that teach and promote the benefits and values of prudent consumption habits including but not limited to debt free consumption saving for consumption bargain shopping and delaying instant gratification.

The My Shopping utility can include a variety of functions including About My Shopping showing general information including instructional and navigational information Shopper Profile showing the user s shopping profile Shopper Account showing information pertaining to the user s shopping account such as a historical cash expenditure log and pending purchase orders Affiliated Retailers showing affiliates where the user can perform shopping activities Search Register Products Services allowing the user to search for specific products and services available for sale by the affiliated retailers using keyword searches Group Shopper allowing the user to create a team shopping group that includes other intra household and inter household users of apparatuses so as to secure discount pricing from affiliated retailers Shopping Savings Goals allowing the user to create and set savings goals for purchase of specific products and services from affiliated retailers Purchase Report showing historical information pertaining to all the products and services purchased by the user Bids Offers allowing the user to negotiate prices of desired products and services with affiliated retailers thereby engaging in price bargaining Shopping Allocation Balance the user s current cash balance in the Shopping savings allocation category and Discounts Coupons Center showing listing of discounts offers and coupons from affiliated retailers.

The My Chores utility can allow users and administrators such as parents and guardians to effectively transact and manage household chore assignments. The My Chores utility can help users develop positive personality traits such as reliability thoroughness persistence and dedication. The administrators such as parents and guardians can manage and assign chores to users and to create rewards for performing chores. A My Chores Log function can present to the user a chores log interface shown in . The chores log interface can display a list of chore assignments. Each chore assignment can be marked as new as open or incomplete or as completed. Additional functions can include Search Chores Next Chores Charts Graphs Statistics Chores Message Board and Life Points. The user can also select the Search Chores function to access and display information on a specific chore assignment or a range of job assignments set between two dates. The user can select the Next Chores function to access and display information on the successive batch of chore assignments in sequential order by dates. The user can select the Charts Graphs function to access and display variety visual graphic information and illustrations pertaining to chore assignments such as bar charts pie charts line graphs and area graphs. The user can also select the Statistics function to access and display a variety of statistical information pertaining to chore assignments such as data comparison statistics means medians and modes statistics average daily monthly quarterly and yearly chore assignment statistics. The user can also select the Chores Message Board function to access and display a message board that lists messages pertaining to chore assignments. The user can select the Life Points function to access and display detailed information on the Life Points earned by the user for the successful completion of chore assignments including the amount of Life Points earned.

For each chore a details option may be provided. Selecting the chore details option for a particular chore can display a chore details interface shown in . The chore details interface can display various information relating to the chore for example the date and time that the chore was assigned the deadline for the completion of the chore the assignor of the chores the monetary amount the assignor shall pay the user to complete the chore a money form for the chore payment the number of life points the assignor shall reward the user to complete the chore the non cash reward the assignor shall reward the user to complete the chore a description of the chore and a message from the assignor of the chores. Additionally the user can send a message to the chore assignor. The chore details interface can also display an editable status for the chore which can show whether the chore is new read open completed or closed.

The My Jobs utility can allow users and registered employers to transact and manage job assignments. The My Jobs utility can help users develop positive work ethics and habits such as resourcefulness creativity responsibility and self reliance. The user can manage employment opportunities and job assignments by utilizing the My Jobs utility including searching and retrieving job assignments communicating with registered prospective employers negotiating fees and income self marketing documenting and tracking fees and income earned and creating educational graphical illustrations that summarize job assignments information and data.

Registered prospective employers for example neighbors community households schools and neighborhood businesses can post assign and manage jobs assignments via a website in communication with system which can be hosted for example on server . These job assignments can then be displayed to users via the My Jobs utility. Administrators can further review and approve prospective employers for a particular user.

The My Jobs utility can display a job listing interface substantially similar to chores log interface . The job listing interface can provide a variety of functions including Search Jobs for accessing and displaying information on a specific job assignment or a range of job assignments set between two specified dates Next Jobs for accessing and displaying information on successive batch of jobs displayed in sequential order by dates a Jobs Message Board tile accessing and displaying a message board that lists all messages pertaining to past job assignments Charts Graphs accessing and displaying a variety visual graphic information and illustrations pertaining to past job assignments such as bar charts pie charts line graphs and area graphs Statistics for accessing and displaying a variety of statistical information pertaining to past job assignments such as data comparison statistics means medians and modes statistics average daily monthly quarterly and yearly job assignment statistics and Life Points for accessing and displaying detailed information on the Life Points earned by the user from job assignments including reward points amounts and issue dates.

For each job assignment a details option may be provided. Selecting details for a particular job can display a job details interface substantially similar to chore details interface . Job details can include for example the date and time that the job was posted the deadline for the completion of the job the employer the monetary amount the employer shall pay the user to complete the job a money form for the payment the number of life points the employer shall reward the user to complete the job the non cash reward the employer shall reward the user to complete the job a description of the job the contact information of the employer and a message from the employer of the job. Additionally the user can send a message to the employer. The job details interface can also display the status of the job for example whether the job posting was read whether the job was accepted completed or declined and whether the job posting is open or closed.

The My Barter Sales Exchange utility application can allow the user to barter sell and buy personal items by communicating with other users registered with system . This can provide the user with exposure to commerce asset sales raising funds bargaining and trade in general. The My Barter Sale Exchange utility can allow the user to register list and advertise new or used personal items for barter or sale to other users of system including but not limited to video games clothing sports equipment comics electronic equipment toys and movies. The My Barter Sale Exchange utility can also allow the user to search for purchase and barter products listed and advertised by other users of system .

The Barter Sale Exchange utility can include a variety of functions including a user profile a create listing function that allows the user to list an item on the exchange including photo and video content for the item the name of the item a unique product desertification number new or used declaration the age and condition of the item the price and information on what the item can be bartered for and a Listed Items function showing a list of all items available for sale and exchange.

The Listed Items function can display an interface showing the list of items with a photograph price identification and new or used status for each item. The Listed Items interface can further allow users to search for items by keyword or category. Each listed item can further have a details option. Selecting the details option can display a larger image of the item additional description for the item and options for buying or bartering the item. When buying the item the user can further make an offer on the item that is lower than the advertised price so as to bargain for the item. Additional functions in the details interface can allow the user to view a profile of the seller or to sent a message to the seller.

Additional functions in the listed items interface can include Member Wish Lists showing the user a listing of items that are listed as wanted items for barter or purchase by other users Sales Report allowing the user to access and display a historical report on all items sold by the use Purchase Report allowing the user to access and display a historical report on all items purchased by the user Barter Report allowing the user to access and display a historical report on all items bartered by the user List Item which can allow the user to create post and advertise items for barter and sale and Wanted Items which allows the user to create and post a wish list of desired products for barter and purchase.

The My Financial Planner utility can allow the user to create and manage simple financial plans that can help the user learn and understand how to track and manage spending budget wisely manage investments for the future and manage money in general.

The My Financial Planner utility can allow the user to create and display savings goals for various savings categories such as bills tuition rainy day lunch money investments weekends business shopping gifts donations and general as well as a universal savings goal incorporating all categories. The My Financial Planner utility can further allow the user to create and display a financial plan. The financial plan may be tailored to the user s age and could include one or more of asset registration liabilities registration budgeting plans and earnings and savings plans. Age appropriate financial plan templates may be provided to allow the users to easily create financial plans that are relevant to their needs.

The My Business World utility can allow the user to learn crucial skills and qualities that are required to become an entrepreneur such as communicating effectively with people being comfortable leading networking developing self confidence thinking creatively team building selling effectively weighing pros and cons of potential solutions proceeding wisely with instituting solutions setting professional goals and understanding and embracing failures as learning opportunities. The My Business World utility can also allow the user to learn the basic principles of business such as risk taking organizing recognizing opportunity researching and basic accounting principles.

The My Business World utility can provide a variety of functions. Such functions can include My Businesses showing information pertaining to the user s active and operating businesses such as name of businesses description of business activities and so forth Start Up Businesses which can present the user with a questionnaire regarding the name of the new business start date nature of business and a variety of other information pertaining to starting new business and Business Plans which can present the user with a variety of template options for creating basic business plans for a new business venture. Such functions can also include Entrepreneurship Challenges which can present the user with a variety of business and entrepreneurship challenges created by administrators such as parents and guardians as well as affiliated consultants business partners and the system and generated by software based on the user s age and general knowledge skills. Such administrators and affiliates can assign monetary non monetary and life point rewards for completion of business challenges and can further create assign and monitor custom business challenges for the user.

Additional functions of the My Business World utility can include Business Idea Center which can provide the user with ideas on how to start popular businesses for children Business Resources which can present the user with information and resources pertaining to business in general such as tips on starting and managing a small business and links to private and government organizations websites that promote and support youth entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship Games which can provide interactive games that can teach and inspire the user to start a business and become an entrepreneur My Business Website which can provide utility tools that enable the user to create and launch business websites Entrepreneurship Mantras which can display business and entrepreneurship mantras on the streamer Business Allocation Balance showing the cash account balance that has been allocated to the My Business savings allocation category as well as projections and trends and Business Accounting which can provide information that can allow the user to learn and understand basic business accounting principles such as managing business accounting ledgers understanding profit loss reports creating sales forecasts and reports understanding revenues income reports and taxation. Ask an Entrepreneur which can allow the user to ask entrepreneurial and business related questions to affiliated business consultants and entrepreneurs via software 

The My Crowdfunding utility can allow the user to easily create launch and manage crowdfunding campaigns via a website provided as part of system . The My Crowdfunding utility can allow a user to raise money from one or more contributors to fund the user s specified cause such as new business ventures charitable funding raising community projects special causes school projects and events and so forth. The My Crowdfunding utility can provide a variety of functions including Create Launch Campaign which can allow the user to create crowdfunding campaigns using a variety of templates and establish rules for the campaigns such as funding goals disbursement parameters expiration of the campaign and fund limitations and denominations My Campaigns which can present a list of the user s campaigns Monitor Campaigns which can display information and data pertaining to the user s fundraising campaigns such as contributed funds credit transfers fund balances donor or contributors information activity logs and the current rules governing the fundraising campaign Crowdfunding Ideas Tips which can display ideas for creating crowdfunding campaigns and tips on marketing crowdfunding campaigns Crowdfunding Archives which can display the user s expired and inactive crowdfunding campaigns Contributors which can display information regarding individual donors or entities who have contributed funds to the user s campaigns such as names contact information and historical monetary contributions and Campaign Reports which can display information pertaining to the user s active and inactive crowdfunding campaigns such as the name of campaign the campaign beneficiaries campaign commencement date the campaign duration and expiration date funding objective progress reports projections charts and graphs and a log detailing all donor or contributor information such as the name of donor or contributor date of contribution time of contribution amount of contribution and the money form of the contribution.

The My Homework utility can allow the user to manage their homework assignments and can further allow administrators as well as affiliates such as schools and teachers to assign homework that is related to personal finance money economics and so forth.

The My Homework utility can include a variety of features and functions including My Homework Assignments which can display a log of the user s homework assignments including pending assignments and new assignments Calendar which can display a monthly calendar showing the user s homework assignments receipt dates and due dates Scheduler which can allow the user to create and organize a schedule for homework assignments Prioritizer which can allow the user to organize and prioritize homework assignments in order of due dates Time Manager which can allow the user to efficiently manage time for homework assignments and display time logs showing the time taken for previous homework assignments School Messages showing a message log to the user from the school Grade Tracker showing the user s school grade history Search Homework allowing the user to search past assignments by keyword or date and Homework Archives showing a log of the user s past homework assignments.

The My Life Points utility can allow the user and the administrators to transact and manage a rewards payment program that can motivate the user to frequently engage with and use the various financial learning entrepreneurship learning and life management utilities and programs of software and apparatus .

Life Points are non monetary reward points that can be earned accumulated and converted to money by the user based on a pre set conversion rate established by an administrator. The administrator can reward the user with Life Points for engaging with the educational and entertaining utilities programs games exercises and resources of software for example by trading with an investment demo account managing a demo bank account creating crowdfunding campaigns starting a business earning money through jobs selling unwanted personal items achieving savings goals managing real bank accounts trading stocks with real investment accounts donating to charity reading financial websites playing financial games and so forth. The administrator can also use life points to reward the user for successfully completing chores job and homework assignments. Software can track and record all the user s usage activities and generate reports detailing the usage activities for example access start times access termination times total usage duration and the nature of activities or actions the user engaged in the utility programs utilized the games played and the web resources accessed. The administrator can use the administrator interface to obtain the user s usage and activity information to reward life points to establish life points conversion rate and schedules and so forth.

For the user the Life Points utility can display a rewardable actions interface shown in . The rewardable actions interface can display to the user a list of actions which are eligible for a life points reward or for which life points have been rewarded including details such as the rewarder of the life points the action for which the life points were rewarded the completion date or due date of the action and the amount of life points rewarded.

The My Website utility can allow the user to create and manage personal websites via the interfaces of software . The My Website utility can provide a variety of functions including My Website Library which can present links to the user s active websites and display a list of the user s deactivated websites Create Launch Websites which can provide authoring tools and templates that allow the user to create and launch websites and Website Idea Center which can provide to the user various ideas for creating websites.

The My Life Boards utility can allow the user to create and manage a collection of artistic pin boards which can let the user collect various images articles and other content from software from affiliates and from the internet and to clip the content to the life board. The My Life Boards utility can provide a variety of functions including My Life Board Library which can show the user s active life boards My Life Board Ideas which can provide the user various ideas for creating life boards and Create Launch which can provide the user with authoring tools and templates for creating life boards.

The My Games utility can provide the user with a variety of educational and entertaining games related to personal finance money management business entrepreneurship and life in general. The games may be played in single player mode by the user or may be played in cooperation or against other users of an apparatus in a single household or remote users of other apparatuses that are registered with system . The My Games utility can provide a variety of game categories including business related games finance related games life related games and money related games.

The My Private Advisor utility can allow the user to consult with registered affiliates of system who can offer professional advice related to a variety of topics. For example the user can receive advice relating to topics such as money finance school matters sports health starting a business social matters friends and family and life in general and so forth. The advice may be provided in a discreet and anonymous manner. The My Private Advisor utility can present the user with various advisor categories including General Advisor Life Advisor Money Finance Advisor School Advisor Sports Health Advisor Business Advisor Entertainment Advisor and Social Advisor. The user can select one of the categories and enter their query into a field. The query can then be sent to the selected advisor who can provide a response in due course.

The My Financial Resources utility can allow the user to create and organize libraries of educational and informative web resources related to personal finance financial literacy and money in general. The My Financial Resources utility can provide several functions including Next Resources allowing the user to access and display successive groups of resource lists The Create Library allowing the user to create a resource libraries Search Resources allowing the user to access the web to search for personal financial financial literacy and money resource websites and to add desired resource websites to the library Recommend Resources allowing the user to automatically generate a list of recommended personal financial financial literacy and money resource websites resources and Press allowing the user to access a variety of news and press content pertaining to personal financial financial literacy and money resources.

The My Message Board utility can provide a central location for displaying communications to and from the user and to view a log of all incoming and outgoing messages including audio video and email as well as messages within system including messages between the user and administrators between the user and affiliates and between the user and other users. Messages related to affiliated banks affiliated brokerage investment firms prospective employers affiliated retailers Barter Sales Exchange sellers Barter Sales Exchange buyers fund contributors friends family members parents administrators charities community organizations school teachers and other users may be shown in the My Message Board utility.

The My Chat Room utility can allow the user to create manage and visit chat rooms forums and blogs for interacting with other users registered with system . The My Chat Room utility can include a list of available chat rooms and forums as well as options to create and terminate chat rooms and forums and to invite other users to the chat rooms and forums.

The My Money Facts utility can provide the user with a variety of information and facts pertaining to personal finance financial literacy and money in general. The My Money Facts utility can present to the user a variety of topics for example History of Money United States Currency World Currencies Amazing Money Fun Money Facts and Quote of the Day. The user can select a topic to view further information regarding to the topic.

The Life Share utility can allow the user to access and play a variety of educational multimedia materials that have been created and posted by affiliates such as educators banks and investment brokerage firms. For example such material can include video tutorials pertaining to personal finance and money banking the stock market investing entrepreneurship and so forth. The user can select a desired educational material from a list provided by the Life Share Utility.

The Life Hub News and Press utility can display to the user information regarding apparatus system software and so forth. Such information can include new and upcoming software programing releases new services releases new retail bank and investment firm affiliates and upcoming events and schedules as well as any other relevant information.

Software can include a separate interface for administrators that can allow the administrators to access administrator only features and to set permissions for users . The administrators interface can include a variety of functions including Parental Controls User Accounts Life Points Chores Allowance Usage Log Mobile Checks IOUs Notifications Alerts Third Party Approvals and Messages.

The Parental Controls function can allow administrators to create and activate specific restrictions and filters for the user for blocking or filtering certain content information and resources including web content investment trading platforms and utility applications. The administrator can also establish online privacy settings for the user. Additionally the Parental Controls function can include a monitoring utility that allows the administrator to monitor in real time the user s activities on apparatus and on other devices for example by accessing a website hosted on server using another computing device or a mobile device.

The User Accounts function can allow administrators to access and display information regarding the accounts of users that are registered on apparatus including account balances deposit and withdrawal logs account reports gaming activities jobs and chores activity logs barter and sales activity logs shopping activities wish list information real and demo banking activities real and demo trading and investment activities message logs web browser histories and other information and data. The User Accounts function can also allow administrators to create a universal access password that can allow administrators to access administrator functions from any interface of software .

The Life Points function can allow administrators to create register and manage actions that are rewardable with life points as well as schedules and conversion rates. The Chores Allowance function can allow administrators to create register and manage chore assignments and allowance schedules for users. The Usage Log function can allow administrators to access and display usage logs for each user of apparatus . The Checks IOUs function can allow administrators to create register and manage a log of checks and IOUs so as to record and save information pertaining to users checks and IOUs. The Notifications Alerts function can allow administrators institute and manage mobile and email notifications and alerts as well as rules for issuing notifications and alerts based on desired activity in a user s account. The Third Party Approvals function can allow administrators to approve user communications with affiliates of system including affiliated banks affiliated investment brokerage firms affiliated retailers and prospective employers. The Mobile function can allow administrators to determine which users can connect to system via a mobile device. The Messages function can allow administrators to create and manage a message board and to send to and receive messages from users.

Software can further provide age appropriate programming to users of apparatus . Users may be required to provide their age when registering an account with apparatus . Based on the age of the user software can vary the selection of features available to the user.

For example for users aged between three and six software can block access to more complex financial tools and utilities and display simple content allowing the younger user to interact with apparatus in a limited scope. Actions such as depositing coins can trigger entertaining age appropriate animations on the screen display. As the user becomes older software can increase the user s access to additional utility applications.

Additionally software can include a variety of multimedia programming and content such as sounds animations videos and so forth. The multimedia content can be provided to users of software at any desired point or as a result of any desired interaction. For example multimedia content can be shown to welcome users upon log in upon selection of a particular utility application upon completing an activity such as depositing or withdrawing money or upon reaching a desired savings goal. Additionally frequency and content of the multimedia may differ based on the age of the user with younger users receiving simpler and more frequent content than older users. The multimedia content may be stored on the storage medium of apparatus or may be streamed or downloaded from server of system . Additionally users can register with system to receive additional multimedia content as desired.

Software can include a library of multimedia content that can be integrated into various aspects of software and utilized so as to provide an engaging and age appropriate experience to the user. For example for younger users the multimedia content can engage the younger user s imagination so as to motivate the user to use apparatus and learn personal finance form positive money habits and learn important life skills.

The multimedia content can be provided to greet encourage and congratulate the user for a variety of reasons for example special occasions achievements and milestones as well as any other desired user interaction with software . As examples cartoons and animations could greet congratulate and or rally the user after accessing their account on the Home screen. For example multimedia content such as cartoons and animations could be displayed to the user for a variety of achievements such as saving a sufficient amount of money to purchase desired pre registered product or service donating money to a charity attaining pre set savings goals selling personal items winning financial games starting a new business achieving specific school grade scores and so forth. The multimedia content can include licensed well known characters or characters proprietary to the financial education entrepreneurship education and life management system .

Thus the embodiments described herein can allow users to learn about finance fiscal responsibility and entrepreneurship as well as to manage many aspects of their lives simply via one stand alone apparatus.

The foregoing description and accompanying figures illustrate the principles preferred embodiments and modes of operation of the invention. However the invention should not be construed as being limited to the particular embodiments discussed above. Additional variations of the embodiments discussed above will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

Therefore the above described embodiments should be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive. Accordingly it should be appreciated that variations to those embodiments can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the following claims.

