---

title: Targeted content provisioning based upon tagged search results
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for tagging search results, organizing tagged search results for later access from various devices, public sharing of tagged search results, and/or providing targeted content based upon search results tagged by a user. That is, a user may tag a search result (e.g., a website, an image, a social network profile, etc.), such as through a one-click user input, with a tag to create a tagged search result. The tagged search result may be organized into a public tag collection for sharing and/or exploration of tagged search results by other users. The tagged search result may be organized into a personal tag collection for later access by the user from any device. Because the tagged search result may be indicative of an interest of the user, targeted content associated with the tagged search result may be provided to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542495&OS=09542495&RS=09542495
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09542495
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130430
---
Many users discover explore and or interact with content exposed by a search engine e.g. search functionality associated with websites email services social networks databases image sharing services app stores marketplaces file systems and or other content sources . In an example a user may search for a particular email using search functionality of an email application. In another example a user may search for pictures videos and or other user content shared by friends through a social network. In another example a user may search for content such as images videos articles websites and or a wide variety of other content through a search engine such as a search engine app or a search website. In this way a search engine may provide search results corresponding to content that may be relevant to a search query submitted by a user. A user may perform a search task over multiple search sessions using one or more devices e.g. the user may search for vacation destinations using a work laptop Monday morning the user may search for vacation resorts using a tablet device Monday night the user may search for sightseeing information using a mobile phone Thursday at lunch etc. . Because search engines may not adequately retain and or organize search queries or search results for later access the user may have to manually save and organize search results otherwise the user may lose track of search results e.g. on Saturday the user may desire to see a particular sightseeing search result from Thursday however the user may be unable to remember the exact search query that resulted in the search engine providing the particular sightseeing search result . The inability to save and recall search results from any device for personal consumption and or the inability to share such search results between users may result in a diminished user experience.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for tagging search results organizing tagged search results into tag collections maintaining tag collections and or providing targeted content based upon tagged search results are provided herein. A search result may correspond to a wide variety of content associated with a user searching for such content such as images social network posts database entries URLs websites videos articles files emails social network profiles items to purchase through a marketplace and or other various types of content. The search result may be associated with various types of interfaces such as a web search engine file search functionality social network search functionality email search functionality and or other interfaces providing search functionality.

In some embodiments of organizing search results into one or more tag collections a tag action associated with a first search result may be received. The tag action may correspond to a first tag indicated by a first user. In an example the first user may have submitted a search query for vacation destinations . Various search results that may be relevant to the search query may have been provided to the first user. For example the first search result and a tag suggestion may have been provided e.g. a Cancun website URL and a tag suggestion of BestCancunVacationSite may have been provided to the first user . The first user may indicate the first tag by interacting with the tag suggestion such as through a one click user input e.g. the first user may invoke tagging of the first search result e.g. with the tag suggestion of BestCancunVacationSite utilizing a single user input such as a single touch input a single mouse click input a single voice command a single keyboard input etc. . In another example the first user may have created the first tag through a create tag interface e.g. the first user may create a VacationIdeas tag . In this way the first search result may be tagged to create a first tagged search result. In an example the first tagged search result may be organized into a first personal tag collection corresponding to the first tag e.g. the first user may have previously tagged one or more search results with VacationIdeas such that the one or more tagged search results and the first tagged search result are organized into a VacationIdeaspersonal tag collection for later access by the first user from any device browser and or application . In another example the first tagged search result may be organized into a first public tag collection corresponding to the first tag e.g. one or more users may have previously tagged search results with the VacationIdeas tag such that the tagged search results and the first tagged search result are organized into a VacationIdeas public tag collection for later access by users from any device browser and or application .

In some embodiments of facilitating tagging of search results responsive to receiving a first search query e.g. through a modal search interface configured to provide search results based upon search queries and or provide tagged search results based upon tag searches identified by a tag identifier such as a set of search results may be provided based upon the first search query. The set of search results may comprise a first search result and or other search results that may be relevant to the first search query. In an example a first user may create a first tag for the first search result through a create tag interface. In another example one or more tag suggestions for the first search result may be provided for selection by the first user. A tag suggestion may specify the first tag that may be selected by the first user for tagging the first search result e.g. the first tag may correspond to a tag used by other users to tag the first search result . If the first user has not already tagged the first search result with the first tag then the tag suggestion may be provided in an off state e.g. a non highlighted state . If the first user has already tagged the first search result with the first tag then the tag suggestion may be provided in an on state e.g. a highlighted state . In an example multiple tag suggestions may be provided for the first search result and or for other search results to facilitate tagging of search results. Responsive to receiving a one click user input e.g. a single touch input a single mouse input a single keyboard input and or a variety of other relatively simple inputs by the first user associated with the tag suggestion the first search result may be tagged with the first tag to create a first tagged search result.

The first tagged search result may be organized into a personal tag collection and or a public tag collection associated with the first tag. For example a user tagging model indicative of whether the first user prefers to organize tagged search results into personal tag collections public tag collections or both may be evaluated to determine how to organize the first tagged search result. In this way the first tagged search result may be personally access by the first user through the first tag collection and or shared with other users through the first public tag collection. Responsive to tagging the first search result the tag suggestion may be transitioned from the off state to an on state e.g. a highlighted state . In an example a tagging accuracy rating of the first user may be maintained based upon whether the first user tags search results similar to how other users tag such search results. In this way a tagging badge may be awarded to the first user based upon the tagging accuracy rating.

In some embodiments of maintaining one or more tag collections responsive to identifying a first user tagging a first search result with a first tag a first personal tag collection may be generated for the first tag. If the first user is already associated with the first personal tag collection for the first tag then the first personal tag collection may be selected for use otherwise the first personal tag collection may be created and designated for storage of one or more tagged search results that are tagged by the first user with the first tag. In this way the first search result may be organized as a first tagged search result into the first personal tag collection for later access by the first user e.g. responsive to the first user tagging a running website search result with a SummerGetFit tag the tagged running website search result may be organized into a SummerGetFit personal tag collection used to store tagged search results that are tagged by the first user with the SummerGetFit tag . In an example of accessing the first personal tag collection responsive to the first user submitting a first tag search SummerGetFit the tagged running website search result and or other tagged search results that are tagged with the SummerGetFit tag may be provided to the first user on any device browser and or application e.g. the first user may have tagged the running website search result on a laptop and may later access the tagged running website search result from a tablet device .

In an example the first tagged search result may be organized into a first public tag collection used to store search results tagged with the first tag by one or more users. For example a SummerGetFit public tag collection may have a tagged running trail image search result tagged by a second user with the SummerGetFit tag a tagged exercise video search result tagged by a third user with the SummerGetFit tag a tagged soccer club website search result tagged by a fourth user with the SummerGetFit tag and or other tagged search results tagged by other users with the SummerGetFit tag. In this way responsive to a user submitting a tag search SummerGetFit the tagged search results within the first public tag collection may be provided. Thus the user may explore content tagged by other users.

In some embodiments of providing targeted content to users based upon tagged search results a set of personal tag collections may be maintained for a first user. The set of personal tag collections may comprise a first personal tag collection comprising one or more tagged search results tagged by the first user with a first tag e.g. a tagged running website search result a tagged basketball image search result a tagged running group social network post search result a tagged baseball club social profile search result and or a variety of other search results tagged with the SummerGetFit tag by the first user . In an example the set of personal tag collections may comprise one or more additional personal tag collections e.g. a BasementIdeas personal tag collection a CarpetColors personal tag collection a FunnyFriendPosts personal tag collection etc. . One or more topics of interest e.g. a home renovations topic of interest a humor topic of interest a fitness topic of interest etc. may be identified for the first user based upon various information associated with the first user. In an example the first topic of interest e.g. the fitness topic of interest may be derived from the SummerGetFit tag. In another example a second topic of interest e.g. a running trails topic of interest may be derived from content of tagged search results that are tagged with the SummerGetFit tag. In another example a third topic of interest e.g. a home renovations topic of interest may be derived by aggregating one or more tags such as the CarpetColor tag and the BasementIdeas tag. In another example a fourth topic of interest e.g. a basement bathroom projects may be derived from aggregating content of tagged search results from multiple tag collections. In this way targeted content e.g. a picture of a basement bathroom a do it yourself renovation video an exercise studio class advertisement etc. may be provided to the first user based upon the one or more topics of interest.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of organizing a search result into one or more tag collections is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. A search result may comprise various types of content such as social network content e.g. multimedia content published through a social network a social network profile a social network post or other social network content that may be identified by search functionality a website e.g. a URL to a website provided as a search result by a search engine an image e.g. an image provided by a search functionality of an image sharing service a video user created content a URL multimedia content and or a variety of other types of content.

At a tag action associated with a first search result may be received. The tag action may correspond to a first tag indicated by a first user. In an example of receiving a tag action a search query may have been received from the first user e.g. local ice cream shops through a search interface e.g. a search interface associated with a file system an office productivity application a map application a search application a search website an email application a website a social network etc. . A set of search results may be provided based upon the search query e.g. images videos social network posts social network profiles driving directions maps emails files multimedia content articles URLs websites consumer goods for purchase applications for purchase etc. . The set of search results may comprise the first search result. In an example one or more tag suggestions may be provided for the first search result e.g. a tag suggestion may be based upon one or more users tagging the first search result with the first tag such that a user may perform the tag action utilizing a one click user input associated with a tag suggestion. If the first user had previously tagged the first search result with a tag suggestion then the tag suggestion may be displayed in an on state e.g. highlighted otherwise the tag suggestion may be displayed in an off state e.g. not highlighted . In another example a create tag interface may be provided for the first search result such that the tag action corresponds to a tag created by the first user. In this way the tag action comprises a first tag e.g. corresponding to a tag suggestion invoked by a one click user input by the first user or a tag created by the first user . At the first search result is tagged with the first tag to create a first tagged search result e.g. the first user may have selected a tag suggestion of a YummyTreats tag for an ice cream website search result the first user may have created a FavoriteDesert tag through the create tag interface for the ice cream website search result etc. .

At the first tagged search result is organized into a first tag collection corresponding to the first tag. In an example the first tagged search result is organized into a first personal tag collection comprising one or more tagged search results that are tagged with the first tag by the first user e.g. a tagged cupcake image search result a tagged winery website search and or other tagged search results tagged with the YummyTreats tag by the first user . In this way the first user may access e.g. recall tagged search results within the first personal tag collection from any device application and or browser by performing a first tag search YummyTreats e.g. the first tagged search result may have been tagged through a laptop device by the first user and may be later accessed by the first user through a mobile phone .

In another example the first tagged search result is organized into a first public tag collection comprising one or more tagged search results tagged with the first tag by one or more users e.g. the first tagged search result may be organized into a YummyTreats public tag collection into which one or more users may have contributed tagged search results tagged with the YummyTreats tag and may be publically available for users to discover and or explore tagged search results . The first public tag collection may be accessible by one or more users that have contributed to the first public tag collection and or users that have not so contributed which may promote exploration of new search results and or content by users. For example a second user e.g. whom has not tagged a search result with YummyTreats but may be planning an upcoming party and is seeking out ideas from other users may submit a tag search YummyTreats in order to discover tagged search results that other users have tagged with YummyTreats. In this way the first public tag collection may be provided to the second user. At the method ends.

The system may comprise a tag access service and or a user experience layer . In one example the tag access service may comprise a database proxy a web service or other functional component configured to submit data e.g. queries to the tag database and or retrieve data from the tag database . In this way the tag access service may provide the user experience layer with access to the tag database . The user experience layer may be configured to provide a visual representation of the tagging data model e.g. a visualization of the tag information user information content information and or query information . The user experience layer may be configured to provide an interactive user interface e.g. through the tag access service to the tagging data model. In this way a user may interact with the tagging data model through the interactive user interface e.g. the user may explore organize perform database operations such as join operations and or modify tag information user information content information and or query information .

In an example a tag action associated with the tag suggestion of SightSeeing may be received by the tagging component . For example the first user may have used a one click user input e.g. a single touch input a single mouse click a single keyboard input etc. to invoke the tag action. The one click user input may allow the first user to tag the history of the tower search result with a SightSeeing tag without having to provide multiple user input and or complex user input such as through navigation of a menu. In this way the tagging component tags the history of the tower search result with the SightSeeing tag to create a tagged history of the tower search result e.g. a tagged history of the tower search result and or a tagged history of the tower search result . In an example the tagging component may organize the tagged history of the tower search result into a SightSeeing personal tag collection designated for storage of tagged search results that are tagged by the first user with the SightSeeing tag e.g. the tagging component may create the SightSeeing personal tag collection based upon the tag action where no personal tag collection exists for the first user with regard to the SightSeeing tag or the tagging component may include the tagged history of the tower search result in the SightSeeing personal tag collection if the SightSeeing personal tag collection already exists . In this way the first user may access the tagged history of the tower search result through the SightSeeing personal tag collection from any device browser and or application. In another example the tagging component may organize the tagged history of the tower search result into a SightSeeing public tag collection designated for storage of tagged search results with the SightSeeing tag by one or more users e.g. a second user may have tagged a Paris tower image search result with the SightSeeing tag a third user may have tagged a best tour spots video search result with the SightSeeing tag etc. . In this way one or more users may access the SightSeeing public tag collection to discover and or explore various tagged search results e.g. that are tagged with the SightSeeing tag .

A second device e.g. different than the first device and or the third device through which the first user tagged at least some of the tagged search results within the Cars personal tag collection may host a search app . The search app may provide a modal search interface through which the first user may submit search queries for search results and or submit tag searches for tagged search results e.g. a tag search may comprise a tag identifier such as that differentiates the tag search from a search query . In an example the tag collection provider may receive a car tag search submitted through the search app by the first user. The car tag search comprises a Car tag that corresponds to the Cars personal tag collection . Accordingly the tag collection provider may provide the first user with access to the Cars personal tag collection through the second device. In this way the first user may access e.g. recall tagged search results without having to manually recall one or more search queries used to initially identify such tagged search results e.g. the first user may access tagged search results which may have been tagged over multiple days using different devices by merely submitting the car tag search instead of remember and or resubmitted a search query that lead to the discovery of the tagged car reviews site search result the tagged sports car image search result and or the tagged car maker search result .

A third device may host a search app . The search app may provide a modal search interface through which a third user may submit search queries for search results and or submit tag searches for tagged search results. In an example the tag collection provider may receive a tag search corresponding to a SightSeeing tag submitted through the search app by the third user. Accordingly the tag collection provider may provide the third user with access to the SightSeeing public tag collection through the third device. In this way the third user may explore tagged search results that may have been tagged by the third user and or other users e.g. the third user may explore the SightSeeing public tag collection in order to obtain ideas for an upcoming vacation regardless of whether the third user has or has not tagged a search result with the SightSeeing tag .

An embodiment of facilitating tagging of search results is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At responsive to receiving a first search query a set of search results may be provided based upon the first search query. For example a first user may submit a first search query vacations and may be presented with one or more search results that may be relevant to vacations e.g. a beach image search result a social network vacation post search result a vacation destination video search result a vacation itinerary email search result etc. . The set of search results may comprise a first search result e.g. the vacation destination video search result a second search result e.g. a travel agency social network profile search result and or other search results.

One or more tag suggestions may be provided for the set of search results. For example a tag suggestion may be provided for the first search result at . The tag suggestion may specify a first tag. For example a tag suggestion of FunTravelVideo specifying a FunTravelVideo tag may be provided for the vacation destination video search result e.g. the tag suggestion may be based upon FunTravelVideo personal tag collections of users and or a FunTravelVideo public tag collection . In an example the tag suggestion may be based upon a FunTravelVideo personal tag collection of a second user indicating that the second user tagged the vacation destination video search result with the FunTravelVideo tag. In another example the tag suggestion may be based upon a FunTravelVideo public tag collection indicating that a plurality of users tagged the vacation destination video search result with the FunTravelVideo tag. If the first user has not yet tagged the vacation destination video search result with the FunTravelVideo tag then the tag suggestion of FunTravelVideo may be displayed in an off state e.g. not highlighted otherwise the tag suggestion of FunTravelVideo may be displayed in an on state e.g. highlighted . In an example multiple tag suggestions may be provided for the first search result. For example a second tag suggestion may be provided for the first search result. The second tag suggestion may specify a second tag. For example a second tag suggestion of BeachVideo may be provided for the vacation destination video search result. In an example tag suggestions may be provided for multiple search results within the set of search results e.g. one or more tag suggestions may be provided for the second search result one or more tag suggestions may be provided for a third search result etc. .

At responsive to receiving a one click user input e.g. a single user input or other relatively simple user input as opposed to the first user having to navigate menus and or having to perform multiple inputs to tag a search result of the tag suggestion by the first user the first search result may be tagged with the first tag to create a first tagged search result. For example the vacation destination video search result may be tagged with the FunTravelVideo tag to create a tagged destination video search result based upon a single input by the first user e.g. the first user may merely touch or click the tag suggestion of FunTravelVideo . In an example the first tagged search result is organized into a first personal tag collection configured to store one or more tagged search results that are tagged by the first user with the first tag. For example the first tagged search result may be organized into the first personal tag collection based upon a user tagging model indicating a personal preference of the first user to organize tagged search results into personal tag collections. In another example the first tagged search result may be organized into a first public tag collection configured to store one or more tagged search results that are tagged by one or more users with the first tag. For example the first tagged search result may be organized into the first public tag collection based upon the user tagging model indicating a public sharing preference of the first user to organize tagged search results into public tag collections.

In some embodiments the first user may privately share the first tagged search result with one or more users. In an example the first user may send a link for the first tagged search results to a second user such that the second user e.g. but not other users may view the first tagged search result. In another example a private share setting may be received from the first user. The private share setting may specify one or more users as having access to the first tagged search result. In this way the first tagged search result may be e.g. selectively controllably etc. exposed for user access based upon the private share setting.

In some embodiments the first tagged search result and or other tagged search results may be available e.g. for relatively immediate availability for access from any browser and or any device with or without user authentication. In an example the first user may access the first tagged search result and or other similarly tagged search results from a device e.g. a public device into which the first user may not want to submit login credentials by submitting a tag query FunTravelVideo FirstUser into a browser or other type of search mechanism on the device. In another example the first user may login to access the first tagged search result and or other tagged search results tagged by the first user. In this manner a user is able to access tagged content in a desired manner e.g. quickly on any device through any browser with or without providing login credentials etc. .

In some embodiments the first user e.g. or a user authorized by the first user or an administrator may perform various organization functionality associated with tagged search results. In an example the user may un tag the first tagged search result and or delete the first tagged search result. In another example the first user may add context to a tag by providing a comment field comprising a description for the tag. In another example the first user may add context to a tagged search result by providing a comment field comprising a description for the tagged search result.

In some embodiments users may follow tagging activity of other users. For example a second user may follow the first user such that the second user may receive notifications when the first user tags search results such as the first tagged search result. In some embodiments users may follow tagging activity associated with a particular tag. For example the first user may receive notifications of tagging activity when other users use the first tag. The first user may subscribe to receive such notifications and or may receive such notifications in an automated fashion based upon the first user tagging the search result with the first tag. In this way users may privately personally and or publically access organize and or share tagging information. At the method ends.

Responsive to receiving a one click user input associated with the tag suggestion of AutoFriend by the first user the car reviewing company social network profile search result may be tagged with the Auto Friend tag. Because the first user has tagged the car reviewing company social network profile search result with the Auto Friend tag the tag suggestion of AutoFriend may be displayed in an on state as illustrated as tag suggestion of search app . In this way the first user may tag search results utilizing a single input as opposed to multiple inputs such as menu navigation multiple clicks and or multiple keystrokes. In some embodiments the tagging component may provide a create tag interface e.g. create tag interface through which the first user may create a tag for tagging a search result as illustrated in .

The tagging component may provide a create tag interface for the car reviewing company social network profile search result . Responsive to receiving a first tag such as a MyNewFriend tag created by the first user through the create tag interface the car reviewing company social network profile search result may be tagged with the MyNewFriend tag to create a tagged car reviewing company social network profile search result . Because the first user has tagged the car reviewing company social network profile search result with the MyNewFriend tag the tag suggestion of AutoFriend may be transitioned from the off state to an on state as illustrated as tag suggestion in search app

In another example a user tagging model may be maintained within the first user profile . The user tagging model may comprise a personal preference indicating that the first user prefers to tag search results merely for organization into personal tag collections 36 of the time. The user tagging model may comprise a public sharing preference indicating that the first user prefers to tag search results for organization into public tag collections 64 of the time. In this way the user tagging model may be evaluated to determine whether a tagged search result tagged by the first user is to be organized into a personal tag collection and or a public tag collection. In another example a search result content type may be maintained. The search result content type may indicate types of content that the first user tags e.g. 60 of search results tagged by the first user are images 25 of search results tagged by the first user are URLs etc. . The search result content type may be evaluated to determine a layout with which a tag collection is displayed to the first user e.g. a personal tag collection may be displayed as a magazine layout based upon the search result content type indicating that the first user has tagged a relatively large percentage of images e.g. the personal tag collection may be displayed as a magazine layout even though the personal tag collection comprises more than merely images such that a URL text etc. are displayed e.g. formatted in the magazine layout as an image would be displayed . Various types of layouts may be used to display a tag collection such as a magazine layout for images a video preview layout for videos e.g. a plurality of video preview tiles used to play videos a list layout for URLs a text reader layout for textual information such as articles e.g. a virtual book etc.

An embodiment of maintaining one or more tag collections is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. One or more personal tag collections may be created and or maintained on behalf a first user. At responsive to identifying a first user tagging a first search result with a first tag a first personal tag collection may be generated for the first tag. For example the first user may create a BasementIdeas tag for tagging a home designer website search result. A BasementIdeas personal tag collection may be created for storage of tagged search results that are tagged with the BasementIdeas tag by the first user. At the first search result is organized into the first personal tag collection as a first tagged search result. In this way the first user may organize share and or access tagged search results from any device. In an example of organizing multiple tagged search results responsive to the first user tagging a second search result with the first tag the second search result may be organized as a second tagged search result into the first personal tag collection e.g. the first user may tag a carpet image search result with the BasementIdeas tag .

In some embodiments one or more personal tag collections may be maintained for the first user. In an example responsive to identifying the first user tagging a third search result with a second tag a second personal tag collection may be generated for the second tag. For example the first user may tag a carpet image search result with a Flooring tag by performing a one click user input associated with a tag suggestion of Flooring. The carpet image search result may be organized as a tagged carpet image search result into a Flooring personal tag collection. The first user may access the one or more personal tag collections through a personal tag collection interface as illustrated in .

In some embodiments the first tagged search result may be organized into a first public tag collection associated with the first tag. For example a BasementIdeas public tag collection may comprise one or more tagged search results that were tagged by one or more users with the BasementIdeas tag. The BasementIdeas public tag collection may be accessible through a public tag collection interface as illustrated in . In this way users may organize share and or explore tagged search content tagged by other users. At the method ends.

The personal tag collection component may be configured to provide the first user with access to the one or more personal tag collections through a personal tag collection interface . In an example the query component may be configured to receive a tag search from the first user. The tag search may specify a first tag such as the Summer tag. The personal tag collection component may provide the first user with access to a tagged local brewery search result a tagged sunny movie search result a tagged Sarah social network profile search result and or other tagged search results organized within the Summer personal tag collection . In another example the first user may view sort and or share personal tag collections and tagged search results through the personal tag collection interface . In an example the personal tag collection interface may provide tag counts associated with respective personal tag collections e.g. a tag count of 15 may be provided for the Cars personal tag collection based upon a total count of 15 tagged search results organized into the Cars personal tag collection . In an example the personal tag collection interface may provide follower relationship information such as an indication of what users are following the first user e.g. tag actions performed by the first user may be displayed in tag news feeds associated with Jen Brad Colleen and Jack .

The public tag collection component may be configured to display one or more avatars e.g. an icon or image associated with a user through the public tag collection interface . An avatar may represent a user that tagged a search result within the Trees public tag collection with the Trees tag. For example an image representing Jane e.g. an avatar for Jane may be displayed in association with a tagged treehouse search result that Jane tagged with the Trees tag. Responsive to selection of a first avatar representing a user one or more tag collections and or other tagging information associated with the user may be displayed. For example responsive to selection of the image representing Jane one or more tags used by Jane to tag search results may be displayed e.g. a Trees tag corresponding to a Trees personal tag collection a LoveSushi tag corresponding to a LoveSushi public tag collection and or other tag collections contributed to by Jane .

In an example a top tag collection newsfeed may be provided through the public tag collection interface . The top tag collection newsfeed may comprise one or more tag collections having tag counts above a top tag threshold e.g. the 5 largest public tag collections . In another example a tag trending newsfeed may be provided through the public tag collection interface . The tag trending newsfeed may comprise one or more tag collections having tag count increases within time spans above a trending threshold. For example the tag trending newsfeed may display a Football tag based upon a relatively large number of users recently contributing to a Football public tag collection during a playoff game.

In an example the public tag collection component may be configured to crawl one or more content sources to identify user generated content e.g. an encyclopedia website through which users may contribute information . A descriptor assigned to user generated content by a content source may be identified e.g. the encyclopedia website may assign a President descriptor a political descriptor and or a war descriptor to an article regarding how a president started a famous war . A URL comprising the user generated content may be tagged with a tag derived from the descriptor to generate a new tagged search result e.g. the URL may be tagged with a President tag . The new tagged search result may be added into a public tag collection for access by one or more users e.g. a President public tag collection .

An embodiment of providing targeted content to users based upon tagged search results is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a set of personal tag collections may be maintained for a first user. The set of personal tag collections may comprise a first personal tag collection. The first personal tag collection may comprise one or more tagged search results tagged by the first user with a first tag e.g. websites images videos and or other search results tagged with a Cancun tag . In an example the set of personal tag collections may comprise additional personal tag collections such as a second personal tag collection comprising one or more tagged search results tagged by the first user with a second tag e.g. search results tagged with a Beach tag .

At a first topic of interest for the first user may be identified based upon the first tag. For example a first topic of interest Vacation may be derived from the Cancun tag. In an example the first tag may be selected for identification of the first topic of interest based upon the first personal tag collection comprising a tagged search result count above a relevancy threshold e.g. the first user may have tagged a plurality of tagged search results with the Cancun tag which may indicate that Cancun is relatively important to the first user as opposed to a TV tag used by the first user to tag merely a single search result . The first topic of interest may be identified based upon various techniques such as a classification technique a mapping of topics to tags a text classifier etc. At first targeted content may be provided to the first user based upon the first topic of interest. For example a vacation image a vacation website a cruise promotion a timeshare video and or a plethora of other promotional content associated with the first topic of interest Vacation may be identified e.g. from an advertisement database and provided to the first user e.g. through a public tag collection interface through a personal tag collection interface through a social network through a search results page etc. .

In an example of identifying a topic of interest a second topic of interest may be identified based upon content comprised within one or more tagged search results of the first e.g. and or second third etc. personal tag collection e.g. a classification of a website an image classification of an image textual classification of a social network post etc. . For example an entity e.g. a vacation resort entity comprised within one or more tagged search results within the first personal tag collection may be identified. The number of tagged search results comprising the entity may be compared with an occurrence threshold such that the second topic of interest is identified based upon the entity where the number exceeds the occurrence threshold e.g. a second topic of interest Vacation Resort may be identified because the vacation resort entity may occur within at least a threshold number of tagged search results thus indicating that the first user may have an interest in the vacation resort entity . In this way second targeted content e.g. a vacation booking interface for the vacation resort may be provided to the first user based upon the second topic of interest Vacation Resort .

In another example of identifying a topic of interest a third topic of interest may be identified based upon aggregating two or more tags associated with the set of personal tag collections. For example a category may be determined for the Cancun tag such as a Tropical Vacation category based upon evaluating the Cancun tag and or one or more tagged search results tagged with the Cancun tag. The Beach tag may be identified as a second tag based upon the Beach tag corresponding to the Tropical Vacation category. Because the first tag and the second tag correspond to the same category e.g. the Cancun tag and the Beach tag may be related because the Tropical Vacation category is shared by the Cancun tag and the Beach tag such tags may be aggregated together to identify the third topic of interest such as a third topic of interest Topical Vacations . In this way third targeted content e.g. an advertisement for a tropical getaway may be provided to the first user based upon the third topic of interest.

In an example of identifying a topic of interest a fourth topic of interest may be identified based upon aggregating one or more tagged search results of the first personal tag collection e.g. content of tagged search results tagged with the Cancun tag with one or more tagged search results of the second personal tag collection e.g. content of tagged search results tagged with the Beach tag . For example the set of personal tag collections and tagged search results therein may be represented as one or more bi partite graphs. The one or more bi partite graphs may be traversed to determine that the first personal tag collection the second personal tag collection and or other personal tag collections correspond to the category and the fourth topic of interest may be derived from the category. In this way fourth targeted content may be provided to the first user based upon the fourth topic of interest.

In an example a user profile for the first user may be maintained. The user profile may comprise a set of topics of interest associated with the first user. In this way targeted content may be selectively provided to the first user based upon the user profile. At the method ends.

The topic generation component may identify a first topic of interest Traveling based upon a Travel tag associated with the Travel personal tag collection . The topic generation component may identify a second topic of interest Mexico Vacation based upon content comprised within one or more tagged search results of the Travel personal tag collection e.g. and or other personal tag collection s such as a tagged Mayan ruins video search result. The topic generation component may be configured to identify a third topic of interest Automobiles based upon aggregating a Cars tag of the Cars personal tag collection and a Biking tag of the biking personal tag collection . The topic generation component may be configured to identify a fourth topic of interest World Travel based upon aggregating one or more search results of the Travel personal tag collection such as a tagged beach search result and the tagged Mayan ruins video search result with one or more search results of the SightSeeing personal tag collection such as a tagged pyramids image search result and a tagged history of the tower search result. Also one or more tags of one or more personal tag collections may be aggregated with one or more tagged search results within one or more personal tag collections to identify one or more topics of interest. In this way the set of topics of interest may be generated.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of at least some of the exemplary method of at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 13104 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

