---

title: Online signup provisioning techniques for hotspot connections
abstract: Embodiments of system and method configurations for providing provisioning information to a mobile device via a wireless network access point are generally described herein. In some examples, a communication session is established between a mobile device and a service provider to obtain provisioning information for wireless network connectivity via a designated access point (e.g., a “hotspot”). A HTTP session is established within the communication session to exchange registration information via a browser of the mobile device. Provisioning information is returned within the communication session in a Subscription Management Object (MO) in response to successful completion of the HTTP session. The subscription MO is provided outside of the browser and the HTTP session (but within the communication session) using mechanisms such as OMA-DM or SOAP-XML communications. The mobile device can then utilize the provisioning information from the subscription MO to associate with an appropriate hotspot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479595&OS=09479595&RS=09479595
owner: Intel IP Corporation
number: 09479595
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130730
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 from International Application No. PCT US2013 052743 filed on Jul. 30 2013 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 761 167 filed Feb. 5 2013 which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments pertain to operations and communications performed by electronic devices in wireless networks. Some embodiments relate to authentication and provisioning operations used for establishing wireless network connections with a wireless network.

Wireless network operators are deploying a large number of access points to address growing data demands and provide a better quality of experience for client devices. These access points may implement standards from the IEEE 802.11 and Wi Fi Alliance standards families to provide a common user experience e.g. to operate as a Wi Fi Hotspot . With use of these standards infrastructure configurations are evolving to enable user and device roaming. One mechanism to facilitate user and device roaming is provisioning which enables devices associated with a subscription to easily visit and authenticate with different wireless networks. For example provisioning may allow a wireless network device to seamlessly authenticate and connect with hotspots located at different locations.

Operations in the provisioning process involve the exchange and implementation of operator policies and subscriptions e.g. the exchange of user credentials with the Wi Fi enabled devices. Existing techniques for online hotspot provisioning however often provide a dependency on a browser software application to fully exchange provisioning information such as deploying a specific plug in within a browser for the hotspot signup and authentication process. Use of a plug in and browser based solution may result in development and support to be provided for each device platform and browser type. In addition if a user installs another browser or disables the particular plug in the provisioning process may not successfully complete. The dependency of the authentication process on a browser based solution may lead to technical support issues and service interruptions.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments may incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments may be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

Various techniques and configurations described herein relate to provisioning operations of computing devices connecting to a wireless network. As further described these techniques may be deployed within a wireless network provided by a Wi Fi hotspot to enable communication of a subscription management object MO to a client wireless network device. This subscription MO may include information to assist the client wireless network device to select and authenticate with a particular wireless network for example to select a preferred network among multiple available networks . The exchange of the subscription MO in a hotspot setting may enable a client device to roam to wireless networks at other locations and quickly authenticate with the best available network assisting operations that establish a connection for the client device.

Flows and signaling mechanisms are described herein that exchange the subscription MO between an access point and a client wireless network device without using specific HTTP sessions that require use of a browser or browser plug in. Removing the browser dependency may help facilitate provisioning operations to be performed in all operating systems and platforms. It follows that the exchange of the subscription MO without dependency on a browser or browser environment can reduce development and testing times that would be otherwise needed for enabling plugins.

In one example multiple call flows of the online signup processing in Hotspot 2.0 Release 2 specification are modified. The online signup processing may be designated to facilitate the exchange of the subscription MO in a standard provisioning mechanism such as an OMA DM or SOAP based provisioning mechanism. As further described herein the call flows within the online signup processing may be modified to include additional signaling between an HTTP registration web server and an Online Sign Up OSU server using a session key. The key is used between the HTTP registration web server and the OSU server to tie the session to a particular user or user device and exchange data independent of a HTTP browser based session.

As network operators begin to expand deployments the operators are interested in operations for provisioning of operator policy and subscriptions user credentials on enabled mobile devices. Standards such as Wi Fi Alliance Hotspot 2.0 Release 2 have begun to define standards based operations for provisioning of operator policies and subscriptions with Wi Fi enabled mobile devices. Provisioning information may be used by network operators for example to guide network discovery and selection and indicate which Wi Fi networks that known devices should or should not connect and the like. Likewise provisioning information may be used by a mobile device prior to association with the network to determine a network s configuration and reachability information determine available services determine a preferred network and otherwise collect information on new networks and network locations.

In response to the processing of the authentication request and the subscription information the access point contacts the appropriate service provider and responds with subscription based provisioning information. The provisioning information may be used to guide the mobile device A with subscription information roaming information network discovery and selection information policies and other aspects of authentication and roaming interoperability. Such provisioning information may be provided within a subscription MO transmitted back to the mobile device A using OMA DM SOAP XML or other mechanisms.

In some examples subscription and policy provisioning for network discovery and selection ND S may be carried out using either OMA DM or SOAP XML protocols. Subscription and ND S policy data in the Hotspot 2.0 specification for example may be transported within a defined PerProviderSubscription Management Object MO . The same PerProviderSubscription MO may be used regardless of whether the transfer protocol is OMA DM or SOAP XML . In many cases a Service Provider decides whether to use OMA DM or SOAP XML procedures to perform provisioning and the client device is informed of the protocol supported.

As shown in the hotspot operates with use of a wireless network access point in communication with processing servers. The hotspot provides network communication between the access point and wireless network communicating devices e.g. smartphone A and computing device B through wireless network connections e.g. wireless network connection A to the smartphone A and wireless network connection B to the computing device B . Within operations of the hotspot the processing servers may operate to facilitate an authentication and provisioning of wireless network client devices. These include an HTTP server used to host webpages and data services that conduct registration operations and an Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA server that may be used as an AAA proxy to relay messages to the AAA server of supported service providers e.g. AAA server in service provider .

Provisioning is used to provide a mobile device with information on an unknown network. Thus if the mobile device is not authenticated with an access control list ACL provided from the hotspot AAA server a connection to the service provider and the service provider data network may be established to obtain subscription provisioning information. The hotspot may include access restrictions for the mobile device to restrict mobile device connectivity to the subscription servers of the service provider data network during the credential provisioning process and to prevent access to the internet until authenticated.

The hotspot receives data from a service provider data network operated by a service provider . The service provider data network facilitates the transfer of data from the internet and operates various subscription servers to manage provisioning operations. These subscription servers may include a policy server an AAA server a Subscription Remediation Sub Rem server and an Online Sign Up OSU server with the OSU configured for communicating with an internal or external certificate authority .

The policy server may be used to provision ND S policies to mobile devices. The policy node of the Subscription MO may be used to inform the mobile device of how to contact this server. The AAA server may be used to authenticate subscribers using the credentials obtained from the OSU Server . The OSU Server may be configured to register new subscribers and provision them with credentials. The Sub Rem Server is used to correct problems known to the service provider with the subscriber s credentials provisioned data e.g. the Subscription MO or the subscription itself. The subscription update node of the Subscription MO may be used to inform the mobile device how to contact this server.

Receipt of a subscription MO as currently defined in the Hotspot 2.0 specification may provide a dependency on a HTTP session within a browser and connection manager software launched within the mobile device. For example a browser may be configured with a plug in used to capture the subscription MO object in response to an HTTP request. A connection manager software application may operate on the mobile device to interact with a browser intercept the appropriate authentication message s determine provisioning information and complete the provisioning process.

The operations for performing provisioning include receiving a command from the server to launch a browser to a specific uniform resource indicator URI operation to access a specific webpage. The browser operating on the mobile device will then launch and conduct a HTTPS GET request within a browser to retrieve a webpage accessible at the URI operation . With this webpage the user may provide subscription information a selection of a rate plan authentication information and like information to associate with the appropriate network operation . In response to this webpage transaction the server will respond with an acknowledgment provided in an HTTPS response to the browser and include provisioning information in the Subscription MO operation that can be captured by a plug in of the browser .

In the example of a connection manager or other software operating at the mobile device is configured to detect completion of the HTTPS response in order to receive the provisioning information in the Subscription MO and complete the provisioning process. Again this provisioning information is provided in the HTTPS session launched and conducted by a browser . The subscription MO may be intercepted in the browser and provided to ongoing processes in the mobile device with use of a specific browser plug in for example.

The use of an HTTP HTTPS session in the browser and the successful receipt of the Subscription MO for the connection manager however is dependent on deployment of a plugin solution for each platform and browser type. It is often not practical for device vendors to implement and support all possibilities of browsers and platforms. In addition even though a connection manager might detect the default browser and install the proper plug in user behavior and preferences may prevent its usage. For example a user may install a new unsupported browser as the default browser or delete the supported browser. Users may also disable the browser plug in. Thus in many cases the connection manager will be unable to capture the subscription MO received in the browser . Such issues stem from the use of the browser HTTP session to communicate the subscription MO.

First operations performed in the OMA DM provisioning flow include establishment of a communication session operation which may include establishing a Transport Layer Security TLS or other encrypted session between the mobile device and the server initiating the communication session based on server side authentication . A DM package is transmitted from the mobile device to the server indicating the reason for contacting the server operation . For example the reason may indicate that the mobile device wants to establish a new subscription with the service provider. The DM package may include DevInfo and DevDetail MOs and a Generic Alert indicating the reason for contacting the server . The reason element in the Generic Alert may be set to a value such as SubscriptionCreation .

The server may use the information provided to determine provisioning characteristics such as user password or certificate credentials. The server returns a DM package including a command to launch a browser to a URI and a key generated by the server to link the HTTPS session with the DM session operation . Upon completion of the HTTP session using the key generated a HTTP server serving the webpage at the URI is configured to signal the server with the completion of the user input. As explained in the following operations this enables the server to provide the Subscription MO if the processing of user inputs is completed successfully .

In response to the command to launch a browser to an address with the specified URI Key the mobile device sends a DM package to the server containing the URI and Key operation . This DM package provides a request that the OMA client be notified upon the completion of the user s input registration data or other authentication registration data . The mobile device then launches the browser and establishes a secure HTTPS connection to the URI returned in operation such as by sending an HTTPS GET request to the Server URI Key operation .

Next using the webpage the user provides subscription information selects a rate plan or provides other registration data to facilitate registration with the server operation . The Server may return interim responses operation such as 102 status code HTTP responses being sent every 30 seconds or a like time interval to prevent HTTP connection timeouts until the user input processing is completed. At the end of the subscription provisioning process the server returns information indicating success or another status code of the process operation . In some examples this may be provided in a sppUserInputResponse XML instance document. The sppUserInputResponse XML instance document may be returned having its HTTP content type set to Content Type with Status code Key. 

Within the TLS communication session but outside of the HTTP session the server sends a DM package to the mobile device operation . This DM package contains the subscription MO e.g. a PerProviderSubscription MO and information that enables the MO to be processed e.g. a command ADD specifying the location of the PerProviderSubscription MO to be added to the OMA DM management tree on the mobile device .

Other operations used to facilitate the exchange of data in the connection may be performed including the mobile device sending a DM Package indicating the status of the MO processing operation a response received at the mobile device having a DM Package to indicate the end of the OMA DM transaction operation and a HTTPS transaction to retrieve a certificate specified in the Subscription MO operation and operation . The mobile device and server may then release the communication session operation e.g. TLS session that was established from operation . The mobile device may then disassociate from the Wi Fi access point operation and if the subscription was established successfully the mobile device may associate with the new credentials with the AP or another AP indicated in the subscription MO operation .

As shown operations performed in the SOAP XML provisioning flow include establishment of a communication session which may include establishing a TLS session between the mobile device and the server operation with server side authentication to initiate the session. A SOAP message is sent from the mobile device to the server indicating the reason for contacting the server operation . For example the reason may indicate that the mobile device may want to register for credentials with the service provider. The SOAP message may include DevInfo and DevDetail MOs and a Generic Alert indicating the reason for contacting the OSU Server. The reason element in the Generic Alert may be set to a value such as SubscriptionRegistration .

The server returns a SOAP message including a command to launch a browser to a URI and a key generated by the server operation . The server uses the key to link the HTTP session with the SOAP session so that it can provide the Subscription MO upon successful completion of user input registration processing . The mobile device transmits a sppPostDevData SOAP method operation with the content of the request informing the server to send the Subscription MO when user input registration associated with the key is successfully completed.

The mobile device launches the browser and establishes a secure HTTPS connection to the returned URI operation and sends an HTTPS GET request to the Server URI Key. Again similar to the OMA DM operations and the user provides information in the HTTPS session to facilitate registration with the server operation receive and process interim responses to keep the connection alive operation and receive a success indication upon completion of registration with the server operation .

Within the TLS communication session but outside of the HTTP session the server sends a sppPostDevDataResponse SOAP message containing subscription MO to the mobile device operation . The mobile device may use the sppPostDevData SOAP message to obtain further authentication information such as transmitting a sppPostDevDataResponse message with an AAAServerTrustRoot specified in the subscription MO operation . The response received from the server may include an authentication certificate operation .

Again similar to operations the mobile device and server may then release the communication session operation e.g. the TLS session that was established from operation . The mobile device may then disassociate from the Wi Fi access point operation and if the subscription was established successfully the mobile device may associate with the new credentials with the AP or another AP indicated in the subscription MO operation .

As a comparison of with the techniques illustrated in the HTTP server only returns a status code e.g. status code to the web browser on the mobile device . The subscription MO in processes is not embedded in an HTTP response received by a browser which would require the mobile device to intercept the session using a plugin to obtain the MO. With communication of the subscription MO in the communication session but not the HTTP session software applications such as a connection manager operating on the client is no longer dependent on browser interaction to obtain the subscription MO. Further because the server such as an OSU server is informed about the completion of user input it can tie the provision of the MO object to the specific client to a success of the session using the provided key. Thus a connection manager operating on the mobile device may receive the subscription MO and handle it as instructed without a browser or interaction with a web browser.

In addition to providing the Subscription MO in response to subscription provisioning the previously described techniques may be adapted to communicate additional or other MOs within flows. This includes flows used for provisioning username passwords or certificates and subscription remediation using OMA DM or SOAP based mechanisms.

Provisioning operations are commenced through a wireless network connection between the client and an available access point operation . Using this connection a communication session is established with a server such as an online sign up server operation . In the communication session the client receives a registration URI and key or other unique identifier to associate the session operation .

The client then may perform operations to access the URI in an HTTP HTTPS session with access to the URI providing the key or other unique identifier operation . This operation is followed by user operations conducted at the client to perform the registration process for example in a webpage accessible at the URI operation . Within the communication session but outside of the HTTP HTTPS session with the URI the client receives the management object operation . The management object is triggered upon completion of the registration process for example based on a communication between the web server hosting the registration and the OSU server.

Upon successful communication of the management object to the client the communication session with the OSU server may be closed operation . The client may then disassociate from the access point operation and associate with the access point indicated in the management object operation . In some cases the client will associate with the same access point as used for the provisioning.

Similar to the provisioning operations depicted in operations conducted at the access point or server s include establishing a communication session with the client operation . Using this connection a registration URI and key may be provided to the client operation .

A HTTP HTTPS session may be established to serve the web page s associated with the URI and key operation . A key from the client is received by the server and is used to identify the particular user and tie the HTTP session and registration operations to the particular client operation . The web page s associated with the URI may be used to receive registration information from the client. This registration information data submitted through the webpage is received by the server and then processed as appropriate operation . Mechanisms may be used to keep the HTTP HTTPS session alive with the client such as providing a 102 HTTP response operation .

Upon submission and validation of appropriate client data the registration process can be completed at the server side operation and the HTTP HTTPS session may be closed out. In response to completion of the registration process the management object may be transmitted to the client operation . The transmission of the management object occurs in the communication session but not the HTTP HTTPS session with the browser used to access the URI. Upon communication of the management object the communication session with the client may be closed operation .

Although the preceding examples of wireless network connections were provided with specific reference to Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 and Wi Fi Alliance communication standards it will be understood that a variety of other WWAN WLAN and WPAN protocols and standards may be used in connection with the techniques described herein. These standards include but are not limited to standards from 3GPP e.g. LTE LTE A HSPA UMTS IEEE 802.16 e.g. 802.16p or Bluetooth e.g. Bluetooth 4.0 or like standards defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards families. Other applicable network configurations may be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. It will be understood that communications on such communication networks may be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above may be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory hard drives portable storage devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media and any other machine readable storage medium or storage device wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer or networking device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques.

A machine readable storage medium or other storage device may include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . In the case of program code executing on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system machine may further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system machine may additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which may include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system machine with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification may have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples may stand on its own or may be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

Example 1 includes the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a device e.g. a user equipment UE for obtaining provisioning information for wireless network connectivity comprising establishing a communication session with a server receiving from the server a key and a universal resource indicator URI of a registration webpage hosted by a registration web server accessing the registration webpage at the URI using an HTTP session within the communication session to provide the key and registration information and receiving from the server outside of the HTTP session a Subscription Management Object MO in response to submission of the registration information in the HTTP session wherein the Subscription MO includes the provisioning information.

In Example 2 the subject matter of Example 1 can optionally include associating with a wireless network indicated in the provisioning information.

In Example 3 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 2 can optionally include the communication session being a Transport Layer Security TLS session established via an access point.

In Example 4 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 3 can optionally include Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM or Simple Object Access Protocol Extensible Markup Language SOAP XML communications occurring within the communication session.

In Example 5 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 4 can optionally include transmitting at least one HTTPS request in the HTTP session to provide the registration information using the registration webpage and receiving in response to the HTTPS request interim responses having a processing status code to prevent a HTTP session timeout until processing of the registration information is completed wherein the key is used to link the HTTP session established to the registration web server with the communication session established to the server and wherein upon completion of the HTTP session using the key generated the registration web server provides a signal to the server to indicate completion of processing of the registration information causing the server to transmit the Subscription MO to the UE if processing of the registration information is successfully completed.

In Example 6 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 5 can optionally include the server being an online sign up server configured for operation in a service provider data network and wherein the communication session with the server is performed in connection with communications via an access point of a wireless network.

In Example 7 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 6 can optionally include the communications via the access point occurring in connection with a standard defined by a Wi Fi Alliance Hotspot Specification and wherein the access point operates in accordance with a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family.

In Example 8 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 7 can optionally include the Subscription MO being to obtain provisioning of one or more of username password credentials and policies provisioning of certificate based credentials or subscription management for remediation of credentials.

Example 9 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 8 to include the subject matter embodied by a wireless communication device such as a user equipment UE comprising a transceiver comprising circuitry arranged to perform wireless communications with an initial access point and obtain provisioning information for wireless network connectivity to other access points by performing operations to transmit to a service provider via a communication session with the initial access point a request for the provisioning information receive from the service provider a universal resource indicator URI and a key transmit using at least one HTTPS request in an HTTP session a request to access the URI and to provide the key and registration information for wireless network connectivity and receive from the service provider a Subscription Management Object MO in response to exchange of the registration information the Subscription MO including the provisioning information.

In Example 10 the subject matter of Example 9 can optionally include the transceiver further comprising circuitry arranged to establish a wireless network connection with a second access point using the provisioning information the second access point being indicated in the provisioning information of the Subscription MO.

In Example 11 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 10 can optionally include the transceiver further comprising circuitry arranged to perform operations to receive from the service provider via the communication session a command to launch a browser to the URI and receive from the service provider at least one HTTPS response used to keep the HTTP session alive for the at least one HTTPS requests during processing of the registration information by the service provider.

In Example 12 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 11 can optionally include the communication session being an encrypted session facilitating an exchange of Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM or Simple Object Access Protocol Extensible Markup Language SOAP XML communications and wherein the provisioning information is received from the server in the OMA DM or SOAP XML communications.

In Example 13 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 12 can optionally include the transceiver further comprising circuitry to perform operations to communicate with a service provider data network to obtain provisioning of username password based or certificate based credentials.

In Example 14 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 9 12 can optionally include the wireless communications with the initial access point being performed according to a standard from an IEEE 802.11 standards family and wherein the operations to obtain the provisioning information are performed according to a standard defined by a Wi Fi Alliance Hotspot Specification.

Example 15 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 14 to include the subject matter embodied by a method performed by a machine e.g. a server or other computing system for providing wireless network provisioning information for a wireless network client comprising receiving a request for the provisioning information for the wireless network client transmitting a universal resource indicator URI and a key to the wireless network client in response to the request for provisioning information receiving a HTTPS request to the server at the URI the HTTPS request including the key to obtain registration information from the wireless network client transmitting a HTTPS response to the wireless network client the HTTPS response indicating successful processing of the registration information and transmitting a Subscription Management Object MO to the wireless network client the Subscription MO including provisioning information for to enable wireless network connectivity of the wireless network client to one or more preferred networks.

In Example 16 the subject matter of Example 15 can optionally include transmitting a command to initiate a browser of the wireless network client to access the URI wherein the browser of the wireless network client is used to transmit the HTTPS request and receive the HTTPS response and wherein the Subscription MO is provided to the wireless network client independent of the browser of the wireless network client.

In Example 17 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 16 can optionally include communications with the wireless network client occurring in a communication session encrypted according to a Transport Layer Security TLS standard and wherein data exchanged in the communications occurs at least in part based on an Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM or Simple Object Access Protocol Extensible Markup Language SOAP XML exchange of data.

In Example 18 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 17 can optionally include the key being associated with the wireless network client prior to transmitting the universal resource indicator to the wireless network client wherein the HTTPS request provides the key to track the registration information with the wireless network client and wherein the Subscription Management Object MO is transmitted to the wireless network client associated with the key in response to completion of the registration information.

In Example 19 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 15 18 can optionally include the provisioning information being included in the Subscription MO includes certificate based credentials.

Example 20 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 19 to include the subject matter embodied by a machine readable storage medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to provide provisioning information to a wireless network client by providing a universal resource indicator URI and a key to the wireless network client processing registration information from the wireless network client received in an HTTP session the registration information associated with the key and transmitting a Subscription Management Object MO to the wireless network client upon completion of the registration information the Subscription MO including the provisioning information wherein communications with the wireless network client occur in an encrypted communication session.

In Example 21 the subject matter of Example 20 can optionally include the Subscription MO being transmitted to the wireless network client in the encrypted communication session outside of the HTTP session established for exchange of the registration information.

Example 22 can include or can optionally be combined with all or portions of the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 1 21 to include the subject matter embodied by a system e.g. computing servers devices and like subsystems in a network the system comprising an online sign up server configured to provide provisioning information to a wireless network client the wireless network client connected to an access point in network communication with the online sign up server and the online sign up server configured to perform operations to provide a universal resource indicator URI and a key to the wireless network client process registration information from the wireless network client received in an HTTP session the registration information associated with the key and transmit a Subscription Management Object MO to the wireless network client upon completion of the registration information the Subscription MO including the provisioning information.

In Example 23 the subject matter of Example 22 can optionally include a policy server configured to provision network discovery and selection policies to respective subscribers including the wireless network client a subscription remediation server configured to remediate issues with one or more of credentials provisioned data or a subscription of the respective subscribers an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server configured to authenticate the respective subscribers using credentials obtained from the online sign up server and a certificate authority providing a certificate to the wireless network client through the AAA server.

In Example 24 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 22 23 can optionally include communications between the wireless network client and the sign up server occurring in an encrypted communication session with the Subscription MO being provided to the wireless network client in the encrypted communication session outside of the HTTP session established for exchange of the registration information.

In Example 25 the subject matter of one or any combination of Examples 22 24 can optionally include the Subscription MO being provided to the wireless network client in the encrypted communication session using an Open Mobile Alliance Device Management OMA DM or Simple Object Access Protocol Extensible Markup Language SOAP XML exchange of data according to a standard defined by a Wi Fi Alliance Hotspot Specification.

The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

