---

title: Messaging to and from wagering game machines
abstract: A method includes receiving, at a host gaming server, notifications of account logins from a number of wagering game machines from at least one wagering game establishment. The method includes receiving, at the host gaming server, messages from multiple messaging sources that comprise at least one of a social networking website, a microblogging website, and at least some of the number of wagering game machines, wherein the messages comprise messages related to activity at the at least one wagering game establishment that include game play at the number of wagering game machines and messages related to activity external to the at least one wagering game establishment. The method includes aggregating, by the host gaming server, the messages from the multiple messaging sources. The method includes filtering, by the host gaming server, the messages for each of the account logins to create filtered messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251648&OS=09251648&RS=09251648
owner: Bally Gaming, Inc.
number: 09251648
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130215
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 600 238 filed Feb. 17 2012.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. Copyright 2013 WMS Gaming Inc.

Embodiments of the inventive subject matter relate generally to game play and more particularly to messaging to and from a wagering game machine.

Wagering game machines such as slot machines video poker machines and the like have been a cornerstone of the gaming industry for several years. Generally the popularity of such machines depends on the likelihood or perceived likelihood of winning money at the machine and the intrinsic entertainment value of the machine relative to other available gaming options. Where the available gaming options include a number of competing wagering game machines and the expectation of winning at each machine is roughly the same or believed to be the same players are likely to be attracted to the most entertaining and exciting machines. Shrewd operators consequently strive to employ the most entertaining and exciting machines features and enhancements available because such machines attract frequent play and hence increase profitability to the operator. Therefore there is a continuing need for wagering game machine manufacturers to continuously develop new games and gaming enhancements that will attract frequent play.

This description of the embodiments is divided into six sections. The first section provides an introduction to some example embodiments while the second section provides a system environment. The third section describes example operations performed by some example embodiments. The fourth section describes an example wagering game machine architecture. The fifth section describes an example wagering game machine and the sixth section presents some general comments.

This section provides an introduction to some example embodiments. Some example embodiments provide for aggregating and filtering of media messages that are received from various messaging sources. After the filtering these media messages are downloaded to a number of different wagering game machines in one or more wagering game establishments. In some example embodiments a host gaming server configured to communicate with a number of local wagering game servers in a number of wagering game establishments can serve as a gateway to provide for this aggregation and filtering of media messages for download into the wagering game machines. For example these local wagering game servers can be associated with a bank of wagering game machines in a wagering game establishment. While operations as described as being performed by the host gaming server in some example embodiments some or all of these operations for aggregation and filtering can be performed by other components of the wagering game system. For example some of the filtering can be performed by the local wagering game servers or the wagering game machines.

These messaging sources can be both internal and external to the wagering game establishments. For example the messaging sources can include social networking websites microblogging websites news based websites sports wagering websites the wagering game machines local wagering game servers etc. Additionally the media messages can be any type of multimedia e.g. text images video audio etc. . The media messages can relate to wagering game play and non wagering game play activities. For example the messages can be status updates images etc. from a social networking website. In another example the messages can be blog entries posted on a microblogging website. In another example the messages can be scores updates etc. related to sporting events from a sports wagering website. In another example the messages can be related to wagering game play events at different wagering game machines at a same or different wagering game establishment relative to the wagering game machine to receive the messages. Examples of such wagering game play events can include a login by a wagering game player e.g. player account login loyalty card use etc. a win above a threshold amount any win a progressive jackpot win etc.

The host wagering game server can receive such as pull and then aggregate these different messages from different messaging sources and different accounts of these messaging sources. This aggregation at the host gaming server enables the filtering of these different messages prior to their downloading to the different wagering game machines.

The host gaming server can filter the messages prior to downloading to the wagering game machines based on a number of different filters. These filters can be unique to individual wagering game players a group of wagering game players a group of wagering game machines a particular wagering game establishment or groups of wagering game establishments etc. Filters for the messages can be specific to a wagering game player such that the player receives status updates etc. from their accounts at social networking websites or microblogging websites. Filters can be specific to the wagering game play. For example the wagering game player only receives messages regarding wagering game play from specific themed wagering game machines. To illustrate the wagering game player only receives game play messages regarding jackpot wins from the top three themed wagering game machines that the wagering game player has wagered at the most in the last six months. Filters can also be configured by different entities or persons e.g. the operator of the wagering game establishment the wagering game player etc. . In another example the wagering game player can receive game play messages that provide notification that one of a group of wagering game players friends or family has logged into any wagering game machine.

The filtering can also include a reduction or change in the media in the message. For example the filtering can change a video to an image reduce the resolution of an image etc. The filtering can also include scanning for any type of viruses to prevent the inclusion of any type of malware as part of the message. The filtering can also remove any type of inappropriate language or text. The filtering can remove any web links and can limit the total number of characters that can be displayed e.g. 170 characters .

The filtering of the messages can include a prioritizing of the messages that are to be displayed. One order of prioritization is displaying of the most recent items or activities first. Another order of prioritization is displaying of items or activities from friends or family first. Another order of prioritization is displaying of game play messages for the game the player is currently playing for the game the player has won the most monies within a given time period e.g. the last 90 days for game play activities that occurred in the same wagering game establishment as the establishment where the player is currently located etc. These orders of prioritization can be integrated. So that messages from a social networking website from family and messages regarding game play that providing a jackpot win in the same wagering game establishment has the highest priority. This order of prioritization can be defined by the wagering game player or the operator of the wagering game establishment. Also the operator of the wagering game establishment can override at least some of the priority defined by the wagering game player. For example the operator can require the inclusion of some advertisement at a high priority.

In addition to aggregating and filtering messages to be downloaded to the wagering game machines the host gaming server can also aggregate and filter messages flowing in the opposite direction. Specifically the host gaming server can also filter messages coming from the wagering game machines for subsequent posting at one of a number of different external websites social networking websites microblogging websites etc. . For example the host gaming server can receive and aggregate different game play messages from different wagering game machines. In another example a separate server in the wagering game establishment can be executing different operations e.g. loyalty systems guest services etc. . This server can provide messages related to the loyalty points guest services etc. for the wagering game players. The host gaming server also receives or pulls such messages from this server. Then the host gaming server can filter these messages. The host gaming server can then transmit these filtered messages to these websites. As an example the messages can provide notification of account login jackpot wins etc. that are then posted to the wagering game player s account on a social networking website or a microblogging website. The notifications can be text based screenshots video replays etc. The filtering of such messages can preclude certain information from being posted regarding the wagering game activity. For example the host gaming server can preclude the posting at an external website of the actual monetary amount won.

Accordingly some example embodiments provide a single gateway for media messages being downloaded to and received from different wagering game machines across multiple wagering game establishments. This gateway provides for aggregation and filtering of these media messages based on various filtering criteria.

This section describes an example system environment and presents structural aspects of some example embodiments. This section includes an example system and an example interface for presenting received messages on a wagering game machine. This section will discuss . The discussion of will describe a system that provides for aggregation and filtering of messages received from a multiple of different messaging sources and transmitting of filtered messages to different wagering game machines for display thereon. The discussion of will describe an example architecture of a host gaming server that is to aggregate and filter messages received from the multiple of different messaging sources. The discussion of will describe an example display of a wagering game machine for displaying filtered messages received from the host gaming server.

The microblogging server the social networking server the advertisement server the sports wagering server and the host gaming server are communicatively coupled together through a network . In some example embodiments the network is an unsecured network e.g. Internet . As further described below operations in the host gaming server receives and filters messages over the network from the different servers coupled thereto. Such filtering occurs prior to the messages being transmitted to the wagering game machines in the different wagering game establishments.

The wagering game establishment includes a number of wagering game servers represented as a wagering game server through a wagering game server and a number of wagering game machines represented as wagering game machines through and wagering game machines through . In some example embodiments the wagering game servers can be associated with a bank of wagering game machines for communications with the host gaming server . In this example the wagering game server is associated with the wagering game machines . The wagering game server is communicatively coupled to the wagering game machines and to a network . Also the wagering game server is associated with the wagering game machine . The wagering game server is communicatively coupled to the wagering game machines and to the network .

The wagering game establishment includes a number of wagering game servers represented as a wagering game server through a wagering game server and a number of wagering game machines represented as wagering game machines through and wagering game machines through . In some example embodiments the wagering game servers can be associated with a bank of wagering game machines for communications with the host gaming server . In this example the wagering game server is associated with the wagering game machines . The wagering game server is communicatively coupled to the wagering game machines and to a network . Also the wagering game server is associated with the wagering game machine . The wagering game server is communicatively coupled to the wagering game machines and to the network . The network and the network are communicatively coupled to a network . The host gaming server is also communicatively coupled to the network .

A more detailed block diagram of an example architecture of the host gaming server is depicted in which is described in more detail below. The wagering game machines and can receive and transmit media messages from and to the host gaming server through the wagering game servers and respectively. In particular the wagering game servers and can provide an interface for their associated wagering game machines back to the host gaming server . For example the messages can be exchanged between the wagering game machines and the host gaming server through the wagering game servers.

In the system there is transmission of different messages over the network. In some example embodiments the transmission of messages between the wagering game machines the wagering game server and the host gaming server are based on a gaming communications protocol e.g. Game to System G2S . The host gaming server can aggregate media messages received from a number of different messaging sources. In the example of the system the messaging sources include the microblogging server the social networking server the advertisement server the sports wagering server and the wagering game machines and .

The host gaming server receives messages from the microblogging server messages from the advertisement server messages from the social networking server and messages from the sports wagering server shown as circled As in . The messages going into the host gaming server are shown as messages shown as circled A in .

The host gaming server can receive identifications of wagering game players after they are logged into the wagering game machines. The host gaming server can also receive an indication of whether the wagering game players desire to opt in to receiving media messages during wagering game play at the wagering game machine. The host gaming server can also provide a web service external to the wagering game establishments to allow the wagering game players to set up a player account that can be related but separate from their login account at the wagering game machines at the wagering game establishments. This external player account can enable the wagering game player to stay connected to the wagering game machines at the wagering game establishments. For example the player can play nonwagering games that are linked to the wagering game machines at the wagering game establishments. The play of these nonwagering games can provide trophies unlock bonuses etc. for wagering game play at the wagering game machines.

Additionally the player can connect their accounts associated with these different messaging sources to enable access to data therein. For example the player can connect their account from the social networking website being hosted by the social networking server their account from the microblogging server being hosted by the microblogging server etc. The host gaming server can then receive messages from these player accounts at the different messaging sources using an Application Programming Interface API . While described herein as receiving the messages in some example embodiments the host gaming server pulls the messages from the different messaging sources. Such pulling of messages can be an alternative or an addition to the receiving of the messages. The messages received from the social networking server can include status updates videos pictures etc. from the accounts of the different wagering game players that have connected their social networking account to their player account. In another example the messages from the microblogging server can include blog entries text postings videos pictures etc. from those persons that are being followed by the wagering game players on their microblogging accounts. The messages from the sports wagering server and received by the host gaming server can include scores updates etc. related to sporting events. The messages from the advertisement server can include different types of advertisements that can be integrated into the other types of messages that are to be displayed at the wagering game machines.

The host gaming server can also receive messages from one or more of the wagering game machines and . These messages can relate to different types of wagering game play. Examples of such wagering game play can include a login by a wagering game player e.g. player account login loyalty card use etc. a win above a threshold amount any win a progressive jackpot win etc. The wagering game machines can be configured by the operator of the wagering game establishment the wagering game players etc. regarding whether these messages are transmitted back to the host gaming server the types of messages the data provided in such messages etc. For example some wagering game player can opt out of transmitting any messages back to the host gaming server . In another example the operator of the wagering game establishment can prohibit any data regarding amounts of the wins being included in the messages. In another example the wagering game player can prohibit the inclusion of their exact location for any messages messages regarding a win above a threshold amount etc.

In this example of five of the eight wagering game machines are transmitting messages back to the host gaming server shown as circled Cs in . In particular the wagering game machine and the wagering game machine transmit messages and messages respectively through the wagering game server back to the host gaming server through the networks and shown as messages messages and messages . The wagering game machine and the wagering game machine transmit messages and messages respectively through the wagering game server back to the host gaming server through the networks and shown as messages messages and messages . The wagering game machine transmits messages through the wagering game server back to the host gaming server through the networks and shown as messages messages and messages .

Other messaging sources can be separate servers in the wagering game establishments. In this example the wagering game establishment includes an establishment server that is communicatively coupled to the host gaming server through the network and the network . The wagering game establishment includes an establishment server that is communicatively coupled to the host gaming server through the network and the network . The establishment servers and can be executing different operations e.g. loyalty systems guest services etc. . The establishment servers and can provide messages related to the loyalty points guest services etc. for the wagering game players to the host gaming server . The establishment server transmits messages and the establishment server transmits messages to the host gaming server .

The host gaming server aggregates these different messages from these different messaging sources. The host gaming server also filters these different messages. The filtering can be based on any of a number of different filtering criteria. These filters can be unique to individual wagering game players a group of wagering game players a group of wagering game machines a particular wagering game establishment or groups of wagering game establishments etc. Filters for the messages can be for specific to a wagering game player such that the player receives status updates etc. from their accounts at social networking websites or microblogging websites. Filters can be specific to the wagering game play. For example the wagering game player only receives messages regarding wagering game play from specific themed wagering game machines. To illustrate the wagering game player only receives game play messages regarding progressive wins from the top three themed wagering game machines that the wagering game player has wagered at the most in the last six months and that are within the current wagering game establishment where the player is located. Filters can also be configured by different entities or persons e.g. the operator of the wagering game establishment the wagering game player etc. . In another example the wagering game player can receive game play messages that provide notification that one of a group of wagering game players friends or family has logged into any wagering game machine.

The filtering can also include a reduction or change in the media in the message. For example the filtering can change a video to an image reduce the resolution of an image etc. The filtering can also include scanning for any type of viruses to prevent the inclusion of any type of malware as part of the message. The filtering can also remove any type of inappropriate language or text. The filtering can remove any web links and can limit the total number of characters that can be displayed e.g. 170 characters . The filtering of the messages can include a prioritizing of the messages that are to be displayed. One order of prioritization is displaying of the most recent items or activities first. Another order of prioritization is displaying of items or activities from friends or family first. Another order of prioritization is displaying of game play messages for the game the player is currently playing for the game the player has won the most monies within a given time period e.g. the last 90 days for game play activities that occurred in the same wagering game establishment as the establishment where the player is currently located etc. These orders of prioritization can be integrated. So that messages from a social networking website from family and messages regarding game play that providing a jackpot win in the same wagering game establishment has the highest priority. This order of prioritization can be defined by the wagering game player or the operator of the wagering game establishment. Also the operator of the wagering game establishment can override at least some of the priority defined by the wagering game player. For example the operator can require the inclusion of some advertisement at a high priority.

After filtering the host gaming server downloads the filtered messages to the wagering game machines that are configured to receive the messages shown as circled Bs in . For example the host gaming server can transmit a first group of messages to a first wagering game machine based on a first filtering criteria a second group of messages to a second wagering game machine based on a second filtering criteria etc. In this example the filtered messages are shown as messages that are then dispersed over the networks based on their destinations to different wagering game establishments and different wagering game machines therein. In particular messages and messages are transmitted to the wagering game machines at the wagering game establishment . The messages are downloaded to the wagering game machine through the wagering game server shown as messages . The messages are downloaded to the wagering game machine and the wagering game machine through the wagering game server shown as messages and messages respectively. Messages and messages are transmitted to the wagering game machines at the wagering game establishment . The messages are downloaded to the wagering game machine through the wagering game server shown as messages . The messages are downloaded to the wagering game machine and the wagering game machine through the wagering game server shown as messages and messages respectively.

Accordingly the host gaming server can provide for aggregation and filtering of messages from different messaging services based on a number of different filtering criteria. Also the host gaming server can then download these filtered messages to particular wagering game machines across different wagering game establishments. As described above the downloaded filtered messages can be based a filter that is specific to the wagering game player that is logged in and playing the wagering game machine.

The host gaming server can also aggregate and filter messages that are to be downloaded to accounts that are external to the wagering game establishments. Specifically the host gaming server can also filter messages coming from the wagering game machines for subsequent posting at one of a number of different external websites the social networking website being hosted by the social networking server the microblogging website being hosted by the microblogging server etc. .

For example the host gaming server can receive and or pull and aggregate different game play messages from different wagering game machines. Then the host gaming server can filter these messages. The filtering can be based on filtering criteria defined by the wagering game player creating the wagering game play described in the game play messages the operator of the wagering game establishment where the wagering game play occurred etc. For example the operator of the wagering game establishment can prohibit any data regarding amounts of the wins being included in the messages. In another example the wagering game player can prohibit the inclusion of their exact location for any messages messages regarding a win above a threshold amount etc.

The host gaming server can then transmit these filtered messages to the servers for these websites. As an example the messages can provide notification of account login jackpot wins etc. that are then posted to the wagering game player s account on the social networking website hosted by the social networking server or their account on the microblogging website hosted by the microblogging server . The game play messages can be text based screenshots video replays etc. Additionally the game play messages can include links as part of a text message to enable a person to access a screenshot or video replay of the game play to access an online website to enable game play non wagering or actual wagering game play. The filtering of such messages can preclude certain information from being posted regarding the wagering game activity. For example the host gaming server can preclude the posting at an external website of the actual monetary amount won of any progressive jackpot wins etc.

In this example of the host gaming server is transmitting filtered messages to the social networking server for posting on a social network website and the microblogging server for posting on a microblogging website shown as circled Ds in . In particular the host gaming server transmits messages that are then transmitted as messages to the microblogging server and messages to the social networking server through the network .

In some example embodiments the system is configured such that the communications between the host gaming server and the wagering game servers and are not bi directional. In such a configuration the communications can be uni directional such that the messages are transmitted from the wagering game servers and to the host gaming server but not vice versa . Accordingly the host gaming server receives and aggregates the messages from the different messaging sources and transmits filtered messages to the servers external to the wagering game establishments e.g. the social networking server and the microblogging server . However in this configuration the host gaming server would not transmit the filtered messages to the wagering game machines or other components in the wagering game establishments.

The aggregation module the filter module and the I O module can be software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. For example the aggregation module the filter module and the I O module can be software executing on the processor . The nonvolatile machine readable media is configured to store unfiltered messages and filtered messages . The aggregation module can perform operations for aggregating and storing the messages from the different messaging sources as described herein . The filter module can perform operations for filtering the aggregated messages based on the different filtering criteria as described herein . The I O module can receive the messages and transmit the filtered messages to the different devices as described herein .

An example of filtered media messages being displayed is now described. In particular depicts a display of a wagering game machine for display filtered media messages according to some example embodiments. In particular depicts a display of a wagering game machine providing wagering game play by wagering game players. For example with reference to the display can be a display for the wagering game machines and 

The display includes reels that are part of a slot wagering game play. The display also includes a window to display the amount being wagered for a spin of the reels . A window displays the amount of game credit that the wagering game player has available on the device. A button is selectable by the wagering game player to initiate wagering game play by spinning of the reels .

The display also includes a message ticker for displaying the different media messages being received from the host gaming server . In this example the message ticker is positioned on the left hand side and includes different text based messages from different messaging sources a message a message a message a message a message a message and a message . In some example embodiments the message ticker can be positioned in other locations on the display on a secondary display of the wagering game machine etc. Also in some example embodiments the messages can include other types of media e.g. images video audio etc. .

The message is a message from a social networking website that provides a status update going to work for a friend Bob Smith of the wagering game player logged in at the wagering game machine. The message is a message from a sports wagering website a sports news website etc. that provides a final score of a basketball game. The message is a message from a different wagering game machine in a same or different wagering game establishment that provides notification of a jackpot win for a wagering game machine having theme A.

The message is a message from a different wagering game machine in a same or different wagering game establishment that provides notification of an account login by a different wagering game player Billy White at a particular wagering game machine in a particular wagering game establishment. For example this different wagering game player can be considered a friend of the current wagering game player wherein this different wagering game player gives access to this information to his friends family or any other defined group of wagering game players. The message is a message of an example blog entry from a microblogging account of a particular professional athlete that the current wagering game player is following on a microblogging website. The blog entry is an update from the particular professional athlete that provides an update regarding their injury.

The message is a message providing an advertisement from an advertisement server that can be incorporated into the message ticker. Such advertising can generate revenue for the operator of the wagering game establishment where the wagering game machine is located. The message is a message from a different wagering game machine in a same or different wagering game establishment that provides notification of a progressive win by a different wagering game player at a particular wagering game machine in a particular wagering game establishment. Similar to above this different wagering game player can be considered a friend of the current wagering game player wherein this different wagering game player gives access to this information to his friends family or any other defined group of wagering game players.

This section describes operations associated with some example embodiments. In the discussion below the flow charts will be described with reference to the block diagrams presented above. However in some example embodiments the operations can be performed by logic not described in the block diagrams.

In certain embodiments the operations can be performed by executing instructions residing on machine readable media e.g. software while in other embodiments the operations can be performed by hardware and or other logic e.g. firmware . In some embodiments the operations can be performed in series while in other embodiments one or more of the operations can be performed in parallel. Moreover some embodiments can perform less than all the operations shown in any flow diagram.

The section will discuss . The discussion of will describe operations performed by a host gaming server for aggregating filtering and downloading of messages into wagering game machines. The discussion of will describe operations performed by a wagering game machine for receiving and transmitting of messages.

At block the host gaming server receives notifications of account logins from a number of wagering game machines from at least one wagering game establishment. For example with reference to the I O module of the host gaming server receives notifications of different account logins of different wagering game players at wagering game machines at one or more different wagering game establishments. This receiving of notifications can occur asynchronously and can continue to occur as the other operations described in are being performed. The account logins can be logins of player accounts for the specific wagering game establishment logins of player accounts for specific wagering game manufacturers use of a loyalty card or any other type of player access that identifies the wagering game player. Operations of the flowchart continue at block .

At block the host gaming server receives messages from multiple messaging sources. For example with reference to the I O module can receive the messages from one or more of the microblogging server the social networking server the advertisement server the sports wagering server or any of the wagering game machines and . Operations of the flowchart continue at block .

At block the host gaming server aggregates the messages from the multiple messaging sources. For example with reference to the aggregation module aggregates messages received from the multiple messaging sources. The aggregation module can also store these messages in the nonvolatile machine readable media . Operations of the flowchart continue at block .

At block the host gaming server configures filters of the messages for the account logins. For example with reference to the filter module can configure these filters. These filters can be unique to individual wagering game players a group of wagering game players a group of wagering game machines a particular wagering game establishment or groups of wagering game establishments etc. Filters for the messages can be for specific to a wagering game player such that the player receives status updates etc. from their accounts at social networking websites or microblogging websites. Filters can be specific to the wagering game play. For example the wagering game player only receives messages regarding wagering game play from specific themed wagering game machines. To illustrate the wagering game player only receives game play messages regarding jackpot wins from the top three themed wagering game machines that the wagering game player has wagered at the most in the last six months. Filters can also be configured by different entities or persons e.g. the operator of the wagering game establishment the wagering game player etc. . In another example the wagering game player can receive game play messages that provide notification that one of a group of wagering game players friends or family has logged into any wagering game machine. The filtering can also include a reduction or change in the media in the message. For example the filtering can change a video to an image reduce the resolution of an image etc. The filtering can also include scanning for any type of viruses to prevent the inclusion of any type of malware as part of the message. The filtering can also remove any type of inappropriate language or text. The filtering can remove any web links and can limit the total number of characters that can be displayed e.g. 170 characters . The filtering of the messages can include a prioritizing of the messages that are to be displayed. One order of prioritization is displaying of the most recent items or activities first. Another order of prioritization is displaying of items or activities from friends or family first. Another order of prioritization is displaying of game play messages for the game the player is currently playing for the game the player has won the most monies within a given time period e.g. the last 90 days for game play activities that occurred in the same wagering game establishment as the establishment where the player is currently located etc. These orders of prioritization can be integrated. So that messages from a social networking website from family and messages regarding game play that providing a jackpot win in the same wagering game establishment has the highest priority. This order of prioritization can be defined by the wagering game player or the operator of the wagering game establishment. Also the operator of the wagering game establishment can override at least some of the priority defined by the wagering game player. For example the operator can require the inclusion of some advertisement at a high priority. Operations of the flowchart continue at block .

At block the host gaming server filters the messages based on the filter of the messages for the account logins to create filtered messages. For example with reference to the filter module performs the filtering of the messages based on the filters configured for the different account logins. Operations of the flowchart continue at block .

At block the host gaming server transmits the filtered messages to the number of wagering game machines for display at the number of wagering game machines. For example with reference to the I O module transmits the filtered messages to one or more of the number of wagering game machines and based on the player that is logged in. Accordingly different wagering game machines can receive different filtered messages based on the player that is logged in. Operations of the flowchart are complete.

At block a wagering game module executing in a wagering game machine receives a player login for wagering game play at the wagering game machine. As described above the account logins can be logins of player accounts for the specific wagering game establishment logins of player accounts for specific wagering game manufacturers use of a loyalty card or any other type of player access that identifies the wagering game player. Operations of the flowchart continue at block and block .

At block a message module executing in the wagering game machine determines whether the wagering game machine in a state that authorizes receipt of messages from multiple messaging sources. Examples of different states can include active wagering game play or idle. In some example embodiments active wagering game play is defined as any monetary amount being wagered within a defined time threshold e.g. last 30 seconds last minute etc. . In some example embodiments active wagering game play is defined as a monetary amount being wagered that is above a monetary threshold e.g. one dollar 10 dollars 50 dollars etc. within a define time threshold. In some example embodiments active wagering game play is defined as having any monies deposited in the wagering game machine for wagering game play. In some example embodiments active wagering game play is defined as having monies deposited in the wagering game machine for wagering game play that is above a monetary threshold. If the state of the wagering game machine is not defined as active wagering game play the state is considered idle. In some example embodiments the state that authorizes receipt of messages is active wagering game play. In some example embodiments the state is not checked and the messages are received regardless of the state of the wagering game machine. If the wagering game machine is in a state that authorizes receipt of messages operations of the flowchart continue at block . Otherwise operations of the flowchart for this first path are complete.

At block the message module executing in the wagering game machine determines whether the wagering game player authorized receipt of messages from multiple messaging sources. In particular the wagering game player can be presented the option after login to receive these messages or this option can be part of their configuration settings. Accordingly the message module verifies the player authorization of whether any messages are received only a specific group or type of messages e.g. only game play messages from other wagering game machines in the same wagering game establishment etc. If the wagering game player did authorize operations of the flowchart continue at block . Otherwise operations of the flowchart for this first path are complete.

At block the message module executing in the wagering game machine transmits to the host gaming server an identification of a wagering game player for the player login and an authorization to receive the messages from the multiple messaging sources. For example with reference to the message modules in the wagering game machines can transmit the identification and authorization including any limits on the types of messages over the networks and to the host gaming server . Operations of the flowchart continue at block .

At block the message module executing in the wagering game machine receives from the host gaming server the messages from the multiple messaging sources after being filtered by the host gaming server. For example with reference to the message modules in the wagering game machines can the messages over the networks and from the host gaming server . Operations of the flowchart continue at block .

At block the message module executing in the wagering game machine displays the messages on a display of the wagering game machine. For example with reference to the message module can display the messages on the display . As described above in some example embodiments the messages can be displayed in other formats different locations on the main display or in secondary displays of the wagering game machine. Operations of the flowchart for this first path are complete.

At block the message module executing in the wagering game machine receives a wagering game play event at wagering game machine. Examples of such wagering game play events can include a login by a wagering game player e.g. player account login loyalty card use etc. a win above a threshold amount any win a progressive jackpot win etc. Operations of the flowchart continue at block .

At block the message module executing in the wagering game machine determines whether the wagering game player authorized output of a message for the wagering game play event. The wagering game player can authorize messages for all some or no wagering game play events. For example the player can authorize transmission of messages for events related to wins wherein the message does not identify the player the amount or their location. If the wagering game player did authorize output of the message operations of the flowchart continue at block . Otherwise operations of the flowchart for this second path return to block to receive the next wagering game play event.

At block the message module executing in the wagering game machine transmits from the wagering game machine to the host gaming server a message describing the wagering game event to the host gaming server. Operations of the flowchart for this second path return to block to receive the next wagering game play event. The operations for this second path can continue until the wagering game player logs off their account from this wagering game machine.

This section describes an example wagering game architecture. depicts a block diagram illustrating a wagering game machine architecture according to some example embodiments. As shown in the wagering game machine architecture includes a wagering game machine which includes a central processing unit CPU connected to main memory . The CPU can include any suitable processor such as an Intel Pentium processor Intel Core 2 Duo processor AMD Opteron processor or UltraSPARC processor. The main memory includes a wagering game module and a message module . In some example embodiments the wagering game module can present wagering games such as video poker video black jack video slots video lottery etc. in whole or part. The message module can receive transmit and process messages as described herein .

The CPU is also connected to an input output I O bus which can include any suitable bus technologies such as an AGTL frontside bus and a PCI backside bus. The I O bus is connected to a payout mechanism primary display secondary display value input device player input device information reader and storage unit . The player input device can include the value input device to the extent the player input device is used to place wagers. The I O bus is also connected to an external system interface which is connected to external systems e.g. wagering game networks .

In one embodiment the wagering game machine can include additional peripheral devices and or more than one of each component shown in . For example in one embodiment the wagering game machine can include multiple external system interfaces and or multiple CPUs . In one embodiment any of the components can be integrated or subdivided.

Any component of the architecture can include hardware firmware and or machine readable media including instructions for performing the operations described herein. Machine readable media includes any mechanism that provides i.e. stores and or transmits information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a wagering game machine computer etc. . For example tangible machine readable media includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory machines etc. Machine readable media also includes any media suitable for transmitting software over a network.

In some example embodiments the wagering game machine architecture can have a separate set of hardware firmware and software for processing the messages. Accordingly the additional components can include a separate external system interface processor volatile and non volatile machine readable media etc. for receiving and processing the messages as described herein. Also instead of the video output from the CPU being coupled to primary display the video output is coupled to this additional processor for processing the messages. This additional processor can then combine the conventional wagering game play video output e.g. spinning reels etc. from the CPU with the messages to create a combined image that is then displayed on the primary display . Accordingly the message module can be executing in this additional processor separate from the CPU .

The wagering game machine comprises a housing and includes input devices including value input devices and a player input device . For output the wagering game machine includes a primary display for displaying information about a basic wagering game. The primary display can also display information about a bonus wagering game and a progressive wagering game. The wagering game machine also includes a secondary display for displaying wagering game events wagering game outcomes and or signage information. While some components of the wagering game machine are described herein numerous other elements can exist and can be used in any number or combination to create varying forms of the wagering game machine .

The value input devices can take any suitable form and can be located on the front of the housing . The value input devices can receive currency and or credits inserted by a player. The value input devices can include coin acceptors for receiving coin currency and bill acceptors for receiving paper currency. Furthermore the value input devices can include ticket readers or barcode scanners for reading information stored on vouchers cards or other tangible portable storage devices. The vouchers or cards can authorize access to central accounts which can transfer money to the wagering game machine .

The player input device comprises a plurality of push buttons on a button panel for operating the wagering game machine . In addition or alternatively the player input device can comprise a touch screen mounted over the primary display and or secondary display .

The various components of the wagering game machine can be connected directly to or contained within the housing . Alternatively some of the wagering game machine s components can be located outside of the housing while being communicatively coupled with the wagering game machine using any suitable wired or wireless communication technology.

The operation of the basic wagering game can be displayed to the player on the primary display . The primary display can also display a bonus game associated with the basic wagering game. The primary display can include a cathode ray tube CRT a high resolution liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display light emitting diodes LEDs or any other type of display suitable for use in the wagering game machine . Alternatively the primary display can include a number of mechanical reels to display the outcome. In the wagering game machine is an upright version in which the primary display is oriented vertically relative to the player. Alternatively the wagering game machine can be a slant top version in which the primary display is slanted at about a thirty degree angle toward the player of the wagering game machine . In yet another embodiment the wagering game machine can exhibit any suitable form factor such as a free standing model bartop model mobile handheld model or workstation console model.

A player begins playing a basic wagering game by making a wager via the value input device . The player can initiate play by using the player input device s buttons or touch screen . The basic game can include arranging a plurality of symbols along a payline which indicates one or more outcomes of the basic game. Such outcomes can be randomly selected in response to player input. At least one of the outcomes which can include any variation or combination of symbols can trigger a bonus game.

In some embodiments the wagering game machine can also include an information reader which can include a card reader ticket reader bar code scanner RFID transceiver or computer readable storage medium interface. In some embodiments the information reader can be used to award complimentary services restore game assets track player habits etc.

This detailed description refers to specific examples in the drawings and illustrations. These examples are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the inventive subject matter. These examples also serve to illustrate how the inventive subject matter can be applied to various purposes or embodiments. Other embodiments are included within the inventive subject matter as logical mechanical electrical and other changes can be made to the example embodiments described herein. Features of various embodiments described herein however essential to the example embodiments in which they are incorporated do not limit the inventive subject matter as a whole and any reference to the invention its elements operation and application are not limiting as a whole but serve only to define these example embodiments. This detailed description does not therefore limit embodiments of the invention which are defined only by the appended claims. Each of the embodiments described herein are contemplated as falling within the inventive subject matter which is set forth in the following claims.

