---

title: Visualization of the reach of a post by a member of an on-line social networking system
abstract: A system for visualizing the reach of a post by a member of an on-line social networking system may be designed to increase awareness of the members, as to which degree their posted updates are noticed and reacted to by other members. When a member creates a post, either through the on-line social networking website itself or through an application programming interface (API) that allows to include a share user interface (UI) control on a third web party site, the system monitors events associated with the post, collects statistics with respect to the monitored events and uses this data to generate a visualization of the reach of that post. Example visualization provides the creator of the a sense of how many other members interacted with the post.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08930819&OS=08930819&RS=08930819
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 08930819
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131213
---
This application relates to the technical fields of software and or hardware technology and in one example embodiment to system and method to visualize the reach of a post by a member of an on line social networking system.

An on line social network may be viewed as a platform to connect people in virtual space. An on line social network may be a web based platform such as e.g. a social networking web site and may be accessed by a user via a web browser. An on line social network may be a business focused social network that is designed specifically for the business community where registered members establish and document networks of people they know and trust professionally. Each registered member may be represented by a member profile. A member profile may be represented by one or more web pages. A member s profile web page of a social networking web site may emphasize employment history and education of the associated member.

A member of on line social network may be permitted to share information with other members by posting an update that would appear on respective news feed pages of the other members. An update may be an original message a link to an on line publication a re share of a post by another member etc. Members that are presented with such an update on their news feed page may choose to indicate that they like the post may be permitted to contribute a comment etc.

A method and system to visualize the reach of a post by a member of an on line social networking system is described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of an embodiment of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

As used herein the term or may be construed in either an inclusive or exclusive sense. Similarly the term exemplary is merely to mean an example of something or an exemplar and not necessarily a preferred or ideal means of accomplishing a goal. Additionally although various exemplary embodiments discussed below may utilize Java based servers and related environments the embodiments are given merely for clarity in disclosure. Thus any type of server environment including various system architectures may employ various embodiments of the application centric resources system and method described herein and is considered as being within a scope of the present invention.

For the purposes of this description the phrase an on line social networking application may be referred to as and used interchangeably with the phrase an on line social network or merely a social network. It will also be noted that an on line social network may be any type of an on line social network such as e.g. a professional network an interest based network or any on line networking system that permits users to join as registered members. For the purposes of this description registered members of an on line social network may be referred to as simply members.

Each member of an on line social network is represented by a member profile also referred to as a profile of a member or simply a profile . A member profile may be associated with social links that indicate that member s connection to other members of the social network. Any two members of a social network may indicate their mutual willingness to be connected in the context of the social network in that they can view each other s profiles profile recommendations and endorsements for each other and otherwise be in touch via the social network. Members who are connected in the context of a social network may be termed each other s connections. 

An example system for visualizing the reach of a post by a member of an on line social networking system may be designed to increase awareness of the members as to which degree their posted updates are noticed and reacted to by other members. For the purposes of this description the terms post update and share may be used interchangeably to describe information provided by a member that is viewable by other members on their respective customized news feed web pages. A member who created such an update may be referred to as a focus member to distinguish this member from other members who may be viewing the post commenting with respect to the post re sharing the post etc. A system for visualizing the reach of a post by a member of an on line social networking system may be referred to as an updates visibility system.

When a member creates a post either through the on line social networking website itself or through an application programming interface API that allows to include a share user interface UI control on a third web party site the updates visibility system captures what has been shared and tracks who has viewed it who liked it who commented on it as well as who has re shared it and who has clicked on the post to view the shared item e.g. an article . The updates visibility system monitors events associated with the post collects statistics with respect to the monitored events and uses this data to generate a visualization of the reach of that post. Example visualization provides the creator of the post the focus member a sense of how many other members viewed and reacted to the post by commenting liking re sharing etc. In the context of an on line social networking system the operation of liking entails a member clicking on a like visual control that may be provided as associated with a post.

The events associated with the post may be shown in the visualization generated by the updates visibility system as dots having a color or pattern that represents respective types of one or more associated events. The events associated with the post may be represented by other symbols or graphics and may be differentiated by the use of different shapes sizes positioning etc. A single item of graphics e.g. a dot may represent a single event or several events. In one embodiment the dots representing events associated with a post are separated by the associated connection distance between the focus member and the originator of the event. For example the dots associated with events originated by the first degree connections of the focus member are shown closer to a certain focal point of the visualization and also separated from the dots that represent reactions of members having greater connection distance with respect to the focus members. Connection distance may be expressed in degrees where direct connections of a member are considered first degree connections other members that are not directly connected to the member but connected to at least one of the member connections are considered second degree connections still further members that are not directly connected to the members and are not connections of the member s connections but are connections of the second degree connections of the member are considered third degree connections etc.

Visualization of data with respect to a post may be provided automatically on the customized news feed web page of the focus member or e.g. on the profile page of the focus member. In some embodiments rolling over the visualization e.g. positioning a cursor over the visualization or touching the area of a touch screen where the visualization is being presented may cause the content of the post to be presented e.g. the content of the article that is the subject of the post . In one embodiment the updates visibility system may also be configured to generate visualizations of events associated with multiple posts may be termed an aggregate visualization. Example single post and aggregate visualizations are illustrated in which is described further below.

An example method and system to visualize the reach of a post by a member of an on line social networking system may be implemented in the context of a network environment illustrated in . As shown in the network environment may include client systems and and a server system . The server system in one example embodiment may host an on line social networking system . As explained above each member of an on line social network is represented by a member profile that contains personal and professional information about the member and that may be associated with social links that indicate the member s connection to other member profiles in the on line social network. Member profiles and related information may be stored in a database as member profiles .

The client systems and may run respective browser applications such as e.g. a browser application and or respective mobile applications such as e.g. a mobile app and may have access to the server system via a communications network . The communications network may be a public network e.g. the Internet a mobile communication network or any other network capable of communicating digital data . As shown in the server system also hosts an updates visibility system . In one example embodiment the updates visibility system is configured to track events associated with a post by a focus member and to generate visualizations of the tracked events. The tracked events may be stored in the database as events data . An example updates visibility system is illustrated in .

Also shown in is a visualization selector . The visualization selector may be configured to randomly select between one or more visualizations of the events data with respect to respective single posts and an aggregate visualization for presentation on a customized news feed page of the focus member. The process of determining whether to present a visualization of member reactions to one or several posts and determining which visualization is to be presented is described further below with reference to .

Also shown in is a stale state detector . The stale state detector may be configured to detect lack of recent activity with respect to a post and present a lack of recent activity message to the focus member. The stale state detector may also be configured to identify a post as stale based on how recently the post has been created and how recently an event associated with the post has been detected.

As shown in the method commences at operation when the activity monitor of monitors activity in the on line social networking system with respect to an update posted by a focus member a post to collect events data for each event associated with the post. As explained above the monitored events may be views of the posted update clicks on the post likes comments re shares etc. At operation the connection distance calculator of determines a member that originated the event the originator member and a connection distance between the originator member and the focus member.

At operation the events data access module of accesses events data associated with a particular post by the focus member and at operation the visualization generator of generates a visualization of the events data. The visualization of the events data includes respective visual representations of the one or more events. Example visualizations of events data are described further below e.g. with respect to . As explained above a visual representation of events associated with a post may reflect connection distances of respective members of the on line social network associated with the one or more events. A connection distance indicates a degree of association between a member of the on line social networking system and the focus member. The visualization delivery module of communicates the visualization of the events data to a client system for presentation on a customized news feed page of the focus member at operation .

As is shown in the visualization events associated with the two or more posts are also represented by dots that are also spatially separated such as some of the dots appear in the inner most circle other dots appear in the next tier circle while still further dots appear in the outer circle . The three circles and represent the degrees of connection of the member the focus member who posted all updates represented in the aggregate visualization and the other members of the on line social networking system who interacted with the post e.g. by viewing it commenting on it etc. The dots that appear in the inner most circle represent events associated with the post that were initiated by those members of the on line social networking system that have a first degree connection with the focus member. The dots that appear in the next tier circle represent events associated with the post that were initiated by those members of the on line social networking system that have a second degree connection with the focus member. The dots that appear in the outer circle represent events associated with the post that were initiated by those members of the on line social networking system that have a third degree connection with the focus member. In some embodiments the dots that appear in the outer circle represent events associated with the post that were initiated by those members of the on line social networking system that have a third degree connection and beyond with the focus member.

At operation the updates visibility system of determines whether a focus member has shares whether the focus member has posted any updates that could be original posts a link to further content a re share of a post by another member of the on line networking system etc. . If it is determined at operation that the focus member has not yet posted anything or if the focus member has not posted anything for a predetermined period of time such as e.g. in the last two months the updates visibility system presents at operation a so called share teaser message encouraging the focus member to start or to resume sharing information with the other members of the on line social networking system. If it is determined at operation that the focus member has indeed posted at least one update the updates visibility system determines at operation whether the focus member has posted more than one update. If the focus member has posted just one update or if only a single update by the focus member has been determined to be recent enough the method proceeds to operation and the updates visibility system generates a visualization of member reactions to a single post at operation which may be similar to the visualization shown in or somewhat different depending on how many events have been detected with respect to the post which is described in further detail further below. The operation has a label Single WVMS where the WVMS abbreviation stands for Who Viewed My Share. 

If it is determined at operation that the focus member has posted more than one update the method accesses carousel and proceeds to operation . The carousel comprises respective data bundles for the posts created by the focus member and also an aggregate data bundle for a combination of multiple posts created by the focus member. A data bundle may include data with respect to the events associated with the post and may also or alternatively include a representation of a visualization of the events associated with the post. At operation the updates visibility system determines whether one of the posts is associated with a recent activity e.g. whether a recent event has been detected with respect to the post and presents a visualization associated with a post that has been determined as associated with the most recent activity. If it has been determined at operation that none of the posts by the focus member are associated with recent activity e.g. no member of the on line networking system has views commented on or re shared any of the posts by the focus member for a predetermined amount of time the updates visibility system uses the carousel to select randomly or according to one or more rules a single post visualization or an aggregate visualization to be presented to the focus member. In one embodiment the visualizations are created on the fly. When the page loads the data that is sent from the backend is processed and a visualization of the first post is rendered. When the user clicks on the next button a request is made to the backend to fetch the next post and the visualization for that post is created. The carousel moves to show the corresponding post.

The state of a post may be determined based on one or more rules. For example a post may be determined to have a state of Low Traction when the post has only view events no likes comments or re shares etc. the total number of views is less than a predetermined value e.g. less than 20 and if the post has been viewed only by members that are first degree connections of the focus member. In one embodiment a post may be determined to have a state of Recent Low Traction if the post satisfies the conditions for the Low Traction status but has been posted within a predetermined period of time e.g. less than 12 hours ago . A post may have a state of Recent if the post has been created within a predetermined period of time e.g. within the last three days. The stale state of a post may be determined based on how recently the post has been created and also based on activity associated with the post in the on line social networking system. For example a post may be considered Stale if it was created more than five days ago or if no new events have been detected with respect to the post in the last 24 hours. In some embodiments the state of a post may be displayed together with a post itself.

As shown in the states of an aggregate data bundle representing events associated with multiple posts may indicate that one or more of the posts from the aggregate have been viewed by members that are first degree connections of the focus member who posted the post 1Degree Views that there is activity other than views associated with one or more of the posts from the aggregate initiated by members that are first degree connections of the focus member 1Degree Activity that there are events associated with one or more of the posts from the aggregate initiated by members that are second degree connections of the focus member 2Degree that there are events associated with one or more of the posts from the aggregate initiated by members that are third degree connections of the focus member 3Degree that there is recent activity associated with one or more of the posts from the aggregate Recent Activity and that the aggregate is stale Stale .

As mentioned above the updates visibility system may be configured to place the representations of events e.g. dots within a visualization of reaction to post according to a predetermined logic. is an illustration of an example approach according to which the dots representing events are placed within the circles that correspond to respective connection distances between a focus member and respective members associated with the events. As shown in a dot may represent multiple events and each consecutive dot may be placed in a predetermined position within a respective circle. For example if the user has no posts that are eligible for visualization the user may be presented with a teaser visualization that encourages the user to share post an update. Otherwise the system of determines whether the post is associated with a predetermined default with views and connections with views only with connections only whether there are no events originated by the user s 2nd degree or the 3rd degree connections and whether there are no events originated by the user s 3rd degree connections. The system may then determine whether the subject visualization is associated with a default visualization type of with an aggregate visualization setup height and width of visualization and draw a visualization based on the determined parameters. The radii of circles and the position of dots are based on predetermined values.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a cursor control device a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system with the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing and encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of embodiments of the present invention or that is capable of storing and encoding data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media. Such media may also include without limitation hard disks floppy disks flash memory cards digital video disks random access memory RAMs read only memory ROMs and the like.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Thus a method and system to visualize the reach of a post by a member of an on line social networking system has been described. Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

