---

title: Music generator
abstract: Techniques are disclosed relating to generating music content. In one embodiment, a method includes determining one or more musical attributes based on external data and generating music content based on the one or more musical attributes. Generating the music content may include selecting from stored sound loops or tracks and/or generating new tracks based on the musical attributes. Selected or generated sound loops or tracks may be layered to generate the music content. Musical attributes may be determined in some embodiments based on user input (e.g., indicating a desired energy level), environment information, and/or user behavior information. Artists may upload tracks, in some embodiments, and be compensated based on usage of their tracks in generating music content. In some embodiments, a method includes generating sound and/or light control information based on the musical attributes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812144&OS=08812144&RS=08812144
owner: Be Labs, LLC
number: 08812144
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130816
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 702 868 filed on Sep. 19 2012 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 684 535 filed on Aug. 17 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 786 479 filed on Mar. 15 2013.

Streaming music services typically provide songs to users via the Internet. Users may subscribe to these services and stream music to a web browser or application. Examples of such services include PANDORA SPOTIFY GROOVESHARK etc. Often a user can select a genre of music or specific artists to stream. Users can typically rate songs e.g. using a star rating or a like dislike system and some music services may tailor which songs are streamed to a user based on previous ratings. The cost of running a streaming service which may include paying royalties for each streamed song is typically covered by user subscription costs and or advertisements played between songs.

Song selection may be limited by licensing agreements and the number of songs written for a particular genre. Users may become tired of hearing the same songs in a particular genre. Further these services may not tune music to users tastes environment behavior etc.

Techniques are disclosed relating to generating music content. In one embodiment a method includes determining one or more musical attributes based on external data and generating music content based on the one or more musical attributes. In one embodiment generating the music content may include selecting from stored sound loops or tracks and or generating new sound loops based on the musical attributes. In one embodiment selected or generated tracks may be layered to generate the music content.

Musical attributes may be determined in some embodiments based on user input environment information and or user behavior information. In some embodiments user input may indicate musical attributes directly. In other embodiments user input may include words associated with particular moods a desired energy level etc. In some embodiments environment information may include lighting and or sound levels for example. In some embodiments user behavior information may include user location information and or user purchasing information for example.

Artists may upload tracks in some embodiments and may be compensated based on usage of their tracks in generating music content. In some embodiments a method includes generating sound and or light control information based on the musical attributes. In some embodiments generating music content may reduce royalty payments for streaming music providers and may provide users with new music content within a particular genre or mood of music.

This specification includes references to one embodiment or an embodiment. The appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment. Particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner consistent with this disclosure.

Various units circuits or other components may be described or claimed as configured to perform a task or tasks. In such contexts configured to is used to connote structure by indicating that the units circuits components include structure e.g. circuitry that performs the task or tasks during operation. As such the unit circuit component can be said to be configured to perform the task even when the specified unit circuit component is not currently operational e.g. is not on . The units circuits components used with the configured to language include hardware for example circuits memory storing program instructions executable to implement the operation etc. Reciting that a unit circuit component is configured to perform one or more tasks is expressly intended not to invoke 35 U.S.C. 112 f for that unit circuit component.

This disclosure initially describes with reference to an exemplary system and music generator. It then describes exemplary sampling techniques and an exemplary method for generating music content with reference to . In some embodiments a music generator as described herein may generate music content based on determined musical attributes in order to match user mood affect customer behavior match an environment etc. In some embodiments such music content may reduce royalty payments by music providers and provide variety within a particular genre or mood of music.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a system for generating music content is shown. In the illustrated embodiment system includes processor s memory track database loop database and user database . In other embodiments tracks and loops may be stored in a single database. In one embodiment processor s and memory are included in a user device such as a mobile phone for example and may be configured to receive external data via various input elements of the user device or via a network. In another embodiment processors s memory and or databases are included on a server and configured to receive external data via a network for example. In still other embodiments processor s and or memory may be distributed across multiple devices in a system. External data may include user input information about a listener environment information about user behavior etc. in some embodiments. In various embodiments functions of system described herein may be performed by hardware software firmware or a combination thereof.

Processor s in the illustrated embodiment are coupled to memory and configured to execute program instructions stored in memory . In various embodiments processor s may include multiple processing cores and or system may include multiple processors. In the illustrated embodiment processor s are configured to process external data .

Memory in the illustrated embodiment stores program instructions that are executable to perform various operations including those of music generator . Memory may be a non transitory computer readable storage medium in various embodiments. In some embodiments memory may be distributed e.g. with a portion of memory included in a server and a portion included in a user device. In addition to program instructions memory may be configured to store various metadata indicating musical attributes or other information music content such as tracks or loops user information etc. in some embodiments.

As used herein the term loop refers to sound information for a single instrument over a particular time interval. Loops may be played in a repeated manner e.g. a 30 second loop may be played four times in a row to generate 2 minutes of music content but loops may also be played once e.g. without being repeated. As used herein the term track may refer a single loop or to an interval that includes multiple loops that are layered on top of one another. Tracks also may or may not be played in a repeated manner.

Music generator in the illustrated embodiment includes user interface mood controller music constructor intake analyzer and instruments . In various embodiments music generator may include additional elements in place of and or in addition to those shown. In some embodiments music generator is configured to determine musical attributes based on external data . In these embodiments music generator is configured to generate music content based on the musical attributes. Exemplary musical attributes generated by music generator may include tempo e.g. specified in beats per minute key e.g. B Flat Major complexity energy variety volume spectrum envelope modulation periodicity rise and decay time noise etc. in various embodiments. Music generator may be configured to combine stored loops stored tracks and or generated loops to generate the music content.

As used herein the phrase music content refers both to music itself the audible representation of music as well as to information usable to play music. Thus a song recorded as a file on a storage medium such as without limitation a compact disc flash drive etc. is an example of music content the sounds produced by outputting this recorded file or other electronic representation e.g. through speakers is also an example of music content.

The term music includes its well understood meaning including sounds generated by musical instruments as well as vocal sounds. Thus music includes for example instrumental performances or recordings a cappella performances or recordings and performances or recordings that include both instruments and voice. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that music does not encompass all vocal recordings. Works that do not include musical attributes such as rhythm or rhyme for example speeches newscasts and audiobooks are not music.

One piece of music content can be distinguished from another piece of music content in any suitable fashion. For example a digital file corresponding to a first song may represent a first piece of music content while a digital file corresponding to a second song may represent a second piece of music content. The phrase music content can also be used to distinguish particular intervals within a given musical work such that different portions of the same song can be considered different pieces of musical content. Similarly different tracks e.g. piano track guitar track within a given musical work may also correspond to different pieces of musical content. In the context of a potentially endless stream of generated music the phrase music content can be used to refer to some portion of the stream e.g. a few measures or a few minutes .

The present disclosure is concerned with computer implemented generation of music content such as by a software program or by computer hardware. The generation of music content refers to the creation of a combination of musical elements. As used herein generating music content is distinct from playing back music content. Accordingly a computer system that reads a computer audio file from a storage medium and outputs corresponding audio is not generating music content within the meaning of the present disclosure but is instead playing back music content.

Music content generated by embodiments of the present disclosure may be new music content combinations of musical elements that have never been previously generated. A related but more expansive concept original music content is described further below. To facilitate the explanation of this term the concept of a controlling entity relative to an instance of music content generation is described. Unlike the phrase original music content the phrase new music content does not refer to the concept of a controlling entity. Accordingly new music content refers to music content that has never before been generated by any entity or computer system.

Conceptually the present disclosure refers to some entity as controlling a particular instance of computer generated music content. Such an entity owns any legal rights e.g. copyright that might correspond to the computer generated content to the extent that any such rights may actually exist . In one embodiment an individual that creates e.g. codes various software routines a computer implemented music generator or operates e.g. supplies inputs to a particular instance of computer implemented music generation will be the controlling entity. In other embodiments a computer implemented music generator may be created by a legal entity e.g. a corporation or other business organization such as in the form of a software product computer system or computing device. In some instances such a computer implemented music generator may be deployed to many clients. Depending on the terms of a license associated with the distribution of this music generator the controlling entity may be the creator the distributor or the clients in various instances. If there are no such explicit legal agreements the controlling entity for a computer implemented music generator is the entity facilitating e.g. supplying inputs to and thereby operating a particular instance of computer generation of music content.

Within the meaning of the present disclosure computer generation of original music content by a controlling entity refers to 1 a combination of musical elements that has never been generated before either by the controlling entity or anyone else and 2 a combination of musical elements that has been generated before but was generated in the first instance by the controlling entity. Content type 1 is referred to herein as novel music content and is similar to the definition of new music content except that the definition of novel music content refers to the concept of a controlling entity while the definition of new music content does not. Content type 2 on the other hand is referred to herein as proprietary music content. Note that the term proprietary in this context does not refer to any implied legal rights in the content although such rights may exist but is merely used to indicate that the music content was originally generated by the controlling entity. Accordingly a controlling entity re generating music content that was previously and originally generated by the controlling entity constitutes generation of original music content within the present disclosure. Non original music content with respect to a particular controlling entity is music content that is not original music content for that controlling entity.

Some pieces of music content may include musical components from one or more other pieces of music content. Creating music content in this manner is referred to as sampling music content and is common in certain musical works and particularly in certain musical genres. Such music content is referred to herein as music content with sampled components derivative music content or using other similar terms. In contrast music content that does not include sampled components is referred to herein as music content without sampled components non derivative music content or using other similar terms.

In applying these terms it is noted that if any particular music content is reduced to a sufficient level of granularity an argument could be made that this music content is derivative meaning in effect that all music content is derivative . The terms derivative and non derivative are not used in this sense in the present disclosure. With regard to the computer generation of music content such computer generation is said to be derivative and result in derivative music content if the computer generation selects portions of components from pre existing music content of an entity other than the controlling entity e.g. the computer program selects a particular portion of an audio file of a popular artist s work for inclusion in a piece of music content being generated . On the other hand computer generation of music content is said to be non derivative and result in non derivative music content if the computer generation does not utilize such components of such pre existing content. Note some pieces of original music content may be derivative music content while some pieces may be non derivative music content.

It is noted that the term derivative is intended to have a broader meaning within the present disclosure than the term derivative work that is used in U.S. copyright law. For example derivative music content may or may not be a derivative work under U.S. copyright law. The term derivative in the present disclosure is not intended to convey a negative connotation it is merely used to connote whether a particular piece of music content borrows portions of content from another work.

Further the phrases new music content novel music content and original music content are not intended to encompass music content that is only trivially different from a pre existing combination of musical elements. For example merely changing a few notes of a pre existing musical work does not result in new novel or original music content as those phrases are used in the present disclosure. Similarly merely changing a key or tempo or adjusting a relative strength of frequencies e.g. using an equalizer interface of a pre existing musical work does not produce new novel or original music content. Moreover the phrases new novel and original music content are not intended to cover those pieces of music content that are borderline cases between original and non original content instead these terms are intended to cover pieces of music content that are unquestionably and demonstrably original including music content that would be eligible for copyright protection to the controlling entity referred to herein as protectable music content . Further as used herein the term available music content refers to music content that does not violate copyrights of any entities other than the controlling entity. New and or original music content is often protectable and available. This may be advantageous in preventing copying of music content and or paying royalties for music content.

When generating derived music content pre existing tracks may be combined in various ways. For example referring to pre existing music content e.g. a portion of a song begins at the left dashed line ends at the right dashed line and includes multiple layered tracks loops . In the illustrated example track ends at a particular point in time at which track begins. In the illustrated example track begins in the middle of music content . Sampling music content may include taking slices of music content in the time dimension and inserting layering the slices into generated music content. Sampling music content may also include decomposing music content e.g. by extracting track and inserting layering it with generated music content. In various embodiments music content or portions thereof may also be modified in other ways before combining with other content including changing keys changing tempo modulation equalization etc.

Music content may also be classified using various parameters such as a sampling parameter a melody parameter and a non derivative parameter.

As used herein the term sampling parameter refers to an amount of sampling used in the time dimension in music content. For example for given music content the sampling parameter refers to what percentage of the content in the time dimension includes sampled music over the interval of the music content. Exemplary ranges of acceptable sampling parameters include 0 10 0 20 0 30 0 40 0 50 0 60 and 0 70 . In some situations various parameters may be measured over a minimum time interval of music content such as 30 seconds or a few minutes for example.

Further as used herein the term melody parameter refers to an amount of melody in the time dimension over a given interval of music content that is borrowed from other music content. For example for a given number of measures of music content all or a portion of those measures of the music content may include a melody borrowed from other music content. Exemplary ranges of acceptable melody parameters include 0 5 0 10 0 30 0 40 etc. Melody parameters may also be specified as a ratio for particular intervals of music content. For example a melody parameter may specify that at most 2 measures of melody in any given 8 measures of content is pre existing content. Other exemplary ratios include 1 3 or 4 measures of pre existing melody in 8 measures of music content etc.

Still further as used herein the term non derivative parameter refers to an amount of music content that is not derived from pre existing content. For example if half of the loops that are combined to generate music content are generated by software while the other half are stored pre existing loops the derivative parameter is 50 . The derivative parameter may be determined at the loop granularity the track granularity different time granularities etc. For example if 4 out of 10 combined tracks are pre existing tracks the non derivative parameter would be 40 . Similarly if a fourth of music content over a given interval included pre existing content which may or may not be layered with other content the non derivative parameter in time would be 40 . As discussed above a minimum time interval e.g. 30 seconds or a minute may be defined for measuring this parameter. Exemplary ranges of acceptable non derivative parameters include 10 100 30 100 and 70 100 . In some embodiments new music content is generated by combining tracks that are 100 non derivative. In other embodiments music content may be classified using other quantitative parameters in addition to and or in place of those discussed herein.

As used herein the phrase combined music content refers to generated music content that has at least one of the following properties 

Referring again to in one embodiment music generator is configured to execute on a user device such as a mobile phone or personal computer. In other embodiments all or a portion of music generator may be executed on a server at a different location from where music is actually played. For example music generator may be configured to stream music to a mobile application or a web application. In such embodiments processor s may be configured to couple to a network either using a physical coupling or wirelessly. In some embodiments music generator is configured to generate house music. There are many existing tracks in the house music genre and mechanisms for mixing house music tracks are well understood.

User interface in some embodiments may allow users artists customers DJ s etc. to interact with music generator e.g. using a graphical user interface GUI . User interface may be installed as an application on a user device or may be a webpage for example. In some embodiments user interface may include multiple different interfaces for different device types and may include both executable applications and web interfaces. For example user interface may include different interfaces for personal computers than for mobile devices. Further user interface may include different interfaces for different types of customers. Artists who upload tracks may use a different interface than users who stream music content. Similarly commercial users may use yet another interface to customize external data formats and types for example.

Mood controller in one embodiment is configured to generate musical attributes based on external data . In one exemplary embodiment a user may input a desired energy level and mood controller may be configured to generate tempo key and complexity attributes for music to match the energy level. Mood controller may be configured to dynamically adjust musical attributes based on external data received while music generator is generating music content in real time.

Music constructor in one embodiment is configured to generate music based on the musical attributes determined by mood controller . In one embodiment music constructor is configured to use stored tracks and or loops and or loops generated by instruments to generate original music content. Music constructor may be configured to adjust layering or mixing of tracks loops based on changing musical attributes from mood controller in real time. Music constructor may include various algorithms for making such transitions in a way that is pleasing to the listener without noticeable breaks in generation of music content using various techniques for dynamically changing tempo key etc. In various embodiments music constructor is configured to sample layer and or insert tracks loops to combine the tracks loops to generate music content.

Intake analyzer in one embodiment is configured to determine musical attributes of uploaded tracks. In one embodiment artists can upload tracks to be used by music generator . In some embodiments intake analyzer may perform spectral analysis which may analyze the timbre of input tracks e.g. using Fourier transforms. Intake analyzer may be configured to analyze various musical attributes such as spectrum envelope modulation rise and decay time noise etc. In one embodiment music generator is configured to monitor use of uploaded tracks and artists may be compensated based on the amount their tracks are used in generating new music. In some embodiments artists uploading tracks may be required to sign a licensing agreement e.g. similar to the public licensing agreements for software that allows re use of uploaded content for non commercial use. In some embodiments artists may specify musical attributes of uploaded tracks in place of or in addition to intake analyzer determining this information.

Instruments in one embodiment are configured to generate sound loops based on input musical attributes. Each instrument may be configured to generate a different type of sound loop e.g. for a different musical instruments or for voices. Generated loops may be stored in loop database in one embodiment. Sound loops generated by instruments may be advantageous in some embodiments because they may be royalty free. Generated sound loops may also be useful in situations in which music generator executes on a user device that is not coupled to a network and thus may be unable to download stored loops and tracks from a database. In one embodiment mood controller is configured to select instrument track loop types based on desired energy level.

In one embodiment an application programming interface API may allow artists to generate their own instrument modules that generate sound loops based on input musical attribute information. These modules may be uploaded to a server and downloadable by other users. Similarly in one embodiment users may generate their own algorithms for mood controller and these algorithms may be uploaded and shared with other users.

User database may store user information and preferences. In one embodiment user database includes ratings history for users and may store links to saved music content generated for particular users. User database may also store information for users artists who submit tracks loops which may enable those users to be compensated for use of their tracks in generating music content. User database may be configured to track popular loops tracks and or artists in order to improve the quality of generated music content by including more popular musical elements more often than less popular elements.

In some embodiments music generator is configured to save generated music content for sending to a user at a later time as opposed to streaming content as it is generated . In some embodiments this saved content may be stored in user database . In one embodiment saved songs are classified and searchable by musical attributes. Thus in one embodiment users may listen to a particular station of pre generated original music content for a particular mood with particular musical attributes. In other embodiments users may listen to stations that stream music content that is generated in real time for particular musical attributes.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a portion of music generator is shown. In the illustrated embodiment mood controller is configured to generate musical attributes complexity key tempo and energy in the illustrated embodiment based on received external data. In the illustrated embodiment music constructor is configured to generate music content based on the musical attributes by layering tracks and or loops from track database loop database and or instrument .

Mood controller in the illustrated embodiment is configured to receive multiple inputs including musical attributes words environment information and behavior information. In other embodiments mood controller may be configured to receive additional types of external data in addition to and or in place of the types shown.

In one embodiment mood controller is configured to receive musical attributes directly from users. For example a user interface may include dials or similar graphics that allow a user to directly adjust attributes such as tempo and key. In one embodiment user input is simplified and a user simply inputs a desired energy level for a given type of music or inputs some other more abstract musical attribute.

In one embodiment mood controller is configured to receive words associated with particular moods such as happy relaxed or exercise which may be used to determine corresponding musical attributes. Musical attributes may be classified into ranges that correspond to particular moods in this embodiment.

In one embodiment mood controller is configured to receive information about a listener environment. Examples of this information include lighting information and sound information. For example based on conversation volume in a room mood controller may be configured to adjust musical attributes to avoid drowning out conversation or to increase generated music volume at a concert with a boisterous crowd. In one embodiment sound information may be measured by microphones in user devices communicating with music generator . As another example mood controller may be configured to adjust musical attributes based on light intensity and or color in a room.

In one embodiment mood controller is configured to receive information about user behavior. Behavior information may include for example information about user locations in a shopping mall or the number of purchases at point of sale terminals. In one embodiment mood controller is configured to store this behavior information and adjust generated musical attributes based on the behavior information. For example particular musical attributes may result in better sales on Mondays but not on weekends and mood controller may be configured to store this information and adjust musical attributes accordingly. In one embodiment this information may be stored separately for each customer e.g. for each store in a shopping mall . In another embodiment this information may be aggregated for multiple customers e.g. across stores nationwide . In various embodiments feedback loops may be implemented for any input to mood controller . In these embodiments mood controller may be configured to generate musical attributes to encourage or discourage various user behavior or more generally to affect any of various input parameters.

As described above exemplary musical attributes may include tempo and key. Musical attributes may also include more abstract parameters such as energy complexity or variety. Complexity may refer to a number of loops or instruments that are included in a composition. Energy may be related to the other attributes or may be orthogonal to the other attributes. For example changing keys or tempos may affect energy. However for a given tempo and key energy may be changed by adjusting instrument types e.g. by adding high hats or white noise complexity volume etc. Variety may refer to an amount of change in generated music over time. Variety may be generated for a static set of other musical attributes e.g. by selecting different tracks for a given tempo and key or may be generated by changing musical attributes over time e.g. by changing tempos and keys more often when greater variety is desired .

In some embodiments music generator is configured to continuously generate music content e.g. without a set beginning and end. Thus music content may begin and end in response to user input for example and play continuously in between the beginning and ending. In order to provide variation mood controller may be configured to vary musical attributes. For example mood controller may be configured to change keys during generation of music content. In some embodiments mood controller is configured to use harmonic mixing which involves well known techniques for changing keys using the circle of fifths for example. In some embodiments music generator is configured to insert quiet intervals into generated music content in order to add variety and may change keys and or tempo after such quiet periods in order to simulate changing songs in the generated stream of music content.

Music constructor in the illustrated embodiment is configured to generate music content based on received musical attributes. In the illustrated embodiment music constructor may also be configured to generate color information and light information based on the received musical attributes. In various embodiments music constructor is configured to assemble received tracks loops in order to generate music content based on external data. Techniques for layering tracks loops and phrasing or shaping of loops are well known. Phrasing may be associated with the number of beats per loop and loops may be layered and repeated in a way that sounds appealing to listeners. Layering may be one technique for mixing or combining sound loops.

In various embodiments any of various appropriate algorithms may be implemented to select loops and or tracks that are compatible e.g. in the same key or having similar tempos . It is well understood that music in specific keys evokes certain emotions. For example a Beethoven piano concerto in B flat has a different qualitative feel than the same piece played in C minor. Likewise it is well known in music theory that specific keys can work together and create pleasing music whereas other keys do not work well together and result in noise when they are combined. Music generator in some embodiments is configured to generate original music to match various different moods or feelings by determining sets of musical attributes for each mood or feeling.

In order to vary generated music over time music constructor may be configured to switch out tracks loops in a random or pseudo random manner whether or not musical attributes change. This randomness may also be user configurable. This randomness may be related to variety or may be orthogonal to variety for example variety can be intentionally increased in a non random manner but can also be increased by increasing randomness . In one embodiment music constructor is configured to change the mix of tracks loops in a relatively continuous fashion such that the generated music content appears to change throughout a listening period.

In the illustrated embodiment music constructor is configured to receive tracks from track database and loops from loop database and instrument . In one embodiment music generator is configured to store and process tracks and loops together rather than treating them differently.

Track database in some embodiments is configured to store tracks uploaded from users and or tracks generated by music constructor . In the illustrated embodiment track decomposer is configured to break down tracks into loops e.g. of single instruments to be stored in loop database . In other embodiments music generator may not be configured to decompose tracks into loops. In the illustrated embodiment track database and loop database are configured to store metadata for each track loop that indicates tempo key length and type. Length information may include the length of a track loop and or phrase boundary information. Type may refer to a category of instrument e.g. drums strings voice acoustic etc. Types may not be mutually exclusive a guitar for example may be both a string type and an acoustic type. In other embodiments various elements of music generator may be configured to store other metadata in addition to and or in place of the particular metadata types described herein.

Loop database in one embodiment is configured to store loops generated by one or more instruments and or loops uploaded by users or decomposed from tracks uploaded by users.

Instrument in one embodiment may be configured to generate sounds for a particular instrument based on tempo key and length inputs. In some embodiments music generator includes multiple instruments for generating sound loops to inject new loops into generated music and or when stored loops tracks are not available. In another embodiment a single instrument includes one or more type inputs and is configured to generate sound loops for various types of instruments. In some embodiments instrument may be configured to generate sound color and or light information corresponding to generated sound loops.

In the illustrated embodiment track database loop database and instrument are configured to provide tracks loops to music constructor based on musical attributes determined by mood controller . In one embodiment music constructor is configured to modify tracks loops that do not match desired musical attributes. For example music constructor and or some other element of music generator may be configured to adjust tempo key etc. of received tracks loops in order to obtain a plurality of tracks loops with desired musical attributes.

In various embodiments the functionality described herein for particular elements may be performed by any of various appropriate elements in a system. The illustrated embodiment illustrates one possible combination of elements but other combinations are contemplated.

In one exemplary environment music generator is configured generate music content for a restaurant. In this environment music generator may receive environment information such as lighting intensity and or color ambient noise number of patrons etc. Music generator may receive this information from individual user devices at the restaurant and or devices owned by the restaurant. For example the user devices and or restaurant devices may visit a particular website or indicate the restaurant as a current location on a software application. Further users in the restaurant may indicate their desired energy level or desired attributes like quiet or exciting. Still further the restaurant may store user information such as number of sales etc. which may be associated with musical attributes and used to determine musical attributes for future music content. Generally in some embodiments music generator may be configured to use various feedback loops to affect inputs such as ambient noise or number of patrons and may be configured to attempt increase decrease and or stabilize such inputs. Based on all or a portion of such information music generator may be configured to combine tracks to generate music content based on determined musical attributes. For example music generator may be configured to generate less complex music with a lower volume when it determines that there is significant ambient noise in the restaurant in order to avoid drowning out conversation. Similarly music generator may be configured to re use musical attributes that result in greater sales volume in the restaurant.

In some embodiments music generator may also be configured to generate ambient art to accompany music content. Ambient art may be generated based on artistic attributes such as complexity color palette or tone e.g. darkness or lightness . Music generator may be configured to determine artistic attributes using similar techniques as those described herein for determining musical attributes. Thus music generator may generate or classify and store artistic elements and layer elements with similar attributes based on external data to generate ambient art.

In another exemplary environment music generator may be used in a club environment as a virtual DJ. For example users may indicate their desired energy level and or specific musical attributes. Music generator may be configured to aggregate and or average this information in order to determine musical attributes to generate music content. In some embodiments music generator may be configured to generate light control information to adjust lighting in the club. Further music generator may be configured to generate sound information to be played on user devices in the club and or light control information to adjust lights on user devices. For example based on location of user devices music generator may be configured to generate waves of sound and or light that ripple among devices of a group of listeners at the club along with the beat of the generated music content. Similarly on some embodiments music generator may be configured to generate vibration control information for user devices. For example an DJ might instruct patrons to perform a particular action or dance move when their phone vibrates and send vibration information to user devices based on location in order to choreograph patron participation with the music. Location of user devices may be determined in various embodiments by global navigation systems such as GPS radio triangulation techniques e.g. using cellular signals WIFI or BLUETOOTH user input e.g. indicating a particular part of the club etc. Music generator may be configured to determine which users should receive control data e.g. which users are present at the club based on users that are currently using a mobile application or website associated with music generator . For example users may be using a mobile application to input their energy preference using user interface or to check in to the club using a separate application such as FOURSQUARE or FACEBOOK. In one embodiment users may upload sound loops while listening to generated music content and the sound loops may be adjusted and used in the music content. For example a user may sing or rap Bob Jones is here let s get the party started into his mobile device and this loop may be sampled and combined in the generated music content. In this embodiment music generator may send light information to devices of users who have uploaded sound loops that are currently being used in order to recognize those users in the club environment. For example users who have uploaded currently used sound loops may receive control information for a flashing strobe light on their mobile application.

In one embodiment music generator is not configured to generate original music content but is configured to generate light vibration sound control information and handle switching between stored songs e.g. using harmonic mixing. In this embodiment music generator may be configured to aid or take the place of a DJ.

In some embodiments a commercial customer e.g. a restaurant or club owner may register for a commercial account and pay a monthly fee for channels that target their desired demographic. In some embodiments a user or customer may customize external data provided to music generator . For example music generator may include an API that allows other software applications to generate musical attributes or other external data and provide this data to mood controller . This may allow commercial customers to customize their own algorithms for determining musical attributes and provide the musical attributes directly to music constructor for example.

In some embodiments music generator may interface with popular DJ software such as TRAKTOR SERATO REKORDBOX ABELTON LIVE etc. A DJ may use music generator to generate or select tracks and loops associated with particular desired attributes. Further DJ s may upload their tracks to be used for further mixing by music generator . DJ s may also use music generator to control light sound and or vibration on user devices in a crowd. Music generator may also be configured to use tracks from repositories such as BEATPORT for example.

Yet another exemplary environment is a user s residence. Music generator may be configured to determine different music attributes based on lighting activity level time of day day of the week etc. and may be configured to learn preferences of a user in order to generate music content that is pleasing to the user throughout the day. This may allow a user to listen to inexpensive original music without interruption by advertisements for example. In some embodiments music generator is configured to store generated music content to later be replayed by a user.

determining by a computer system one or more musical attributes based on external data and at least one of 

generating by the computer system combined music content based on the one or more musical attributes 

generating by the computer system protectable music content based on the one or more musical attributes and

generating by the computer system available music content based on the one or more musical attributes.

determining by a computer system one or more musical attributes based on external data and at least one of 

generating by the computer system music content with a particular melody parameter based on the one or more musical attributes 

generating by the computer system music content with a particular sampling parameter based on the one or more musical attributes and

generating by the computer system music content with a particular non derivative parameter based on the one or more musical attributes

combining by the computing system a plurality of tracks to generate music content wherein each of the plurality of tracks is 

3. The method of claim wherein the external data includes at least one of a light intensity and a noise level.

4. The method of claim wherein the external data includes user behavior information and wherein the determining the one or more musical attributes includes changing one or more musical attributes in response to past user behavior.

5. The method of claim wherein the user behavior information includes a number of items purchased at one or more sale terminals over a given time period.

sending the light control information to a plurality of user devices based on locations of the plurality of user devices.

generating sound information based on the musical attributes wherein the sound information is usable to play sounds on one or more user devices at the same time the music content is played using the one or more audio devices.

determining a payment amount for the artist based on an amount of use of the track over a given time period.

1. A non transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable by a computing device to perform operations comprising 

combining a plurality of tracks to generate music content wherein each of the plurality of tracks is 

2. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein the combining includes layering one or more of the tracks.

3. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein the combining includes sampling one or more of the tracks.

4. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein each of the plurality of tracks includes sounds for only one instrument.

5. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein the operations further comprise 

combining one or more additional sound loops with one or more of the plurality of sound loops to generate further music content wherein the combining is performed while playing the music track and is based on second external data received while playing the music track. 6. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein the musical attributes include two or more attributes selected from the group consisting of tempo key energy and complexity. 7. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein the external data includes input from one or more users. 8. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein the input includes a desired energy level. 9. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein the input includes a user rating of generated music content. 10. The non transitory computer readable storage medium of claim wherein the external data includes input from multiple users listening to the music content.

Still other additional contemplated embodiments include a hardware system configured to perform the various functionality described above with reference to embodiments of a method and embodiments of a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrating one exemplary embodiment of a method for generating music content is shown. The method shown in may be used in conjunction with any of the computer systems devices elements or components disclosed herein among other devices. In various embodiments some of the method elements shown may be performed concurrently in a different order than shown or may be omitted. Additional method elements may also be performed as desired. Flow begins at block .

At block one or more musical attributes are determined based on external data. Examples of external data include user input of various types environmental information such as lighting or sound information behavior information such as location information or purchase information feedback information such as user rating information etc. Rating information may be specified in various forms including numerical ratings like dislike options star ratings etc. Determining musical attributes may include using various algorithms to generate attributes based on external data. Some of the algorithms may include inputs for past user preferences or behavior in order to adjust the algorithms to better match music to user moods. Such algorithms may include various rules and heuristics for controlling the generated music content. Flow proceeds to block .

At block a plurality of tracks are combined to generate music content based on the musical attributes. In this embodiment the tracks are either selected e.g. from a database or generated e.g. by instrument based on the musical attributes. In some embodiments selecting tracks may include adjusting tracks loops that are close to having the musical attributes such that they match the musical attributes. For example a track with a tempo of 112 beats per minute may be slightly stretched to generate a track with a desired tempo of 110 beats per minute. In some embodiments music generator is configured to generate light and or sound control information in addition to the music content. Flow ends at block .

Although specific embodiments have been described above these embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure even where only a single embodiment is described with respect to a particular feature. Examples of features provided in the disclosure are intended to be illustrative rather than restrictive unless stated otherwise. The above description is intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The scope of the present disclosure includes any feature or combination of features disclosed herein either explicitly or implicitly or any generalization thereof whether or not it mitigates any or all of the problems addressed herein. Accordingly new claims may be formulated during prosecution of this application or an application claiming priority thereto to any such combination of features. In particular with reference to the appended claims features from dependent claims may be combined with those of the independent claims and features from respective independent claims may be combined in any appropriate manner and not merely in the specific combinations enumerated in the appended claims.

