---

title: Method for mobile security via multi-factor context authentication
abstract: The present invention is a system and a method for improving the authentication security across a network from a mobile electronic computing device in the context of one or more users, devices, sites/sessions, servers, locations, proximity, motion and/or behavioral attributes within a defined session lifecycle. The authentication method and system utilizes a strong, elegant, private, definitive and real-time, triangulated verification, which requires mutual authentication between the parties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08935769&OS=08935769&RS=08935769
owner: LiveEnsure, Inc.
number: 08935769
owner_city: Westminster
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application takes priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 707 190 filed on Sep. 28 2012 titled Mobile Security Context Authentication by inventor Christian J. Hessler the contents of which are expressly incorporated herein by this reference.

The present invention generally relates to a method and system for providing network security and authentication. In particular the invention relates to multi factor context authentication security systems and methods using a mobile electronic computing device across a network using contextual factors within a defined session.

For decades various computer users have generally used password based or PIN based authentication schemes. These methods are generally performed through a traditional user access from a fixed or mobile electronic computing device. The user generally uses a mobile electronic computing device such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer mobile computer or phone or smart phone to access a particular resource internal or external such as a website application server or network. In accessing the particular resource using traditional means the user typically inputs a username and password to authenticate himself or herself and may use some additional verification method such as an out of band message shared secret physical token certificate or near field communication protocol.

Traditional user access also has also been used in other areas such as the area of payment transactions. When a user desires perform a payment transaction the user is often faced with a verification scheme where the user utilizes some level of entitlement or authorization of the payment. Although the payment arena is one area that has been quite popular for areas of entitlement or authorization the authentication scheme is not limited to payments as it may be used in other areas such as access towards a particular asset. In any event the authorization process typically requires the use of any of the following a computing device session website application server location and or resource.

Unfortunately most traditional authentication methods have various flaws and complications. For example many conventional authentication methods are either too costly or too cumbersome to appropriately scale and be adopted ubiquitously by the marketplace. Additionally current authentication methods and systems are not up to the security challenge modern hackers pose and the do not have the usability or privacy features that users require. Furthermore contemporary multi factor or two factor solutions fail to recognize and exploit the fact that user security is a fabric not a thread i.e. composed of multiple variables rather than a single factor or variable. This ignorance of contextual realities among devices sites users applications and networks in businesses and social environments leaves most solutions woefully inadequate to meet the authentication security challenges at hand.

Although additional methods may attempt to address such issues by collapsing the acts of identification and authentication into a single process these methods inherit the same liabilities as any other single point of failure or federated systems regardless of the sophistication or novelty of the flow. The challenge has always been to balance advanced security with enhanced usability.

Innovatively the authentication method that would meet the needs of current verification processes and demands would be to use multiple layers of contextual credentials or factors. Examples of such factors would include information regarding a server or service network user on a fixed or mobile device location physical and digital proximity relationship or association synthesized holistic vs. sequential or isolated factors and behaviors or attributes of any or all of the above. Preferably the ideal authentication process would be used in a high value low volume session or transaction environment such as banking healthcare data military or legal context. The authentication process could also be used in a low value high volume space such as e commerce social networking or gaming. Furthermore the structure of the ideal and innovative authentication process should be adaptable for client to server server to server peer to peer or hybrid architecture. The expectation of and requirement for privacy usability accuracy simplicity and strength is preferably equivalent in all scenarios.

The challenge however is to create a simple mutual contextual verification without depending upon or exposing the process to the traditional security solution shortcomings. Such shortcomings include but are not limited to issues relating to cost persistence lack of privacy interception replay usability reliance upon the user skill encryption obfuscation information seeding presentation or combined submission and or transmission of reused credentials across known or predictable channels sequential and discrete inspection and evaluation of isolated credentials and unilateral authoritative decision making about the context result status. Because conventional means of authentication include the pairing of discrete and private elements of a user device or session with their meanings key value pairs these methods inappropriately collapses the independent notions of identification self reported and authentication externally verified . As a result private user identity information is potentially exposed for capture replay prediction theft or misuse in service of its verification.

A second challenge to create an ideal and innovative authentication method is to utilize the mobile device in a security context for what is designed for and capable of being an interactive extension to and participant within the context of the user site app and session authentication. Previous incarnations of bring your own device or mobile device authentication methods treated the mobile computing device as simply a capture and forward apparatus. The device is generally used to capture decode and forward on credentials keys or tokens as opposed to participating in a manner in which it is capable. Specifically previous inventions merely relegated the mobile device to be a camera and a hard drive storing obfuscated keys or cookies and forwarding them along to the back end authoritative server for a standard password lookup and match approach. However using a mobile device as part of the authentication scheme will strengthen the verification process by adding augmented reality authentication that is using the mobile device to interact with the fabric of the user environment location proximity behavior and context of the session in a manner that securely privately and easily revolutionizes the traditional authentication process.

A third opportunity is to involve the user in the authentication process in a unique way that has never been accomplished with conventional authentication methods. Previous security solutions were seen as one or more layers or cumbersome steps in the end user security flow. Users had to for example respond to certain password challenges or maintain custody of bespoke hardware or software credentials such as tokens keys certificates or select recognizable visual audible mathematical or textual components from a number of interfaces and prompts. The user has simply never been in involved in the authentication credentials or process but rather has been merely responsible for responding to those components or steps at the request of the host website or application. Because a website generally holds all keys in security accessibility user side hacking e.g. key loggers man in the middle man in the browser phishing pharming whaling social engineering and other such techniques has risen and has resulted with a necessary shift away from host server side view of authentication security to a more interactive user focused approach. The user should have interactive control of the depth manner method makeup and personalization of their authentication security that is stronger contextual and more effective than previous techniques. Additionally the ideal authentication method should also be simpler more elegant and highly usable.

These challenges in sum have represented a barrier to those looking for solutions and have never been overcome by conventional methods. Given that there is no and that there has never been a single successful ubiquitous approach to interactive user authentication in the field speaks volumes to the shortcomings of conventional methods and implementations. As a result there has been no de facto technique adopted in the field of end user multi factor authentication that simultaneously solves the security usability and interactivity challenges stated herein.

The goal or solution would be to create an authentication process system or method that would utilize context verification and authentication of all parties and factors while remaining immune to various authentication problems e.g. threats hacks interception replay compromise prediction collusion false results or any of the process method implementation liabilities . Furthermore the authentication process would embrace usability achieve potential ubiquity with low tech or no tech integration and elevate the mobile device to an interactive member of the authentication algorithm. This would preferably give the user additional and personal control over their security via performed location behavior custom factors which is beyond the native security credential depth or requirements. Unlike prior art in this space which attempted to identify a user by their custom behavior or location such as GPS tracking biometric measurement keystroke measurement facial or voice recognition the novel solution would achieve context authentication of these composite factors by nature of their present and influence on the decision without inappropriately revealing or tracking the user s immutable personal identity through their literal capture inspection application and or or interrogation.

There are various references that disclose authentication methods that utilize a device and network. For example U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0219427 filed by Hito et al. hereinafter Hito and U.K. Patent Application Publication No. W2012 069845 filed by Harris hereinafter Harris disclose various authentication and encoding methods. Specifically the Hito reference discloses techniques for simplifying an authentication process from the viewpoint of the user while employing improved security to other user who are employing weak or no security techniques. Rather than using the conventional username and password the authentication method disclosed in Hito utilizes an encoded signal which is communicated from a smart phone to an authentication server. The encoded signal informs the server whether the user has been successfully authenticated or not. While Hito discloses verification and authentication techniques that go beyond the traditional username password scheme Hito fails to utilize contextual factors in a defined user session e.g. behavioral factors location factors custom factors that would aid in strengthen the verification process.

Regarding U.K. Patent Application Publication No. W2012 069845 filed by Harris the Harris reference discloses an authentication method that utilizes a portable device a first server and a second server. The portable device obtains encoded information and decodes the information. After decoding the information the portable device transmits a message to the first server wherein the first server includes decoded information and a first identifier which identifies the device or user. The first server receives the message and establishes the identity of the user or device. As a result the first server performs an action based upon the decoded information. The Harris reference also may use other various authentication factors such as possession of the device and knowledge of a password. However like the Hito reference Harris fails to utilize contextual factors based upon a defined user session that would strengthen the verification process.

Both instances of the references cited above rely upon the common approach of seeding the credentials within the session messages transmitting them as key value pairs in a unidirectional manner to be verified by a single authoritative source that establishes that authenticity by server storage retrieval and matching of the literal factors. In addition the server authority must capture store and reference literal shared and reused knowledge about the user site device and session identifiers during comparison which can be used out of context to reconstruct or replay an actual valid authentication session. The custody and secrecy of these static identifiers during capture storage or transmission is the key to the efficacy of prior art regardless of the novelty of presentation or transmission. It is this inability to innovate beyond this convention that supports the majority of breaches hacks and failures that plague current authentication methods including these in practice at present. Without achieving a dynamic context aware treatment of non identifying authentication factors mutually asserted in a triangulated versus unidirectional framework there can be no innovation beyond convention nor a viable inventive solution to the failures of prior art.

In addition to the two references listed above many relevant references exist within the field of the present invention. However these references also tend to fall into a definable set of inadequate approaches dating back to antiquated security notions from the early to mid 20th century. The advent of mobile technology has unleashed a series of new art and references that utilize the mobile sensing processing and transmission capabilities of the mobile computing devices. Unfortunately these references embody the multi purpose capabilities within stale authentication paradigms models of shared secret security by obscurity and flat non context aware unidirectional processing regardless of their out of band OOB characteristics or flow.

These relevant references have relied upon four primary modes of authentication above username password or single sign on SSO 1 seed and read store credential on device and reference upon subsequent authentication 2 scratch and match script based dynamic browser device recognition cookies 3 ring and ping out of band one time passwords or tokens shared secrets PINs and 4 decode and forward QR code based model to capture code match with seeded credential and forward to back end server for lookup and match 

Specifically the shortcomings of the references listed above fall under these areas 1 cumbersome usability for the end user 2 user enrollment process that exposes weakest initial trust link 3 lack of credential integrity through multi perspective assertions 4 lack of awareness of credential user or device location proximity history or movement 5 decreased user privacy through repeat paired transmission of static identifiers 6 lack of credential flexibility or diversity 7 failure to achieve ubiquity across devices session types 8 improper flow of credentials from secure channel to insecure 9 unilateral assertion authority single lookup match process 10 lack of credential context awareness time location behavior 11 lack of user control over credential depth composition and process 12 over identification of the user or device during authentication 13 unnecessary transmission of user or device identifying data key value pairs 14 heavyweight components such as PM public private key encryption digital certificates and permanent keys that require distribution obfuscation and revocation management on the mobile device 15 single directional flow of key value credentials towards an single authoritative target 16 single perspective or measurement of the context credentials and 17 non interactive relegation of the smart device to a simple decode and forward utility.

Various embodiments disclosed previously have failed to adequately resolve the present security needs as evidenced by the ongoing security attacks successfully conducted by hackers and criminals. In addition the solutions proposed by current security solutions fail to solve the following problems namely a authentication is traditionally shared secret static and subject to interception replay or prediction based on persistent information only obfuscated by encryption or session flavoring b authentication security is expensive cumbersome difficult for users to understand or use c authentication relies on obfuscation encryption user skill custody or secrecy to be effective d credentials are usually fixed sequential and single mass in depth intelligence and context e security information flows backwards over primary predictive or known channels such as the browser together as key value pairs towards the unilateral authority in the process f the authentication decision relies upon a unilateral observation interrogation lookup match or single authoritative assertion of credentials usually in a client server patriarchal relationship between the identifier and the one being identified. Mutual authentication is an afterthought g secret security information is often delivered over secure out of band OOB channels only to have the user or device re insert that yet unverified secret back over the primary unsecured channel e.g. browser h user assumes all risk responsibility but has no control over enhancing modifying or improving their security over and above what the issuing authoritative source requires or allows i security requires re identification or the user or device along with authentication mixing credentials in the channel j authentication security is risky when engaged with a mobile device whose integrity is unknown k to date there has been no ubiquitous invention to layer defense in depth authentication on top of single sign on top of username password single sign on SSO or identity management approach l security which relies on location is only measuring the digital interpretation of that locale failing to triangulate the physical line of sight line of sound line of sensation with digital m true defense in depth a layer of proper authentication of a different species than the initiating self reported identification is often ignored in lieu of simply additional passwords or secrets or the assumption that identity by reference i.e. SSO is adequate for the category of authentication and n template based approaches have simply been static containers for traditional literal factor gathering and unidirectional transmission back to a single authoritative data store for isolated non contextual comparison.

Specifically solutions proposed in the references list above using encoded Quick Response QR images and mobile device scanning to identify or authenticate a user or device such as the Hito reference and the like are insufficient due to the following limitations and inferior methods a reliance upon heavily encoded encrypted or obfuscated content within the image or QR code itself such as webserver user device identity or session information and the integrity and secrecy of that object and its transmission being essential for its effectiveness to authenticate b reliance upon expensive static seeded embedded credentials on the mobile device such as a digital certificate or public private key pair that must be managed to provide the user device identifiers as opposed to performing a real time dynamic purpose built interactive assertion of those identities and contexts c reliance on a separate set of those credentials above b being deployed seeded managed and associated for each of a user s multiple mobile devices d unidirectional flow of object presentation to scan to transmit towards the authoritative service on the back end assumes either complete encrypted integrity of the process or complete decomposition isolation and inspection of the credentials by the authority against a stored database of literal data e the former approach in d eliminates the mobile computing device role or value in the process as imply a catch and forward mechanism without context awareness or mutual decision making f the latter approach in d burdens the authority for making the unilateral authentication decision in isolation with literal credentials opening path for reverse engineering replay or prediction g the store and forward approach denies the process interaction and richer smarter awareness of multiple factors in depth within the fabric of the session context h the reliance on the host server presentation layer to interact with the encoded content provide opportunity for inspection hack replay capture modification compromise i the reliance on encryption requires equal and opposite decryption and or re encryption capabilities of the mobile computing device thus spreading the logic of the process remotely and exposure to hack j the risk of collapsing and co mingling of identity and authentication data as the process sends identifiers along the same wire through the code mobile and messaging to the authoritative server provides numerous opportunities for attack questionable integrity and lack of privacy k in service of excessive usability in collapsing the login scan self reported with the authentication test static stored phone credential the limitation of the overall process for the sole purpose of granting or denying a user access to a resource without relation to additional identity or authentication methods i.e. no longer a defense in depth layer results in the prior art being a single point of failure l lack of proper triangulation interrogation measurement and interdependent decision making with respect to the source integrity and status of the authentication context m failure to treat authentication as a context simply a set of credentials to be forwarded n failure to triangulate physical and digital assumptions on location proximity and behavior from multiple sources and perspectives and o failure to actively involve and engage the user device session context location proximity behavior and triangulation context in the authentication process.

Thus based on the foregoing what is needed is an authentication method and system that overcomes the deficiencies in the systems currently available. The present invention solves these deficiencies and generally represents a new and useful innovation in the space of contextual factor authentication across authentication networks.

To minimize the limitations in the prior art and to minimize other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification the present invention discloses a new and useful mobile security context authentication system and method.

One embodiment of the present invention is a computer based method for authenticating a user across a network the steps comprising providing a host a server a presentation and a device wherein the device includes one or more applications wherein the server includes a profile algorithm requesting an access to the host by a main user at the presentation over a user channel requesting the server to perform a context verification decision by the host over a host channel creating two or more template objects by the profile algorithm of the server wherein the two or more template objects are a first template and a second template sending an object to the host over the host channel by the server presenting the object to the device at the presentation and over the user channel by the host processing the first template by the server wherein the processing step of the first template is based upon one or more contextual factors populating the first template by the server creating and storing a first signature in memory by the server wherein the creating step of the first signature is based upon the processing step of the first template consuming the object by the main user on the device through the one or more applications requesting the second template of the server over a preferably encrypted smart channel by the one or more applications sending the second template to the one or more applications on the device over the smart channel by the server processing the second template by the one or more applications populating the second template by the one or more applications creating and storing a second signature in memory by the one or more applications wherein the creating step of the second signature is based upon the second template and performing the context verification decision when comparing the first signature and the second signature over the smart channel. The computer based method may further comprise the step of providing one or more additional external factors to the device by the host over the out of band channel. The computer based method may further comprise the step of deleting the one or more contextual factors by the server. The processing step of the second template may be performed based upon one or more contextual factors. The creating and storing step of the first signature may be based upon the consuming step of the object. The creating and storing step of the first signature may be based upon the processing step of the second template. The computer based method may further comprise the steps of inputting one or more out of band data into the one or more applications wherein the one or more out of band data is transmitted over the out of band channel. The comparing step of the first signature and the second signature may be performed by the server. The comparing step of the first signature and the second signature may be performed by the one or more applications. The computer based method may further comprise the steps of authenticating the device when the first signature is essentially identical to the second signature.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a computer based method for authenticating a user across a network the steps comprising providing a host a server a presentation and a device wherein the device includes one or more applications wherein the server includes a profile algorithm requesting an access to the host by a main user at the presentation over a user channel requesting the server to perform a context verification decision by the host over a host channel creating a first template and a second template by the profile algorithm of the server sending an object to the host over the host channel by the server presenting the object to the device at the presentation and over the user channel by the host processing the first template by the server wherein the processing step of the first template is based upon a first set of one or more contextual factors populating the first template by the server creating and storing a first signature in memory by the server wherein the creating step of the first signature is based upon the processing step of the first template consuming the object by the main user on the device through the one or more applications requesting the second template of the server over a preferably encrypted smart channel by the one or more applications sending the second template to the one or more applications on the device over the smart channel by the server processing the second template by the one or more applications populating the second template by the one or more applications creating and storing a second signature in memory by the one or more applications wherein the creating step of the second signature is based upon the second template performing the context verification decision when comparing the first signature and the second signature over the smart channel and authenticating the device when the first signature is essentially identical to the second signature. The computer based method may further comprise the steps of providing one or more additional external factors to the device by the host over the out of band channel. The computer based method may further comprise the steps of deleting the one or more contextual factors by the server. The processing step of the second template may be performed based upon a second set of one or more contextual factors. The creating and storing step of the first signature may be based upon the consuming step of the object. The creating and storing step of the first signature may be based upon the processing step of the second template. The computer based method may further comprise the steps of inputting one or more out of band data into the one or more applications wherein the one or more out of band data is transmitted over the out of band channel. The comparing step of the first signature and the second signature may be performed by the server. The comparing step of the first signature and the second signature may be performed by the one or more applications.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a computer based method for authenticating a user across a network the steps comprising providing a host a server a presentation and a device wherein the device includes one or more applications wherein the server includes a profile algorithm requesting an access to the host by a main user at the presentation over a user channel requesting the server to perform a context verification decision by the host over a host channel creating a first template and a second template by the profile algorithm of the server sending an object to the host over the host channel by the server presenting the object to the device at the presentation and over the user channel by the host processing the first template by the server wherein the processing step of the first template is based upon one or more contextual factors populating the first template by the server creating and storing a first signature in memory by the server wherein the creating step of the first signature is based upon the processing step of the first template wherein the creating and storing step of the first signature is based upon the consuming step of the object consuming the object by the main user on the device through the one or more applications requesting the second template of the server over a smart channel by the one or more applications sending the second template to the one or more applications on the device over the smart channel by the server processing the second template by the one or more applications wherein the processing step of the second template is based upon of one or more contextual factors populating the second template by the one or more applications creating and storing a second signature in memory by the one or more applications deleting the one or more contextual factors by the server wherein the creating step of the second signature is based upon the second template performing the context verification decision when comparing the first signature and the second signature over the smart channel by the server and the one or more applications and authenticating the device when the first signature is essentially identical to the second signature.

Another embodiment of the invention is illustrated where a user wishes to log into a website or application. Generally the user wishes to access a host or website over a user channel from his or her computer or other type of electronic data processing unit device over a browser and logs in using a traditional username password combination thereof and or single sign on identification step. The website then preferably contacts the server across a host channel such as a private communication channel with a request to authenticate. In response the server preferably returns an object such as a QR code textual code or hyperlink to present the user. The server also preferably creates two or more templates in its memory a first template for its own processing and a second template for the consumption by the device or electronic data processing unit of the user. Additionally the website generally presents an object or link object back to the user over a presentation such as a browser channel. While using an application on his or her device the user selects the object by scanning sensing entering inputting or responding to the object or link object. As a result the application preferably follows the object to retrieve the second template directly privately and independently from the server over a smart channel which is preferably a new encrypted discrete third channel separate from the user channel and host channel. The server then preferably populates the first template with contextual factors such as elements of the session context e.g. host server link code object presentation location user device location any supplied credentials or cloud stored algorithms about the user behavior attributes or history . Using such contextual factors from the perspective of the server the server preferably algorithmically populates the first template to construct a first signature i.e. a one time context signature in memory. Simultaneously or approximately the same time the application on the device of the user preferably randomly populates similar contextual factors from the perspective of the device using elements of the website server device itself user and session. This step preferably results with the device of the user to independently populate the second template to algorithmically construct a second signature. The second signature may potentially correlate or conflict with the first signature of the server. Furthermore the user may perform certain behavioral actions e.g. facing north orienting the mobile in portrait mode or executing a gesture or exist within certain location or proximity attributes such as nearness to the server display screen or another device or fixed location point which are also preferably interrogated in real time and further strengthen the second signature of the user. Any data from expected performance location proximity or other contextual factors from a previous user or device may create complementary modification of the algorithm on the server. Regardless of number composition and depth of inputs i.e. a multi mass signature the templates and signatures are preferably unique and distinct from each other and any other previous or future objects. Preferably the first and second signatures are not reused or replayed but rather modified by new inputs attributes and contextual factors. Upon completion creating the first and second signatures the server and device preferably compare their respective signatures over the smart channel bypassing the user channel e.g. browser and host channel. If the first signature and second signature match the entire context is preferably mutually authenticated. On the other hand if the first signature and second signature fail to match the mutual context is preferably not authenticated. Preferably no information or key value pairs are captured or transmitted but rather algorithmically applied once at the server end and user end. The server preferably informs the user device and the host the authentication status and the parties may proceed appropriately based upon the results of the authentication. All session components are preferably destroyed in memory and no information is preferably stored written read retrieved or seeded to or from the device during any part of the authentication process.

The present invention provides a new method and system for providing network security as the authentication requires separation triangulation contextual interrogation and equitable and mutual decision making in a space traditionally constrained by obfuscation shared secrecy and authoritative administration and assertion of credentials and verification. By facing a new arena of the World Wide Web cloud computing mobile computing and social interaction the present invention has addressed the evolution from maintaining a custody of authentication credentials which parties or peers are seen as requiring assessing or establishing trust to contextual based authentication where the context of authentication provide greater security and authentication. The present invention goes beyond the traditional remote or client server access.

The present invention preferably discards the conventional shared secret or capture and forward authentication methods in order to create a new more intelligent and future proofed mechanism for network security that embraces the realities of connections credentials authorities behaviors networks mobility peers and augmented reality contexts in the social mobile digital age.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a mobile security context authentication system and method that preferably achieves a strong elegant private definitive and real time verification and authentication in the context of a user device site session server location and behavioral attributes within a defined session and across a network from a mobile electronic computing device. The invention preferably achieves this goal and presents true authentication innovation by employing the following three new components 1 synthesized real time non identifying multi factor mutual context credential verification from multiple perspectives beyond a primary session channel 2 mobile line of sight sound sense triangulation of digital and physical location and proximity and 3 user driven additive authentication security enhancement with verification and control via personalization and or gamification factors such as location proximity behavior or customization through in application purchase or enablement configuration and performance.

It is another object of the present invention to provide mobile security context authentication system and method that utilizes synthesized multi mass purpose built authentication signatures of multiple context factors as opposed to inspecting them individually and transmitting as key value pairs.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile security context authentication system and method that utilizes an algorithmic template based contextual fabric verification and authentication.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile security context authentication system and method that utilizes a non unilaterally authoritative matching process and decision across all members channels equally rather than a single patriarchal source of authority or secret.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile security context authentication system and method that does not rely upon cookies certificates seeded or persistent information public private keys shared secrets passwords user knowledge or biometric factors at the host invention server or user device layers.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile security context authentication system and method that utilizes triangulated separated bi directional data communication channel flows among parties thus eliminating a single point of failure interception or route.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile security context authentication system and method that utilizes multi perspective inspection and interrogation of contextual factors.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile security context authentication system and method that does not rely on encoded encrypted or embedded secrets identifying information within the link or launch object code image sound signal or vibration e.g. QR code .

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile security context authentication system and method that utilizes automatic real time algorithmic processing on a server and mobile device without storing seeding managing and transmitting discrete data or credentials.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile a security context authentication system and method that utilizes dynamic enrollment and authentication across all mobile devices of users as opposed to device by device credential seeding matching and association.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile a security context authentication system and method that utilizes private non identifying authentication of users devices sites sessions factors.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile a security context authentication system and method that utilizes physical line of sight sound sensation context verification of digital assumptions.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile a security context authentication system and method that utilizes technology protocol and or platform agnostic implementation across multiple devices.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a mobile a security context authentication system and method that utilizes a user controlled authentication personalization factors such as behavior context location via in app options and configuration.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a new novel system and method that offers a superior solution in the field science and area of electronic authentication.

These as well as other components steps features objects benefits and advantages will now become clear from a review of the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments the accompanying drawings and the claims.

In the following detailed description of various embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various aspects of one or more embodiments of the invention. However one or more embodiments of the invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and or components have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of embodiments of the invention.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. As will be realized the invention is capable of modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the graphs figures and the detailed descriptions thereof are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive. Also the reference or non reference to a particular embodiment of the invention shall not be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention.

In the following description certain terminology is used to describe certain features of one or more embodiments of the invention. For instance the terms device computer electronic data processing unit invention server or server refers to any device that processes information with an integrated circuit chip including without limitation personal computers mainframe computers workstations servers desktop computers portable computers laptop computers embedded computers wireless devices including cellular phones personal digital assistants tablets tablet computers smart phones portable game players and hand held computers. The term internet refers to any collection of networks that utilizes standard protocols whether Ethernet Token ring Wifi asynchronous transfer mode ATM Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI code division multiple access CDMA global systems for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE or any combination thereof. The term website refers to any document written in a mark up language including but not limited to hypertext mark up language HTML or virtual reality modeling language VRML dynamic HTML extended mark up language XML wireless markup language WML or any other computer languages related thereto as well as to any collection of such documents reachable through one specific Internet Protocol Address or at one specific World Wide Web site or any document obtainable through any particular Uniform Resource Locator URL . Furthermore the terms webpage page website or site refers to any of the various documents and resources on the World Wide Web in HTML XHTML format with hypertext links to enable navigation from one page or section to another or similar such resources used on the Internet.

The term factor refers to any factors including multi mass factors during the main authentication session including without limitation personalized authentication context factors or personal factors e.g. location factors behavioral factors custom factors proximity factors elements or factors of the session context in the perspective of the server e.g. host server link code object presentation location user device location any supplied credentials or cloud stored algorithms about the user behavior attributes or history elements of the session context in the perspective of the device e.g. elements of the website server device itself user and session behavioral actions of the user e.g. facing north orienting the mobile in portrait mode or executing a gesture or exist within certain location or proximity attributes such as nearness to the server display screen or another device or fixed location point and external factors such as one or more of an out of band personal identification numbers PIN passphrase shared secret data one time password or reused password delivered via email short message service SMS multimedia service MMS voice physical token or other human or computer mediated transmission outside of the user channel host channel and smart channel.

The present invention is preferably a multi factor context authentication security method and system that uses one or more electronic computing devices across a network and one or more contextual factors within a defined session. One embodiment of the invention occurs when a user wishes to log into a website or application. The user may access a host or website over a user channel from his or her computer or other type of electronic data processing unit device through a browser and preferably logs in using a traditional username password combination thereof and or single sign on identification step. The website then preferably contacts the server across a host channel such as a private communication channel with a request to authenticate. In response the server preferably returns an object such as a QR code textual code or hyperlink to present the user. The server also preferably creates two or more templates in its memory a first template for its own processing and a second template for the consumption by the device or electronic data processing unit of the user . Additionally the website generally presents an object or link object back to the user over a presentation such as a browser channel. While using an application on his or her device the user selects or consumes the object by scanning sensing entering inputting or responding to the object. As a result the application preferably follows the object to retrieve the second template directly privately and independently from the server over a smart channel which is preferably a new discrete third channel separate from the user channel and host channel. The server then preferably populates the first template with contextual factors such as elements of the session context e.g. host server link code object presentation location user device location any supplied credentials or cloud stored algorithms about the user behavior attributes or history . Using such contextual factors from the perspective of the server the server preferably algorithmically populates the first template to construct a first signature i.e. a one time context signature in memory. Simultaneously or approximately near the same time the application on the device of the user preferably randomly populates similar contextual factors from the perspective of the device using elements of the website server device itself user and session. This step preferably results with the device of the user to independently populate the second template to algorithmically construct a second signature. The second signature may potentially correlate or conflict with the first signature of the server. Furthermore the user may perform certain behavioral actions e.g. facing north orienting the mobile in portrait mode or executing a gesture or exist within certain location or proximity attributes such as nearness to the server display screen or another device or fixed location point which are also preferably interrogated in real time and further strengthen the second signature of the user. Any data from expected performance location proximity or other contextual factors from a previous user or device may create complementary modification of the algorithm on the server. Regardless of number composition and depth of inputs i.e. a multi mass signature the templates and signatures are preferably unique and distinct from each other and any other previous or future objects. Preferably the first and second signatures are not reused or replayed but rather modified by new inputs attributes and contextual factors. Upon completion creating the first and second signatures the server and device preferably compare their respective signatures over the smart channel bypassing the user channel e.g. browser and host channel. If the first signature and second signature match the entire context is preferably mutually authenticated. On the other hand if the first signature and second signature fail to match the mutual context is preferably not authenticated. Generally no information or key value pairs are captured or transmitted but rather algorithmically applied once at the server end and user end. The server preferably informs the user device and the host the authentication status and as a result the parties may proceed appropriately depending upon the results of the authentication. All session components are preferably destroyed in memory and no information is preferably stored written read retrieved or seeded to or from the device during any part of the authentication process.

The main user is generally any individual who wishes to authenticate a communication session with the host and server by using a real time mutual triangulated multi factor authentication on a device using application from display or presentation to device . The device is typically an electronic data processing unit that performs various functions through its application such as scanning and sensing and is preferably network capable. Presentation is in the present embodiment is preferably a unidirectional display or emitter for the scanning clicking entry sensing consumption or processing and decoding by the main user on the device via the application . Preferably the scanning to transmit towards the authoritative service at the back end includes a complete encrypted integrity of the process or complete decomposition isolation and inspection of the credentials by the authority against a stored database of literal data. The host is typically any independent computer mobile computing device electronic data processing unit server application or website that is connected to a network which may provide information resources services and application to users or other nodes on the network. The server is preferably any computer computer program or electronic data processing unit that assists in managing access to a centralized resource or service in a network. The application is preferably one or more pieces of computer software that causes the device computer or electronic data processing unit to perform any useful task beyond the running of the computer itself.

The user channel host channel smart channel and out of band channel are preferably separate channels of communications within a network independent from each other. Specifically the user channel is preferably a specified frequency band for the transmission and reception of electromagnetic signals between presentation and host . The host channel is preferably a specified frequency band for the transmission and reception of electromagnetic signals between host and server . The smart channel is preferably a specified frequency band for the transmission and reception of electromagnetic signals between server and device . The out of band channel is preferably one or more specified frequency bands outside the smart channel for the transmission and reception of electromagnetic signals between server and device for authentication purposes.

The profile algorithm is preferably the persistent element function or object of the server for processing and preferably represents a unique context of a user device site session behavior location proximity and custom factors. Generally each context has a unique algorithm stored in the server or server cloud either generated at first registration or referred to upon subsequent authentication for template generation and resultant processing.

The first template and second template are preferably any files file type or combination of coding elements that are disposable purpose built surrogate context specific and dynamic in mass size sequence format structure depth and quantity of registers whose composition and population algorithm is defined by the context and member processing.

Object or link object is preferably any link element that is general placed inside a file or script for the consumption by the main user on application of the device through scanning sensing clicking or manually entering the object into the application programmatically with the application or from the presentation to the device over the host channel .

The first signature and second signature are preferably any elements in the file or file itself used to authenticate each server client station mobile computing device or electronic data processing unit during the authentication session.

Referring to the first step of the mobile security context authentication system and method generally occurs when main user requests access to a resource host such as a host . Specifically the main user preferably requests access to a resource and may perform an action over a network requiring entitlement or authentication on server or host server at presentation over the user channel from the device of the main user in a fixed session or context. The fixed session or context may occur within between or among a browser an application a program a network a server or a fixed electronic data processing unit or mobile electronic data processing unit.

In response as shown in in the third step the server preferably constructs to the request from host over host channel two or more template objects based on the synthesis of the main session factors generated profile algorithm and or random values. The template objects e.g. first template and second template are preferably different purpose built disposable and universally unique data elements stores in the memory of the server . The two or more template objects are preferably constructed and processed by the profile algorithm which is typically either a generated object first time user authentication or a cloud stored object. As discussed above the two or more template objects are preferably a first template and second template wherein the first template is preferably generated fully from profile algorithm for server self consumption and processing while second template is only a partially generated for transmission consumption population and processing by main user or device . Preferably neither the first template nor second template contains nor reveals any relationship to profile algorithm the user device identification number the host and the session details. The first template and second template are preferably and merely universally unique partial containers to be independently and algorithmically populated and processed in real time during the invention authentication process.

Regarding the fourth step the server preferably returns to host an object or link object over the host channel rather than the actual or even surrogate object values . The object preferably provides a reference to link the main user to the target object second template as shown in .

Additionally in the fourth step shown in host preferably presents displays or emits that an object to main user device at presentation over user channel for scanning clicking entry sensing consumption or processing and decoding by main user on device via the application . Due to session environmental opportunities or constraints the path or link to the second template may be embodied by object for consumption by the device main user in any of but not limited to the following formats a visual or audible code QR code image tag string hyperlink image sound scanned or sensed by a capable mobile device manual code email Tweet direct message DM short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hyperlink remote procedural call RPC typed in by a user programmatic code in memory message application programming interface API function or method call in application to application as shown in or other transmission near field communication NFC device environmental vibration device bump or motion contextual message gesture behavior challenge response gamified user activity at the presentation or device of skill or chance .

In memory server preferably dynamically interrogates measures and populates its specific profile algorithm generated first template with any contextual factor observations from the present session of one or more information or attributes regarding the session host presentation device main user host location presentation location device location user location user channel any transmitted external factors and either it is stored or host provided knowledge of device factors and personalization factors e.g. behavior location proximity custom for main user . In particular server preferably measures triangulates and computes the physical and digital location proximity user location device location presentation location host location of presentation object and device from its perspective via measuring both object presentation and device as shown in . Server then preferably computes and stores in memory a dynamic purpose built signature algorithm first signature based on the first template main session. Server then preferably disposes all data relating to the multi mass factor as shown in fifth step .

The object is preferably consumed by the main user on device through scanning sensing clicking or manually entering the object either into application programmatically with application application to application rollover within device or from presentation to device presentation to device over host channel as shown in sixth step .

Application on the device preferably and dynamically follows object path over triangulated smart channel back to server to request receive and consume the new actual second template back over smart channel . Consumption of the second template is preferably not constrained or limited to the aforementioned method used to transmit and or consume the object itself. Alternate triangulated channels may also be used without deviating from the scope of the invention as shown in seventh step . The method of authentication process initiation of the present invention is typically drastically different from the traditional capture decode and forward approach of most QR code based techniques found in conventional methods and represents a leap forward in strength privacy and integrity as the code value of the object transmitted presentation and consumed application on the device is disposable and not private or identifying. In addition the launch point generally represents the final responsibility of the host and presentation unlike conventional methods which must embed host or session info within the code for consumption association with static mobile or user credentials and eventual paired transmission back to an authenticating server. In the present invention the obfuscation or hiding of the coded data is generally not seminal to its security or functionality but merely a path to a more private and controlled session connection for consumption of the authentication session object and therefore a more robust secure and novel approach.

Next application on the device preferably consumes the second template and interrogates itself and the context in real time from the perspective of the device main user as shown in eighth step . Application then preferably algorithmically populates the second template with one or more contextual factors device factors personal factors regarding any or all of the following host host location presentation presentation location device device location main user main user location device behavior main user behavior device channel main user channel out of band factor device factors behavior factor location factor and custom factor. Application via device may use also native global position system GPS accelerometer Internet Protocol IP to geo mapping services software or hardware capabilities or custom technology to harvest the contextual factors and triangulate its line of sight sense context with object presentation and server with its digital observations of location and proximity as shown in . Each mobile computing device preferably will be unique to itself with respect to such capabilities and thus only needs to match itself and not other devices with differing capabilities or access to factors. The present invention also surpasses conventional security methods by dynamically measuring not just absolute location Geo IP of the session members host device server but also the proximity of active members presentation application on the device by nature of verifying both line of sight sound proximity and digital proximity from multiple perspectives. This method is generally the only way to ensure both physical and digital measurements are genuine via multi source observation and algorithmic context computation. The present invention also preferably measures that not only the members are where the members should be policy geo fence absolute location but that the members are in appropriate proximity context such as standing in front of the automated teller machine ATM screen laptop or kiosk from two different methods and means of interrogation physical and digital.

Server preferably further computes the algorithmic first signature based on additional observation and population of the first template after the device consumption of object second template and any optional delivery of any out of band factors to the main user as shown in ninth step .

Server preferably computes final algorithmic first signature and disposes of the first template and all contextual factors. Preferably no discrete non surrogate factors challenges responses key value pairs or personally identifying data are stored on the server or leave server or travel over user channel host channel and smart channel as shown in tenth step .

Optionally the main user may input into the application on the device any previously or presently delivered out of band data such as challenges and responses transmitted via the out of band channel from either the host or server . The application may further process algorithmic second signature by using the second template . If configured and performed by the main user device or application the second signature is preferably further modified additional real time personal factors behavior factors location factors and device factors based on user behavior location or customization as shown in eleventh step .

Next application preferably computes final algorithmic signature of the second signature and disposes the second template and all factors in memory as shown in twelfth step . Preferably no discrete non surrogate factors challenges key value pairs or data are stored on or ever leave the device or travel over user channel host channel or smart channel . The main user is also preferably not responsible for recognition recall entry possession awareness exposure control or knowledge of any and all factors except for optional out of band factors.

Over triangulated smart band channel server and application on the device preferably compute or compare purpose built first signature and second signature respectively for mutual algorithmic verification as shown in thirteenth step . The first signature and second signature may be of equal similar or different mass structure and format. Further the algorithmic signature comparison and evaluation may include but is not limited to equality congruence complement correlation masking challenge response summation computation or any other expected or actual algorithmic result.

If the mutual algorithmic context verification can be achieved i.e. second signature is essentially identical or substantially similar to the first signature then total context verification decision is authenticated and the main user device and host are generally mutually verified by application and server as shown in fourteenth step .

On the other hand if the mutual algorithmic context verification cannot be achieved i.e. second signature is not identical or substantially similar to the first signature for whatever reason then context verification decision is not authenticated and the main user device and host are preferably not mutually verified by the application and server as shown in fifteenth step .

Preferably server simultaneously informs application on the device the context verification decision status over the smart channel and host over the host channel as shown in sixteenth step .

All the context authenticity components factors processes channels sessions data and context verification decision and algorithms are preferably destroyed and removed from the memory and any areas of the server application on the device and host . Further the host channel and smart channel connection channels are preferably dropped application is preferably closed and nothing is preferably written to seeded or left behind in the process as shown in seventeenth step .

Optionally host and or device main user may proceed with appropriate actions based on the results of context verification decision either alone or in combination with other non invention processing results decisions or status as shown in eighteenth step .

Optionally server reprocesses and updates profile algorithm in the cloud based on the results of the context verification decision processing in the case of either a first enrollment session or an authoritative update for the profile algorithm. Unlike traditional multi factor or identity approaches nothing literal is preferably stored in the back end data store that can identify or remember a user only a partial algorithm that is applied to actual factor observations to validate or invalidate the authenticity and correlation of ensuing authentication context inputs.

The following are examples are various embodiments of the invention in order to help provide a thorough understanding of various aspects of one or more embodiments of the invention. While multiple embodiments are disclosed the invention is capable of modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the following examples are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

The main user preferably logs into a website on a desktop or laptop with a user identification number or via a single sign on service e.g. Twitter Facebook etc. . Upon logging in the host may programmatically call the server and is returned a bespoke object such as a QR code. The main user is typically presented the object on the website display browser or screen. The main user preferably opens and activates his or her iPhone a mobile device i.e. device scans or senses the object or code on the screen. The object or code preferably triggers the mobile invention application to contact the server over the secondary channel and both typically begin to mutually interrogate each other the site session and context and preferably algorithmically compute the one time signatures i.e. first signature second signature . Using GPS and IP location the server and application of the device generally measures the location of both the original object on display i.e. object and the location of the main user and device for both absolute and proximity calculation. These factors are preferably algorithmically applied at each end to the signature. Upon mutual verification of those signatures by the mobile application and server the authentication decision is preferably reached and status i.e. context verification decision is generally communicated to all parties. All other processing is handled passively without user involvement or knowledge interrogation or challenge response. The main user is generally then free to proceed into the site having been given permission by the site based on a positive authentication status or denied based on a negative one. As such definitive multi factor context authentication is preferably achieved.

The main user opens a gaming application on their mobile Android device. From within the gaming application the application is called on the device through an inner device API an application programming interface called a protocol handler in this instance . Preferably no code scan or manual entry is generally required. The session link is generally passed from game to the application seamlessly via protocol handler i.e. rolling over in an application to application fashion. Upon launch of that application the location and behavior of the main user orientation of the device are measured along with the corresponding standard credentials and algorithmically applied to the signatures on each side e.g. first signature and second signature . No data discrete is generally sent beyond the device or server aside from the resultant signatures. In this case it is generally found that the signatures second signature and first signature do not match or correlate. The main user therefore typically fails to authenticate and is generally denied access to the game. Under the hood it is preferable because the main user is in a country not authorized to play that game but neither this detail nor the ability to circumvent its enforcement is exposed to the main user the network or the session. Security protection is typically achieved through context aware authentication.

The main user logs into a site host at presentation as in the first example but from a brand new mobile device i.e. second device not previously recognized or registered. The main user typically scans the screen after login and fails authentication i.e. the second signature does not match the first signature due to bad device factors credentials. The user is then presented with a private one time challenge out of band factors sent out of band via private Tweet from Twitter per preference that main user preferably enters into the mobile device application i.e. application on the second device. This entry is synthesized with the rest of the second template factors to create a new modified second signature. The modified second signature is preferably re compared with the newly modified first signature privy to the custom challenge sent and both modified signatures now match allowing for successfully context authentication and immediate update of additional second device data factors back on the server . Preferably no literal device had to be sent over the smart channel and the user was generally swiftly authenticated in context. In this case the invention server instance of profile algorithm is preferably updated due to the modification of the new blessed device.

These examples are merely illustrative of and not limited to the total options and possibilities of applying this invention to alternate new and emerging technologies and capabilities with respect to host user device or server context verification and authentication requirements constraints opportunities and embodiments.

The first template and second template are preferably disposable purpose built surrogate context specific and dynamic in mass i.e. size sequence format structure depth and quantity of registers whose composition and population algorithm is generally defined by the context and member processing. The mutual verification decision by the server and the device is generally achieved algorithmically not by a lookup and match process based on static fixed or reusable reference information. Neither the first template nor the second template is the match authority for the other or others in the case of many . The context verification decision of the template signatures i.e. the first signature and second signature is generally mathematically achieved or not. Preferably the detailed results of the context verification decision or anticipation thereof cannot be computed or known by either the server or device in advance until either the server or device enters into the processing context session with all members present based on the profile algorithm generated templates.

Generally the profile algorithm is the persistent element of the processing of the server that represents a unique context of a user device site session behavior location proximity and custom factors. Each context preferably has a unique algorithm stored in the server cloud either generated at first registration or referred to upon subsequent authentication for template generation and resultant processing. In normal use the profile algorithm is used to generate two templates as shown in step when requested by host to authenticate the main user device context. The first template destined for processing by the server is generally more complete while the second template for application device consumption is generally less complete. Both the first template and second template however are generally based on the profile algorithm mathematical seed used to assert correlation later during context verification decision processing as both the first template and second template are modulated by dynamic and random factor input and influence resulting in potentially correlative decision signatures. The profile algorithm is then preferably used to process the first signature and second signature to ascertain correlation by both the application device and server for mutual authentication without requiring a single authoritative lookup or match. All components decisions processed by context verification decision are generally purpose built and are mathematically universally unique. The approach of the present invention is revolutionary over existing methods in that the existing methods rely on simple pattern matching or persistent public private key distribution custody and maintenance. The mobile security context authentication system and method of the present invention however preferably allows for the use of multiple devices without key distribution automatic enrollment at first use and capacity to process infinitely measurable factors behaviors and contexts. Furthermore unlike conventional security authentication methods and schemes the host main user or device factors algorithms or signatures are not federated on the server to avoid cross context management and association of privacy risk. While existing and conventional security authentication methods may utilize such federation as a feature or benefit the present invention regards context federation as a liability. As such the association of privacy risk generally must be managed enforced and verified independently from the invention and generally do not add to the usability strength or security of the present invention.

Generally the present invention does not allow discrete data to be reused or sent between the internal processing layers or external communication channels in a non synthesized non surrogate form. Additionally no data key value pairs generally ever travel over the same transmission channel. The challenges and responses generally do not travel over the same transmission channel in the same direction i.e. user channel host channel and smart channel and no discrete data generally ever leaves the internal layer in which the internal layer was observed or interrogated.

The entire context verification decision process is generally both triangulated and air gapped among the host the server and device main user across encrypted channels the user channel host channel and smart channel and optionally the out of band channel . Preferably no non surrogate identifiers relating to the host device or main user are transmitted alone or in key value pairs. The random factor values are generally applied algorithmically to each template value as opposed to literally transmitted inspected or identified.

The resultant signature comparison process of the context verification decision generally applies the profile algorithm across the spectrum of all possible and factual multi mass factor values amongst first signature and second signature to achieve context verification without individual factor identification lookup or matching. This one way processing preferably achieves either context verification decision correlation or non correlation but never association or definition based on the profile algorithm.

Authentication and context processing data preferably flows simultaneously bi directionally across the encrypted user channel host channel and smart channel thereby ensuring immunity from interception correlation replay or predictability. Unlike systems disclosed in existing references which transmit the secure data flow in one direction from source to authority through the host presentation and device to equivalent server for inspection comparison often as an encoded encrypted or obfuscated key value pair the present invention preferably separates and bifurcates that surrogate flow by design as a method for more mutual secure private and effective interrogation measurement integrity analysis and immunity from compromise.

The host server and main user device are preferably members of an interdependent authentication context formula that departs from the traditionally client server shared secret model. Unlike existing methods there is usually no persistent authority data lookup and compare match in the present invention. Only through active presence and participation by all members and multi perspective interrogation of any or all factors can the context verification decision be mutually agreed upon. All factors merely and typically influence the authentication algorithms and therefore usually modify the resultant signatures for mutual authentication rather than transmit in whole or in part for eventual authoritative comparison against a stored and retrieved reference value. This separation of concerns in the present invention is novel contextual interdependent and strong innovation with respect to context authentication and privacy.

Transmission and embodiment of object via the presentation may be performed by any method or mode required or supported by the technical transmission and consumption opportunities or limitations of the host and device across the user channel host channel and smart channel . These conceptual areas are generally known by those having ordinary skill in the art and are typically covered by existing references and are merely employed to support maximum effective and successful transmission of the object in many various contexts. Examples of such embodiments for the transmission of object include but are not limited to 1 visual image tag video or QR code link presented by a browser display or printable object scanned by a mobile electronic computing device with such capabilities 2 audible signal transmitted and sensed by a mobile computing device from a source 3 textual visual audible or programmatic transmission via SMS MMS email Tweet direct message chat browser hyperlink app display physically printed or visually encoded stream to a mobile computing device 4 near field NFC encoded stream transmitted and consumed by mobile computing device 5 sensory transmission and consumption of behavior such as gestures device bumping movement acceleration motion proximity or other stimulus response mechanisms 6 programmatic interface exchange of data such as RPC API in memory process database query pulse time code cached or inter process communication 7 human manual or gesture entry of data received or deduced from oral written dramatic musical visual emotional historical interpretive or other non computing transmission and 8 any or all of the above transmitted received and consumed either in band or out of band with or without the assistance of intermediary technology humans symbols or language.

The use of QR codes in the present invention as opposed to all existing methods are merely utilized for their main purpose to simply transmit a universal resource locator URL link to the application on the device through scanning and decoding linking entering or processing. Conventional methods generally rely upon the use of QR codes to embed encode or encrypt secret session website user or challenge information to be decoded and later paired with device or user factors and sent in tandem to the back end service for identification. When used the present invention avoids overloading of the QR code and simply relies upon the QR code for its open and patent free intended purpose i.e. providing an elegant and usable method to transmit a URL or session target from the presentation screen to the mobile application through optical scanning by the camera of the device and decoding by the application .

All the multi mass factors may be any or all contextual factors that can be challenged interrogated sensed inferred performed immediately or historically measured by one more members individually or in combination with other factors or members from one or more perspectives and channel pathways at one or more times during the lifecycle of the session or across multiple sessions. The present invention preferably assumes a multi mass signature server signature second signature based on an interrogation and a profile algorithm generated template population of one to many individual context factors that include without limitation 1 server device session network or user characteristics attributes or context 2 member device presentation or network location proximity or boundaries 3 fixed original defined proximal relational absolute or mobile location or movement 4 user or device behavior gesture statistics orientation performance response or pattern 5 challenge response gamified user behavior test skill activity recall or recognition 6 historical analysis of data statistics behavior context location proximity or motion 7 individual text challenges and responses images strings phrases words PINs numbers and 8 other factors enabled or supported by emerging host device or server technology or processing.

Examples of such factors may be the main user successfully authenticating with all normal credentials when the main user is holding the mobile device in portrait mode facing north. These behaviors and locations act as multi mass factor inputs to the algorithmic processing of the first template and second template to arrive at the signature decision. Any other orientation would affect and yield an invalid signature but not reveal the nature or cause of the failure to the network user or a hacker.

Another example may be the historical measurement of the main user device location movement or even motion walking gait reference device carried height range of motion etc. over time. If upon authentication those factors were out of proportions with normal historical usage otherwise acceptable credentials would typically fall out of context signature or perhaps trigger additional out of band rigor to verify. However the credentials are neither used for nor physically inspected or transmitted in a manner that individually identifies the user in a non private immutable fashion.

The mutual authentication and context verification decision are preferably designed for the purpose of enabling the main host or main user device to access authorize enter submit verify confirm present download stream purchase modify delete cancel or otherwise interact with appropriate entitlement any session resource data physical virtual location content goods services media experiences connections accomplishments messages etc. either solely upon its merits pass fail or in combination with other context verification decisions or pre existing parallel or post processing native or external identity or authentication methods credentials or decisions. The context verification decision may also be based on processing one or more hosts users devices and templates for all factors in isolation sequence or combination context. For example where no host exists the entire context verification decision process may occur among first user first device second user second device and the server to provide peer to peer context verification decisions. Another example may be when multiple user device combinations against a single host server are contextually verified to jointly authenticate and unlock a common resource or asset in the host .

As shown in user channel host channel smart channel and out of band channel may involve homogeneous or heterogeneous communication channels and technologies directional flows transmission mediums either encrypted or unencrypted human or digitally mediated proxied or direct at simultaneous or staggered times or time to live TTLs . The user channel may traditionally be a web connection between the host and the end user display device presentation or device in case of on mobile browsing application . The host channel may be a private connection between the host and the server . The smart channel is preferably a second private connection between the server and the device of the main user . The out of band channel preferably represents an optional additional channel between either 1 the host and main user device or 2 server and main user device such as email SMS chat or voice calls to deliver one time out of band factors or data to the user for use within the invention flow.

Preferably at no time are the templates context verification decisions factors or channels capable of or used for the purpose of identifying exposing or recording the identity of the main user or device in the process only to authenticate and verify the context against previously verified contexts. An example of this would be the conventional approach of recording the IP address of host or device endpoints of any equivalent channel e.g. user channel host channel smart channel and out of band channel . The present invention merely typically uses these inputs to modify the algorithm and resultant affect on the template signature an obviously an innovative and more robust secure and private approach.

Preferably the only main user device data persisted at server are profile algorithms used to process the device factors and personalization factors i.e. behavior location proximity custom in a non associative algorithmic form that feeds the composition and processing of the first template . Preferably the server cannot use the profile algorithm device factors or personalization factors repeatedly or predictively to identity a user device session location or context at any time before or after an active session. Rather the server can only serve to provide inputs into the real time processing and modification of the first template within the active session that eventually leads to a mutually verified result i.e. the context verification decision with processing done in real time at the device upon the creation and comparison of the second template .

Context verification decision data is generally not stored persisted on or recalled from the device or the main user . Preferably all the factors stored within the device main user are dynamically interrogated queried sensed or prompted for in real time by the application processed into the second template and eventually the second signature and immediately disposed from memory. Generally no discrete all factors from the device main user are transmitted outside of the device across user channel host channel smart channel at any time. Unlike conventional authentication methods the present invention preferably does not rely upon cookies certificates or persistent public private keys seeded either stored or referenced upon the device.

The location triangulation among host device and server is generally accomplished through a synthesis of line of sight ambient sound or direct or physical vibration motion sensation and the digital information obtained from location aware technology including without limitation GPS carrier code IP to location mapping optical verification of a common universally unique visual field or perspective audible verification of a common acoustic environment or perspective shown in . For example location factor is preferably computed by both the server and the application on the device via multi perspective triangulated synthesis of the digital and physical location data of the host presentation object and device at point of delivery presentation consumption processing and messaging in relation to the server . Preferably no single source of location factor data is considered authoritative just as with the context verification decision itself. Preferably all components either align or equate or the context cannot be verified.

While the foregoing written description of the invention enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations combinations and equivalents of the specific embodiment method and examples herein. The invention should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment method and examples but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the invention as claimed.

The gamification of the present invention preferably refers to infusion of user behavior traits behavioral design techniques and or user style for the authentication process. The gamification process of the invention is used preferably one or more applications and processes to improve the authenticating process.

These processing constraints may be over and above what host or server may require affording the main user control and customization. As a result additional strength privacy and robustness of the authentication context verification typically occurs.

During the registration process R1 as shown in the second step in the main user preferably performs the processing of the second template for the second signature . This may be performed by the main user by selecting opting into purchasing configuring and or performing the processing to interrogate and process any or all of the user factors via in application purchase and controls within the application on the device personal factors comprised of 1 behavior factors i.e. something the user or device does or can do 2 location factors i.e. somewhere the user or device is or is in relation to or 3 custom factors i.e. custom factors of knowledge preference skill or chance .

Next the third step of shows that during the registration process R1 by the application the behavior factors location factors and custom factors are generally interrogated along with the standard multi factors per the policy of the main user or configuration. The population of the second template and the processing of the first signature is generally affected by these factors and that algorithmic processing is usually transmitted to the server and recorded as an update to profile algorithm alongside standard device factors for use in future the server s first template to first signature generation and processing.

When either the host or main user requests an context verification decision the processing of the first template to the first signature is preferably processed on the server according to the personal factors that influence the profile algorithms as shown in sixth step .

Then upon processing the second template the application preferably interrogates recreates and or performs the actual metrics of the personal factors along with balancing of all of the existing factors to create the second signature as shown in seventh step .

If the first signature does not match the second signature the context verification decision is preferably false or unauthenticated. On the other hand if the first signature matches the second signature the context verification decision is preferably considered true or authenticated as shown in eighth step .

Alternatively if the first signature is not complementary or correlative to the second signature the context verification decision is preferably considered false or unauthenticated. If the first signature is complementary or correlative to the second signature the context verification decision is preferably considered true or authenticated as shown in ninth step .

Optionally if the first signature does not match the second signature for any reason the server or host may send the out of band factors to the main user via the out of band channel for entry into the second template . The server may do the same with the first template re compute first signature second signature and permit an update to either the device factors personal factors or both as shown in tenth step . This may occur when a new unrecognized device is utilized when the location factors changes or a new or different user behavior factors or custom factors are performed or observed by the application on the device during authentication.

Optionally the host may require the server to enable all the personal factors and device factors from its initial request to authenticate over host channel thus enabling the above functionality to be passively interrogated and processed via the application on the device with or without main user device permission awareness or intentional participation for the population of the second template and the computation of the second signature as shown in eleventh step .

The following are examples are various embodiments of the invention in order to help provide a thorough understanding of various aspects of one or more embodiments of the invention. While multiple embodiments are disclosed the invention is capable of modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the following examples are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

In this first example one will assume that the main user is preferably engaging a normal authentication flow against host from device as described in the first invention and has preferably selected purchased configured the application to perform additional personalized authentication behavioral factor rigor. Upon login the process of the main user preferably provides all the valid credentials but does not usually perform any special behavior. The main user is met with a failed status generally resulting from a mismatch between second signature and first signature due to missing personal factors factor algorithm influence and resultant signature modification . Upon retry the main user preferably holds the device in portrait mode to scan and may shake the device in a certain motion i.e. the expected behavior . As a result the main user is preferably met with successful authentication status i.e. second signature matches the first signature due to the application of the appropriate factor influence on the signature processing.

In this second example the main user preferably has pre configured for protection through in application purchase selection and configuration the constraint of failing to authenticate if the context is such that his or her device is not in the same location as presentation or his or her device is not in the same locale as when the main user first registered i.e. first registration . The main user logs in scans the webpage authentication code and fails to authenticate realizing that he or she is overseas and not in his or her home locale. The main user retries and is prompted with an out of band factor to verify they wish to add this locale as a trusted one. The main user receives the out of band factor via email enters it into the application on device and a new modified second template is computed compared with the commensurate server modified first template. The main user is then preferably authenticated. In addition the server version of the main user profile algorithm via specifically personal factor location factor is updated for the new locale influence for future processing.

In this example the main user has preferably configured the application with a custom personal identification number PIN to unlock the application when used on the device . If the main user loses his or her device and another user tries to authenticate in context without entry of that personal identification number the second signature will not match the first signature and authentication will typically fail thus protecting the main user and device . The process will generally not reveal why the failure happens to ensure the other user does not gain insight or information to retry or attempt replay reverse engineering or modification of the context to gain illicit access. Upon retrieval of the device the proper main user enters his or her PIN and may resume seamless and appropriate contextual authentication.

These examples are merely illustrative of and not limited to the total options and possibilities of applying this invention to alternate new and emerging technologies and capabilities with respect to user or device behavior context location or customization.

Despite infinite discrete possible values or combinations for personal factors or device factors the algorithmic representation within first template second template and therefore first signature second signature will preferably be universally unique but of a resolute value of predictable depth for re processing by the server or device respectively. It is permissible for first template and second template as well as first signature and second signature to be either of similar or different composition depth length and or structure.

The effect of personal factors upon context verification decision is fully within the main user control and its processing is preferably irrelevant to host who is merely concerned with overall definitive context verification decision status. This preferably illustrates the innovation and novelty of this invention under the auspices of the main user with respect to strengthening privatizing or personalizing their authentication context via the application over and above the demands of server or host .

The personal factors and device factors preferably cannot and do not identify the main user or the device outside of the context of the first signature second signature context signature processing and context verification decision . They are preferably not independent factors or meaningful user or device identifiers in any respect.

The behavioral factors can be any of but not limited to the following the main user or device gesture main user or device motion main user or device orientation and historical behavior over time such as the gait height motion speed gesture of the main user or the performance of the main user via any act gesture motion or behavior in response to a game challenge stimulus or instruction presented on device .

Location factors may be any of the following but not limited to the main user or device location at registration versus authentication main user or device location against predefined server policy constraints main user or device proximity to another user device host or presentation main user or device proximity to the presentation main user or device location or proximity against a previous location or proximity main user or device absolute location or proximity to any known point main user or device parallel or contrary motion against a location or proximity.

Custom factors may be any of the following without limitation main user custom personal identification number PIN main user custom challenge the main user and host shared secret third party challenges or factors hardware tokens or challenge factors and API driven factors such as detecting presence of other services devices applications or data.

In a broad embodiment of the invention it is applied as a layer of authentication security above username and password single sign on or social login implementations as a multi factor or defense in depth approach to establishing trust authenticity and context of the members of a website application network computer hardware computer software or computer game session.

In another embodiment the invention could be used standalone as a sole means of identifying and authenticating a user or device against a server website or application with a single scan and triangulated context verification.

Another embodiment involves the application of this invention to enforce authentication for users accessing physical locations protected by locked entry capable of interface with a mobile electronic computing device via line of sound sight sensation NFC and textual data entry or biometric command such as a door window vehicle or vault.

Another embodiment involves establishing authentication context verification to support a payment form submission access modification interaction or execution of a process within a program website app server network or session where login identity is not the goal but in process verification entitlement or authorization of an action by a previously identified and or authenticated user or device.

Another embodiment involves the implementation of the invention in a media environment set top device television display cinema open air audio broadcast live event gaming console where the mobile and the screen interact to authenticate the user device location context to enable access interaction or entitle engagement with the media game or content. An example would be a hotel room or store with a set top DVR or broadcast capability access to which is authorized through authentication by the invention.

Yet another embodiment involves the application of the invention with paper or printed materials for real time authentication and payment processing proof of receipt or acknowledgment verification of attendance access or permission to entry or engagement with the content location or assets symbolized by the printed material. Users scan the material and are authenticated in context of the location device user session and other factors.

Another embodiment involves the use of multiple simultaneous applications of the authentication invention to co authenticate overlapping contexts to provide mutual access to a common asset by multiple users devices or locations.

Another embodiment involves utilizing the invention technology to provide authentication control over social media content and connections over and above the native social network security mechanisms to provide granular and time extended user control over authenticated peer context access download and engagement with that content or connections.

While the foregoing written description of the invention enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations combinations and equivalents of the specific embodiment method and examples herein. The invention should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment method and examples but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the invention as claimed.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the above detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. As will be realized the invention is capable of modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the detailed description is to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive. Also although not explicitly recited one or more embodiments of the invention may be practiced in combination or conjunction with one another. Furthermore the reference or non reference to a particular embodiment of the invention shall not be interpreted to limit the scope the invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention not be limited by this detailed description but by the claims and the equivalents to the claims that are appended hereto.

Except as stated immediately above nothing which has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

