---

title: Providing multiple roles in computer-implemented workspaces
abstract: Providing multiple roles in computer-implemented workspaces. When a first computer workspace in which a user has been assigned a first role and a second role is accessed, a first subset of content defined by the first role and a second subset of content defined by the second role can be made accessible to the user. Input to switch access from the first computer workspace to a second computer workspace that is different from the first computer workspace and in which the user is assigned only the second role can be received. In response, only the second subset of content can be provided to the user and access to the first subset of content can be prohibited.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600849&OS=09600849&RS=09600849
owner: SAP Portals Israel Ltd.
number: 09600849
owner_city: Ra'anana
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20130312
---
The present disclosure relates to software computer systems and computer implemented media for implementing workspaces in computer systems.

Enterprise Workspace EWS technology leverages existing enterprise portal EP capabilities and acts as an add on to EP technology. For example EWS user interface UI technology can run on top of existing EP technology. EWS functionality can provide a flexible intuitive environment for single EWS users or groups of EWS users or both to create integrate organize compose modify and delete content through the use of modules both structured and unstructured on EWS pages within an EWS. EWS technology can allow EWS users to take advantage of a self service approach that is a decentralized approach in assembling content on EWS pages often without involvement by an enterprise s information technology group.

An EWS therefore is a central point where multiple EWS users can share content. Each EWS user can receive permission to access the EWS and the content in the EWS. Each EWS user can be assigned permissions and roles that in conjunction with a permission role policy can determine the content that each EWS user can access in the EWS. In some situations an EWS user can be assigned a global role with respect to the EWS. In such situations however the EWS user may not be able to participate in the EWS in a role other than the global role that has been assigned to the user.

The present disclosure involves systems software and computer implemented methods for providing multiple roles in computer implemented workspaces.

In general one innovative aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a method performed by data processing apparatus. A first computer workspace in which a user has been assigned a first role and a second role is identified. Each of the first computer workspace and the second computer workspace provides content. At least a portion of the content is accessible by the user. The first role defines a first subset of the content that is accessible by the user. The second role defines a second subset of the content that is accessible by the user. It is determined that the user has accessed the first computer workspace in which the user has been assigned the first role and the second role. The first subset of the content and the second subset of the content is provided to the user in response to determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace.

This and other aspects can include one or more of the following features. The content can include data and computer implemented applications accessible by the user. A first relationship and a second relationship between the user and the first computer workspace can be persisted. The first relationship and the second relationship can be based on the first role and the second role respectively. Persisting the first relationship can include tagging the first relationship with a string of characters that represents the first role. Persisting the first relationship can include persisting the first relationship in the first computer workspace. Persisting the second relationship can include persisting the second relationship in a user account associated with the user. Persisting the first relationship can include associating an identifier to identify the user and an identifier to identify the first computer workspace with the first role. Determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace can include receiving a selection of the first computer workspace in a user interface that displays the first computer workspace and a second computer workspace that is different from the first computer workspace. The user can be assigned only the second role in the second computer workspace. In response to receiving a selection of the second computer workspace in the user interface a different user interface that provides only the second subset of the content can be displayed. In the user interface an input to switch from the first computer workspace to the second computer workspace can be received. A different user interface that displays the second subset of content can be displayed in response to receiving the input to switch. Determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace can include automatically and without user intervention determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace when the user accesses a computer system that provides the workspaces. Automatically and without user intervention determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace can include determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace based on factors including a geographical location from which the user accesses the first computer workspace or the time of day.

Another innovative aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a computer readable medium storing instructions executable by data processing apparatus to perform the operations described here or a system that includes data processing apparatus and the computer readable medium or both .

A further innovative aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a system that includes data processing apparatus and a computer readable medium storing instructions executable by the data processing apparatus to perform operations. The operations can include determining access of a first computer workspace in which a user has been assigned a first role and a second role. The first computer workspace provides content at least a portion of which is accessible to the user. The first role and the second role define a first subset and a second subset respectively of the content that is accessible by the user. The operations include providing the first subset of the content and the second subset of the content to the user in response to determining the access of the first computer workspace. The operations include receiving input to switch access from the first computer workspace to a second computer workspace that is different from the first computer workspace. The user is assigned only the second role in the second computer workspace. The operations include providing the second subset of the content and prohibiting access to the first subset of the content in response to receiving the input to switch the access from the first computer workspace to the second computer workspace.

This and other aspects can include one or more of the following features. Determining the access of the first computer workspace can include automatically and without user intervention determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace. Automatically and without user intervention determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace can include automatically and without user intervention determining that the user has accessed the first computer workspace based on factors including a geographical location from which the user accesses the computer workspace or the time of day.

Another innovative aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a computer readable medium storing instructions executable by data processing apparatus to perform the operations described here or a computer implemented method performed by data processing apparatus or both .

While generally described as computer implemented software embodied on tangible media that processes and transforms the respective data some or all of the aspects may be computer implemented methods or further included in respective systems or other devices for performing this described functionality. The details of these and other aspects and implementations of the present disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A computer system can implement an external facing enterprise portal EP or a workspace that allows multiple users to access content that is available through the portal or the workspace. The workspace can be a collaboration component that resides on a computer system for example a frontend computer system and exposes content for example specific business data received from other computer systems such as backend computer systems. The workspace can assign multiple users permission to access the content of the workspace. Different users can be assigned different roles associated with respective permission levels. For example a first user can be defined as a Manager who has permission to modify the workspace. A second user can be defined as a Member who has permission to view content but not to modify the workspace structure. A third user can be defined as an Owner who is similar to a Manager but additionally has permission to close the workspace or transfer ownership of the workspace to a different user or both .

Often the permission level associated with a user is derived from the user s role in the workspace. As described above the first user who has been defined as a Manager can modify content for example data and computer implemented applications provided by the workspace while the second user who has been defined as a Member can only view the content. In some situations the computer system that provides the workspace can be a frontend computer system that is interconnected with backend computer systems. In such situations the permission level of a user can be determined or derived from the permission level for the user in one or more of the backend computer systems for example because the permissions for content that arrives from a backend computer system may reside on the backend computer system. That is there may be no relationship between the workspace level permission and the backend permission.

The workspace described above can be a generic workspace. In some cases the workspace can be used as part of a specific business solution and can solve a specific business problem. Different users can access the same workspace each user can be assigned a respective business level role. Alternatively or in addition the same user can access two or more different workspaces. In a first of the two workspaces the user can be assigned a role that is different from a role in a second of the two workspaces. In sum the same user can have different business level roles in different workspaces. In such cases the roles assigned to the same user in the different workspaces can be distinguished when assigning business levels roles to the user in each of the different workspaces.

One way to assign the same business level role to a user in multiple workspaces is to assign a global role to the user. Such system wide roles exist in many systems. For example the user can be a doctor of multiple patients each of whom is associated with a respective workspace. In this example different patients are associated with the same doctor who is helping each patient s recovery. Each patient is assigned a business level role of Patient globally and therefore when the user logs in to his assigned workspace i.e. the workspace in which the user as the patient is at the center he is indeed identified as the patient. The same doctor who is helping all of the different patients is assigned a global business level role of Doctor that is common to all the workspaces. A globally assigned business level role is one which applies to all workspaces. A workspace level role in contrast is one which applies to a specific workspace.

A problem with this flow is that once the user has been assigned a particular business role globally the user may not be able to participate in the workspace or in other workspaces under a different role. For example if the user is marked as a Doctor in one of the backend computer systems then the user is assigned the global role of Doctor in frontend and other related computer systems that implement respective workspaces. Consequently in all workspaces in which the user is a member the user will only have access to content available to a user assigned the role of Doctor. The same user may not be able to be assigned more than one role for example a Patient role and a Doctor role in the same workspace. For example the user who has been assigned the global business level role of Doctor may not be able to access any workspace as a Patient. At any instant the user can either be in the Patient role or in the Doctor role but not both. Thus the user can be a doctor in all workspaces in the system but cannot have a workspace in which that same user is defined as a patient.

This disclosure describes solutions to the afore described problems by providing multiple roles in computer implemented workspaces. The techniques described below enable a single user to be assigned different business level roles in the same workspace or in two or more different workspaces. For example the user can be assigned a global business level role across two or more different workspaces and can be assigned a specific business level role which is different from the global business level role in one of the two or more different workspaces. In the workspaces in which the user is assigned the global business level role the user can have access to a first subset of content while in the workspace in which the user is assigned the specific business level role the user can have access to a second subset of content. Depending on any global business level role and the specific business level role the scope of the first subset can be greater than or less than the scope of the second subset. As described below with reference to the following figures multiple permissions associated with the multiple roles can be represented and persisted correctly and have the scope of a single workspace. In addition user interface patterns that support the user interaction for each of the multiple roles are defined.

The computer system can be for example a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer a smartphone and the like. The computer system can implement the techniques described in this disclosure as computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium and executable by data processing apparatus . The computer system can be connected to the EWS server through one or more wired or wireless networks for example the Internet.

In some implementations the computer system can determine that a first role has been assigned to a user of a computer workspace that provides content. This role is applicable inside the context of this workspace. The workspace can include multiple users. Because of the role assignment to each user at least a portion of the content provided by the workspace is accessible to each user. The first role assigned to the user can define a first subset of the content that is accessible by the user. For example the computer workspace can be a contextual workspace to store and manage data associated with a patient by one or more doctors one or more health care service providers and the like. In this workspace the patient can occupy a central role with which the roles assigned to the one or more doctors and the one or more health care service providers interact. The workspace can provide a subset of content to the patient each doctor and each health care service provider. The subset of content accessible to the patient may not be accessible by each doctor and each health care service provider. Similarly the subset of content accessible to a health care service provider may not be accessible by the doctor and vice versa. Also the subset of content accessible by one doctor may not be accessible to another doctor for example without the patient s consent.

The computer system can determine that a second role has been added to the user. The second role can be different from the first role. For example using the computer system a user in the workspace with permission levels to add a new role e.g. a Manager or Owner can add the second role. Alternatively the user with permission levels to add a new role can create a new role for the user in the workspace of a computer system interconnected with the computer system such as a backend computer system. The creation of the new role in the workspace of the backend computer system can result in an addition of the role to the workspace of the computer system . In some implementations the second role assigned to the user can be added in a workspace that is different from the workspace in which the first role has been assigned to the user. In some implementations the second role assigned to the user can be added can be the same as the workspace in which the first role has been assigned to the user.

As described above the first role and the second role can be different from each other. Consequently a scope of content accessible to the user in the first role can be different from a scope of content accessible to the user in the second role. Similarly to the first subset of content defined as being accessible to the user in the first role the second role assigned to the user can define a second subset of the content that is accessible by the user. The second subset can include content that is different from the first subset or can overlap at least partially with the first subset. The user can access the workspace under either the first role or the second role. When the user accesses the computer workspace the computer system can determine a role that is associated with the user. The computer system can provide a subset of the content to the user in response to determining the role. If the user has accessed a workspace in which the user is assigned only the first role for example a Doctor role then the computer system can provide only the first subset. Conversely if the user has accessed a different workspace in which the user is assigned only the second role for example a Patient role then the computer system can provide only the second subset. If on the other hand the user has accessed a workspace in which the user is assigned both the first role i.e. the Doctor role and the second role i.e. the Patient role then the computer system can provide both the first subset and the second subset.

One of the users who can access all the workspaces can be the doctor who provides medical services to multiple clients. To the doctor the computer system can assign a first role of Doctor which allows the doctor to manage for example view add delete change the medical information of the respective clients. The doctor can be the owner or the manager or both of all the workspaces. Other users who can access the workspaces can include the multiple patients each of whom can access a respective workspace. To each of the patients the computer system can assign a second role of Patient which allows each client to manage for example view add delete change only the respective user s workspace for example information inside the workspace that was created to track the patient s medical information.

The doctor may manage her own medical information. To do so the doctor can add for example create a new workspace to the existing workspaces and assign a role of Patient to herself in the scope of the added workspace. In one example situation the computer system can determine that in the added workspace the Patient role has been added to the doctor. In the Patient role the doctor may be able to access some content provided by the workspace that the doctor cannot access in the other workspaces in the Doctor role. After having added the second role the doctor can access the system that provides the multiple workspaces either in the Doctor role or in the Patient role. As the doctor she can access any of the workspaces in which she provides medical services to patients and as a patient she can access only the workspace in which she has been associated the Patient role.

In another example situation the computer system can determine that in the added workspace both the Patient role and the Doctor role has been added to the doctor. In such situations the doctor can access any of the workspaces as the doctor and the added workspace as both the doctor and the patient. In some implementations the computer system can determine the role that is associated with the doctor when the doctor accesses one of the multiple workspaces. In the accessed workspace if the role is only the Doctor role then the computer system can provide a subset of the content i.e. data and computer implemented applications that only a user in the Doctor role can access. Conversely in the accessed workspace if the role is the Patient role then the computer system can provide a different subset of the content i.e. data and computer implemented applications that only a user in the Patient role can access. In the accessed workspace if the role is both the Doctor role and the Patient role then the computer system can provide a subset of the content that is accessible to a user in both the Doctor role and the Patient role.

In some implementations the business role for each user in the context of a workspace can be marked and persisted i.e. stored for example in a table. In the example table shown in the first row includes a user X in cell who has been assigned Workspace ID as a workspace identifier in cell . The relationship between the user X and the workspace can be tagged with a string of characters that represents user X s role in the workspace. For example user X s role in the workspace has been tagged with a free style text Doctor and stored in cell of the first row. The second row includes a user Y in cell who has been assigned Workspace ID in cell . The relationship between the user X and the workspace has been tagged by two strings of characters in cell namely Doctor and Patient. The third row includes a user Z in cell who has been assigned Workspace ID in cell . The relationship between the user Z and the workspace has been tagged by the free style text Patient in cell .

The relationships described with reference to the table shown in can be persisted in one or more of several locations. As shown in the relationships can be persisted in the workspace as part of the workspace definition. In other cases it can be persisted in an independent table inside a relational database on a computer readable storage in the computer system . Alternatively the relationships can be persisted on the EWS server for example on a computer readable storage . In some implementations the relationships can be persisted on a separate computer readable storage device that is operatively coupled to the computer system or the EWS server or both through one or more wired or wireless networks for example the Internet. In some implementations the relationships can be persisted as metadata on the user definition in the portal system as additional metadata on the user not shown using which the user accesses the workspace.

Persisting the relationships in the workspace can enable sharing the lifecycle of the workspace. When the workspace is deleted all business roles of this workspace are also deleted. Persisting the relationships on the user account user definition with which the user accesses the workspace can also enable sharing the lifecycle of the user. When the user s account is deleted all of the user s business roles are also deleted. Persisting the relationship in a user account associated with the user can increase flexibility and allow complex searches. In such persistencies an identifier is associated with the user to identify the user. Another identifier is associated with the workspace. Both identifiers are associated with the business role all three of which are then stored.

The example website is a landing page of a website hosted by the computer system for example the computer system that provides the workspaces that include content related to health care. The content can include data and applications associated with one or more care providers and one or more care receivers. Each care provider and each care receiver can have a workspace to which other care providers or care receivers may have access. A care provider can provide care to one or more care receivers and consequently can have access to each care receiver s workspace where content associated with the care receiver is stored. A care receiver can have access only to his own workspace where content associated with the care receiver and not other care receivers is stored. The example website is the landing page for a first user entitled Patient F F Lola. The first user has been assigned two roles a Care Program Receiver role and a Care Program Provider role in either the same workspace or in two or more different workspaces. In a first workspace in which the first user is associated with the Receiver role the first user has access to content associated with the first user. In a second workspace in which the first user is associated with the Provider role and George is associated with the Patient George role the first user has access to content associated with the second user. The scope of the content to which the first user has access in his role as the Receiver in the first workspace is different from the scope of the content to which the first user has access in his role as the Provider in the second workspace. Similarly to the second workspace in a third workspace in which the first user is associated with the Provider role and David is associated with the Patient F F David role the first user has access to content associated with the third user.

In the user interface the computer system can display a first selectable object for example a computer selectable button a second selectable object and a third selectable object associated with the first workspace the second workspace and the third workspace respectively. The computer system can present for example display the user interface on a display device connected to the computer system or to a client computer system that is connected to the computer system or a backend computer system connected to the computer system . The first selectable object can be associated with a first identifier for example a URL that references the first workspace where a first subset of content provided to the first user in the Care Program Receiver role. In some implementations the first user has the role of Care Program Receiver inside the first workspace only. The second selectable object can be associated with a second identifier that references the second workspace where a second subset of content which is associated with the second user and to which the first user in the Care Program Provider role has access. Thus the first user is a member of the second workspace. Similarly the third selectable object can be associated with a third identifier that references a third workspace where a third subset of content which is associated with the third user and to which the first user in the Care Program Provider role has access. The first user is a member of the third workspace as well. Additional selectable objects that correspond to additional roles can be displayed in the user interface .

When the first user accesses the user interface the first user can select a selectable object that corresponds to a workspace. The computer system can receive a selection of the workspace in the user interface . For example if the user selects the first selectable object then the computer system can determine that the role associated with the user when the user accesses the first workspace is the Care Program Receiver role only. Similarly if the user selects the second selectable object then the computer system can determine that the role associated with the user when the user accesses the second workspace is the Care Program Provider role. In a fourth workspace the first user can be assigned both the Care Program Provider role and the Care Program Receiver role. The user interface can include a fourth selectable object not shown . If the user selects the fourth selectable object then the computer system can determine that the role associated with the user with the user accesses the fourth workspace is both the Care Program Provider role and the Care Program Receiver role.

As described above each selectable object is associated with a workspace. that references a subset of content and the logged in user has a specific business role inside that workspace. In response to receiving the selection of the selectable object in the user interface the computer system can determine the respective role and display a different user interface in which the computer system can provide the subset of content associated with the role. For example if the first user selects the second selectable object then the computer system determines that the user has accessed the second workspace in a Care Program Provider role specifically for the second user entitled Patient George. In response the computer system presents i.e. displays the subset of content in the workspace that the first user has access to view in his Care Program Provider role for the second user entitled Patient George. In some implementations the computer system can present the user interface that is referenced by the identifier associated with the second selectable object .

The computer system can enable the user to switch from a role in which the user has accessed the workspace to a different role. To do so in some implementations the computer system can present a selectable object in the user interfaces that the computer system displays to the user. In the user interface the computer system can detect a selection of the object. The selection is an input to switch from the first role for example the Care Program Provider role to a second role for example the Care Program Receiver role. Alternatively or in addition the selection can be an input to switch from a first workspace in which the first user has a first role to a second workspace in which the first user has either a second role only or the first role and the second role. In response the computer system can display a different user interface that displays the second subset of the content. In some implementations the selectable object that the user selects to switch from the first role to the second role can be associated with an identifier that references the second subset of the content. When the user switches from the first workspace to the second workspace the computer system can terminate the user s access to the workspace under the first role.

In the example user interface described above the computer system presented the user with the multiple workspaces in which the user can access the computer system and received a selection of one of the workspaces from the user. In some implementations the computer system can automatically determine the workspace without user intervention. The computer system can determine the workspace based on factors including a geographical location from which the user accesses the computer system or the time of day. For example based on an Internet Protocol IP address of the computer system using which the user accesses the computer system that provides the workspaces the computer system can determine that the user is accessing the computer system from the user s home. The computer system can determine that when the user accesses the computer system from home the user is more likely to access a personal account for example in a Care Program Receiver role than a professional account for example in a Care Program Provider role. In response the computer system can automatically grant the user access to the workspace that includes the subset of the content associated with the Care Program Receiver role. In another example if the computer system determines that the user s geographical location is the user s office and the time of day is early afternoon on a weekday then the computer system can determine that the user is more likely to access the professional account. In response the computer system can automatically grant the user access to the workspace that includes the subset of the content associated with the Care Program Provider role. In some implementations the computer system can request the user to specify a default workspace which the user will access when accessing the computer system that provides the workspaces. The computer system can grant the user access to the workspace that includes the subset of content associated with the default role when the user accesses the workspace

At the first subset of the content and the second subset of the content can be provided in response to determining the access of the first computer workspace. At input to switch access from the first computer workspace to a second computer workspace that is different from the first computer workspace can be received. The user is assigned only the second role in the second computer workspace. At the second subset of the content can be provided and access to the first subset of the content can be prohibited in response to receiving the input to switch the access from the first computer workspace to the second computer workspace.

In general the EWS server is a server that stores a content provider manager a role assignment engine a search engine and a rule engine where at least a portion of the content provider manager the role assignment engine the search engine or the rule engine or combinations of them is executed using requests or responses or both sent from or to the computer system . In some implementations the EWS server may store multiple content provider managers rule assignment engines search engines or rule engines or combinations of them . In some implementations the EWS server may be a dedicated server meant to store and execute only a single content provider manager role assignment engine search engine or rule engine or combinations of them . In some implementations the EWS server may comprise a web server where content provider manager the role assignment engine the search engine or the rule engine or combinations of them represents one or more web based applications accessed and executed by the computer system or directly at the EWS server to perform the programmed tasks or operations of the content provider manager the role assignment engine the search engine or the rule engine or combinations of them . The EWS server can include an application programming interface API or a service layer or both through which the various components of the EWS server can interface with each other.

The EWS server includes an interface for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment i.e. the interconnected computer systems . Generally the interface comprises logic encoded in software or hardware or both in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with one or more wired or wireless networks such as the Internet. The EWS server includes a processor which executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the EWS server . Specifically the processor executes the functionality required to receive and respond to requests from the computer system one or more of the interconnected computer systems and the role assignment engine . The EWS server also includes a memory that holds data for the EWS server . In some implementations the memory includes an EWS an EWS page a module module content a module template a module gallery a rule and a user property .

The EWS is a central repository of knowledge. EWS generation may be performed either at design time or runtime and may be based upon for example EWS properties an EWS owner profile EWS viewer properties other suitable values or combinations thereof. For example the EWS owner profile may include age address medical profile etc. The EWS viewer profile may include role relation to the EWS owner location etc. In some implementations the EWS is associated with a context. For example the EWS may be associated with a specific user for example a particular patient and a support group associated with the patient for example the patient s doctor friends and family etc. The EWS may be either personal or shared. The personal EWS is a private area where a single user can maintain personal content on a particular EWS page not accessible by other EWS users. A shared EWS is an area where multiple EWS users for example the support group or friends and family of the heart patient can access shared EWS pages. A shared EWS is assigned a role permission policy and each EWS user may be provided a role and associated permission in the shared EWS. Roles may be for example workspace owner workspace manager workspace member or combinations of them. Associated permissions may be for example the ability to create rename or delete EWS pages and view or update particular content associated with EWS pages or specific modules associated with the EWS pages. In some implementations EWS users may have multiple permission levels roles. In some implementations users can also customize the EWS with different layouts branding and themes. In some implementations an EWS instance is created from a reusable EWS template. An EWS template has the same or similar structure as an EWS and is an EWS associated with a template tag but not an actual EWS instance. If a new instance of an EWS is created based on an EWS template the EWS template is copied and used as the base for the EWS instance.

An enterprise portal EP also known as an enterprise information portal EIP or a corporate portal is a framework for integrating information people and processes across organizational boundaries. An EP can provide a secure unified access point for example in the form of a web based user interface. The EP can be designed to aggregate and personalize information through application specific portals. The EP can be a de centralized content contribution and content management system which maintains updated information almost all the time. Using a web browser an enterprise portal user can begin work after having been authenticated in the EP. In this manner the EP can offer a single point of access to information enterprise applications and services both inside and outside an organization. EPs can present information from diverse sources in a unified and structured way and provide additional services such as dashboards an internal search engine e mail news navigation tools and various other features. EPs can be used by enterprises for providing their employees customers and possibly additional users with a consistent look and feel and access control and procedures for multiple applications which otherwise would have been separate entities altogether.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this disclosure can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this disclosure and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this disclosure can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal for example a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium for example the computer readable medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate physical and or non transitory components or media for example multiple CDs disks or other storage devices .

In some implementations the operations described in this disclosure can be implemented as a hosted service provided on a server in a cloud computing network. For example the computer readable storage media can be logically grouped and accessible within a cloud computing network. Servers within the cloud computing network can include a cloud computing platform for providing cloud based services. The terms cloud cloud computing and cloud based may be used interchangeably as appropriate without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Cloud based services can be hosted services that are provided by servers and delivered across a network to a client platform to enhance supplement or replace applications executed locally on a client computer. The system can use cloud based services to quickly receive software upgrades applications and other resources that would otherwise require a lengthy period of time before the resources can be delivered to the system.

The operations described in this disclosure can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry for example an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question for example code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data for example one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files for example files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this disclosure can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry for example an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data for example magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device for example a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device for example a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices for example EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks for example internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this disclosure can be implemented on a computer having a display device for example a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard a pointing device for example a mouse or a trackball or a microphone and speaker or combinations of them by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback for example visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this disclosure can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component for example as a data server or that includes a middleware component for example an application server or that includes a front end component for example a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this disclosure or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication for example a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network for example the Internet and peer to peer networks for example ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some implementations a server transmits data for example an HTML page to a client device for example for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device for example a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

While this disclosure contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any implementations or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular implementations. Certain features that are described in this disclosure in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

