---

title: Polymer microcavity and microchannel device and array fabrication method
abstract: A method of forming a microplasma device places a curable polymer material between a mold having a negative volume impression of microcavities and/or microchannels and a substrate. The polymer is cured and then the mold is separated from the solid polymer. The method can form a microplasma device that includes a substrate and either or both of a microchannel or microcavity defined in a polymer layer supported by the substrate. Electrodes arranged with respect to the polymer material can excite plasma in a discharge medium contained in the microchannel or the microcavity or both. A flexible mold is preferably used to fabricate transparent polymer microcavities onto rigid substrates. A rigid mold is preferably used to fabricate transparent polymer microcavities onto flexible substrates. Having one of the mold and the substrate flexible and the other rigid aids in the separation of the mold from the cured polymer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08864542&OS=08864542&RS=08864542
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08864542
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130412
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from prior co pending application Ser. No. 11 698 264 which was filed on Jan. 23 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 497 631 issued on Jul. 30 2013 which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from provisional application Ser. No. 60 761 316 filed Jan. 23 2006.

This invention was made with government support under contract number F49620 03 1 0391 awarded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR . The government has certain rights in this application.

The present invention relates to microcavity plasma devices also known as microdischarge or microplasma devices.

Microcavity plasma devices have been developed over the past decade for a wide variety of applications. An exemplary application for an array of microplasmas is in the area of displays. Since single cylindrical microplasma devices for example with a characteristic dimension d as small as 10 m have been demonstrated devices or groups of devices offer a spatial resolution that is desirable for a pixel in a display. In addition the efficiency for generating with a microcavity plasma device the ultraviolet light at the heart of the plasma display panel PDP significantly exceeds that of the discharge structure currently used in plasma televisions.

Early microplasma devices were driven by direct current DC voltages and exhibited short lifetimes for several reasons including sputtering damage to the metal electrodes. Improvements in device design and fabrication have extended lifetimes significantly but minimizing the cost of materials and the manufacture of large arrays continue to be key considerations. Also more recently developed microplasma devices excited by a time varying voltage are preferable when lifetime is of primary concern.

Microcavity plasma devices have been made in a variety of materials including molybdenum ceramics silicon and polymer metal film structures. Microcavities have been made by a variety of techniques including etching mechanical drilling and laser ablation. Each of these fabrication techniques has one or more drawbacks. For example with laser ablation and mechanical drilling the size of the microcavity is typically limited to about 50 m with smaller sizes more difficult to make. Additionally the cross sections of microcavities formed by ablation and drilling methods are not completely uniform. In the case of drilling mechanical wear of drill bits and mechanical tolerances prevent the achievement of accurate dimensional control and repeatability. Also the serial nature of the cavity drilling procedure makes the time and cost of processing prohibitive for the production of large arrays of microcavity plasma devices. Another drawback is that the techniques used for microcavity formation are not readily adaptable to produce other features e.g. channels.

Research by the present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has pioneered and advanced the state of microcavity plasma devices. This work has resulted in practical devices with one or more important features and structures. Most of these devices are able to operate continuously with power loadings of tens of kW cmto beyond 100 kW cm. One such device that has been realized is a multi segment linear array of microplasmas designed for pumping optical amplifiers and lasers. Also the ability to interface a gas or vapor phase plasma with the electron hole plasma in a semiconductor has been demonstrated. Fabrication processes developed largely by the semiconductor and microelectromechanical systems MEMs communities have been adopted for fabricating many of these microcavity plasma devices.

Use of silicon integrated circuit fabrication methods has further reduced the size and cost of microcavity plasma devices and arrays. Because of the batch nature of micromachining not only are the performance characteristics of the devices improved but the cost of fabricating large arrays is also reduced. The ability to fabricate large arrays with precise tolerances and high density makes these devices attractive for display applications. While representing an important step in the development of microdischarge devices micromachined fabrication approaches also have limitations. One limitation is that the size of an individual array is limited to the size of the silicon substrate. Second the cost of a device is determined not only by the substrate cost but also by the cost of performing an expensive series of photolithographic thin film deposition and etching steps on each wafer in the batch. Finally although silicon wafers are a convenient substrate due to the wide range of processing options that are available silicon is an optically opaque material and is therefore not suitable for applications such as heads up displays or applications requiring lateral propagation or coupling of visible light between microcavity plasma devices in an array.

This research by present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has resulted in exemplary practical devices. For example semiconductor fabrication processes have been adopted to demonstrate densely packed arrays of microplasma devices exhibiting uniform emission characteristics. Arrays fabricated in silicon comprise as many as 250 000 microplasma devices in an active area of 25 cm each device in the array having an emitting aperture of typically 50 m 50 m. It has been demonstrated that such arrays can be used to excite phosphors in a manner analogous to plasma display panels but with values of the luminous efficacy that are not presently achievable with conventional plasma display panels. Another important device is a microcavity plasma photodetector that exhibits high sensitivity. Phase locking of microplasmas dispersed in an array has also been demonstrated.

The following U.S. patents and patent applications describe microcavity plasma devices resulting from these research efforts. Published Applications 20050148270 Microdischarge devices and arrays 20040160162 Microdischarge devices and arrays 20040100194 Microdischarge photodetectors 20030132693 Microdischarge devices and arrays having tapered microcavities U.S. Pat. No. 6 867 548 Microdischarge devices and arrays U.S. Pat. No. 6 828 730 Microdischarge photodetectors U.S. Pat. No. 6 815 891 Method and apparatus for exciting a microdischarge U.S. Pat. No. 6 695 664 Microdischarge devices and arrays U.S. Pat. No. 6 563 257 Multilayer ceramic microdischarge device U.S. Pat. No. 6 541 915 High pressure arc lamp assisted start up device and method U.S. Pat. No. 6 194 833 Microdischarge lamp and array U.S. Pat. No. 6 139 384 Microdischarge lamp formation process and U.S. Pat. No. 6 016 027 Microdischarge lamp.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 541 915 discloses arrays of microcavity plasma devices in which the individual devices are mounted in an assembly that is machined from materials including ceramics. Metallic electrodes are exposed to the plasma medium which is generated within a microcavity and between the electrodes. U.S. Pat. No. 6 194 833 also discloses arrays of microcavity plasma devices including arrays for which the substrate is ceramic and a silicon or metal film is formed on it. Electrodes disposed at the top and bottom of microcavities contact the discharge medium. U.S. Published Patent Application 20030230983 discloses microcavity plasmas produced in low temperature ceramic structures. The stacked ceramic layers are arranged and micromachined so as to form cavities and intervening conductor layers excite the plasma medium. U.S. Published Patent Application 20020036461 discloses hollow cathode discharge devices in which electrodes contact the plasma discharge medium.

Microcavity plasma devices have also been fabricated in glass that can be etched by photolithography techniques. See e.g. Kim S. O. and J. G. Eden IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. 17 1543 2005 . As with silicon fabrications the array size is limited to the size of the substrate and the surface area that can be contiguously patterned by photolithography. Array cost is dominated by the cost of performing multiple photolithography steps.

The development of microcavity plasma devices continues with an emphasis on the display market and the biomedical applications market. The ultimate utility of microcavity plasma devices in displays will hinge on several critical factors including efficacy discussed earlier lifetime and addressability. Addressability in particular is vital in most display applications. For example for a group of microcavity discharges to comprise a pixel each microplasma device must be individually addressable.

Current flat panel display solutions suffer from a number of drawbacks. Flat panel display technologies that have been widely adopted include liquid crystal displays LCDs and plasma display panels PDPs . These technologies have been widely adopted for large screen formats such as televisions. LCDs are also used in computer displays. Compact electronic devices such as personal digital assistants PDA also benefit from high contrast bright high resolution displays.

Plasma display panels are in widespread use as high definition displays. While the basic technology for PDPs dates back to the 1960s the materials design and manufacturing methods developed for plasma displays have evolved over the past two decades to enable the high resolution long lifetime and high brightness microplasma arrays for PDPs available today. Individual PDP cells three cells to a pixel red blue green tend to have characteristic dimensions d 300 m and pd pressure electrode separation scaling design rules result in total gas pressures of nominally 400 500 Torr. Consequently PDPs must be sealed hermetically within an enclosure normally glass that is sufficiently robust i.e. thick to withstand atmospheric pressure and this factor is primarily responsible for the undesirably large weight of these displays.

Practical designs that would permit the use of microcavity plasma devices would likely alter the landscape of the flat panel display industry. Compared to standard flat panel display technologies microplasma devices offer the potential of smaller pixel sizes for example. Small pixel sizes correlate directly with higher spatial resolution. In addition tests have shown that microplasma devices convert electrical energy to visible light at a higher efficiency than that available with conventional pixel structures in plasma display panels.

A method of forming a microplasma device places a curable polymer material between a mold having a negative volume impression of microcavities and or microchannels and a substrate. The polymer is cured and then the mold is separated from the solid polymer. The method can form a microplasma device that includes a substrate and either or both of a microchannel or microcavity defined in a polymer layer supported by the substrate. Electrodes arranged with respect to the polymer material can excite plasma in a discharge medium contained in the microchannel or the microcavity or both. A flexible mold is preferably used to fabricate transparent polymer microcavities onto rigid substrates. A rigid mold is preferably used to fabricate transparent polymer microcavities onto flexible substrates. Having one of the mold and the substrate flexible and the other rigid aids in the separation of the mold from the cured polymer.

A preferred fabrication method of the invention molds microcavities into a polymer material. Preferably the polymer material is transparent. The mold is a negative volume profile of the microcavity shape which can be for example cylindrical pyramidal truncated conical in cross section or any other shape that can have its negative volume profile formed in the mold. A flexible mold is preferably used to fabricate transparent polymer microcavities onto rigid substrates. A rigid mold is preferably used to fabricate transparent polymer microcavities onto flexible substrates. Having one of the mold and the substrate flexible and the other rigid aids in the separation of the mold from the cured polymer.

In an example embodiment a mold is used to replicate microcavities in a liquid polymer material that can be cured into the solid state by exposure to UV light. The microcavity formation process is simple rapid and highly accurate. Further the UV curable polymer replication procedure is capable of producing deep cavities without the use of large forces or high temperatures such as those required with stamping approaches. Producing microcavities of small transverse dimensions but large aspect ratio is also straightforward and inexpensive.

Method of the invention can be used to produce microcavity plasma device arrays of different embodiments of the invention that provide polymer microcavities that are readily mass fabricated can be transparent and can be rigid or flexible. A preferred embodiment of the invention is a polymer microcavity plasma array formed on a substrate. In a preferred embodiment the polymer is a transparent polymer having transparency in a particular range of interest e.g. such as infrared IR visible ultraviolet UV or a range extending to portions of the IR visible and UV ranges. In preferred embodiments the transparent polymer is transparent in at least a portion of the visible range. The substrate and electrodes can also be transparent in preferred embodiments. In preferred embodiments transparent polymer microcavities are formed in a flexible polymer material. In other preferred embodiments the transparent polymer microcavities are formed in a rigid polymer material. Arrays of the invention can be very large format as arrays of the invention can be produced by a highly accurate molding process that permits precision replication of microcavities.

Additionally arrays of the invention can have high aspect ratio microcavities and channels. Microchannels in embodiments of the invention can connect microcavities and can be formed into patterns having a wide variety of shapes e.g. straight zig zig and other shapes. Very long high aspect ratio channels can be formed e.g. a one meter channel that is 20 m wide.

Another embodiment of the invention is a microchannel plasma device with long high aspect ratio optical channels. In a preferred embodiment an optical microchannel plasma device has thin polymer walls separating microchannels. In a preferred embodiment the polymer walls are transparent. The device has application for example in laser spectroscopy since the channels can be probed with a laser beam while a sample e.g. chemical products from a plasma reactor is within the channel.

Microcavity plasma device arrays of different embodiments of the invention provide polymer microcavities that can be transparent and that can be rigid or flexible. A preferred embodiment of the invention is a polymer microcavity plasma array formed on a substrate. In a particular preferred embodiment the polymer material is transparent in the visible range and in the near UV range. The substrate and electrodes can also be transparent in preferred embodiments. In preferred embodiments the transparent polymer microcavities are formed in a flexible polymer material. In other preferred embodiments the transparent polymer microcavities are formed in a rigid polymer material. Arrays of the invention can be very large format as arrays of the invention can be produced by a highly accurate molding process that permits precision replication of microcavities.

Microcavity plasma devices of the invention and a method of fabrication of such devices of the invention enable low cost manufacturing of large arrays of microcavity plasma devices over large surface areas tens to thousands of square centimeters and larger on either rigid or flexible substrates. A preferred fabrication method replicates the microcavity shape into a polymer material e.g. a transparent polymer through the use of a molding process. In an exemplary embodiment the mold is a negative volume profile of the desired microcavity shape that is either flexible for molding of microcavities upon rigid substrates or rigid for molding of microcavities upon flexible substrates . In a preferred embodiment the mold shape is replicated into a liquid polymer material that can be cured into a solid by exposure to UV light. By the preferred process the cavity formation process is simple rapid and highly accurate. Further the UV curable polymer replication procedure is capable of producing deep cavities without the use of large forces or high temperatures such as those required with stamping approaches. Producing microcavities of small transverse dimensions but large aspect ratio is also straightforward and inexpensive. Additionally large aspect ratio microchannel plasma devices can be produced by preferred methods of the invention.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention.

The bottom electrode can be formed for example by a suitable deposition technique and can be patterned in such as way as to enable excitation of individual microcavity plasma devices within the array . The bottom electrode can also be a continuous or patterned conductive layer that provides a common electrode for one or more groups of microcavity plasma devices or all of the microcavity plasma devices in the array .

In preferred transparent polymer microcavity plasma device arrays the bottom electrode is transparent in the visible range. For example the substrate can be coated with a thin film of transparent conducting material such as Indium Tin Oxide ITO . Such a transparent conducting material can form the bottom electrode of the microcavity plasma device array .

A plurality of microcavities are formed in a polymer layer which is preferably an epoxy layer as the thermosetting properties of epoxy are useful in preferred methods of formation of the microcavities and of microcavity arrays. A dielectric coating preferably is used to protect and insulate the inner surfaces of the microcavities from plasma produced within the microcavities . Additionally the dielectric coating provides a barrier that slows or blocks outgassing vapors from the polymer layer from reaching the microcavities . The dielectric coating can be a thin film for example a thin film of titanium dioxide TiO. Other suitable dielectrics include for example silicon oxide tantalum oxide magnesium oxide and silicon nitride.

The microcavities are sealed by another polymer substrate under pressure with a suitable discharge gas or gas mixture in which plasma can be excited. The substrate carries an upper electrode and is bonded to the polymer layer via a thin adhesive such as a thin layer of epoxy. In preferred embodiments the material properties and or thicknesses of the substrates and and other layers in the microcavity plasma device array are selected so that the array is both transparent and flexible.

In a preferred fabrication method shown in the microcavities are formed in the layer via a micromolding process. A mold is provided . The mold contains a negative volume of the desired microcavity shape which can be for example cylindrical or pyramidal. A mold can be fabricated by performing conventional photolithography upon a substrate such as silicon where the mold shape can be etched into the silicon by material removal processes such as wet chemical etching reactive ion etching ion milling or inductively coupled plasma etching. In general the mold can be fabricated from any durable material additional examples of which include glass ceramic or metal.

A large number of molds referred to as daughters can be produced by using a master for creation which is useful to create identical molds for high volume manufacturing as repeated use of a mold can lead to wear of the template. A master used to create daughter molds has a positive volume image of the desired microcavity plasma device array shape.

A substrate is provided such as the polymers discussed above and a layer of liquid curable polymer material is compressed between the substrate and the mold template. The polymer is then cured . The method of curing will depend upon the type of polymer of course and may involve heat time or exposure to actinic radiation typically UV radiation.

In a preferred embodiment method of fabrication for UV transparent microcavity plasma device arrays the polymer is a liquid UV curable polymer which is allowed to flow into the mold when it is compressed between the substrate and the mold template and is subsequently exposed to high intensity UV illumination that causes the liquid material to cure into a solid. The viscosity of the liquid UV curable polymer is selected to enable rapid filling of the mold shape without the application of substantial force between the mold and the substrate. The UV curing process can take place at room temperature and can be completed in 10 90 seconds depending on the polymer material the curing initiation chemical and the desired degree of curing.

The substrate provided in step can carry a patterned or non patterned electrode such as discussed with respect to the example embodiment microcavity plasma device array in . Then after the step of curing the result is that the portion of the layer between the bottom of the microcavities and the bottom electrode is a thin barrier of cured polymer. The thickness of the portion of the layer that is a barrier between the electrode and the microcavities can be accurately controlled by the liquid polymer viscosity by the temperature of the replication process and by the pressure applied between the substrate and the mold during replication. The barrier portion of the layer helps to isolate and protect the bottom electrode from exposure to the plasma and will contribute to the device capacitance.

After curing the mold and the substrate are separated in a manner such that the cured polymer preferentially adheres to the substrate. Pre treating the mold with an anti adhesion coating can aid the step of separation . For example an anti adhesion monolayer coating such as Repel Silane Amersham Biosciences can be formed on the mold template. An anti adhesion coating can also be formed for example by evaporation of a metal thin film such as gold silver or nickel onto the mold surfaces. Mold separation can also be facilitated if either the mold or the substrate is mechanically flexible so that the mold and substrate may be peeled away from each other.

Therefore for replication of polymer microcavities upon rigid substrates such as glass a flexible mold is preferably used. The flexible mold can be fabricated for example from flexible metal foil flexible elastomers such as PDMS or flexible plastic film. The molding process is capable of accurately producing features over a wide range of size scales from tens of nanometers to hundreds of microns. For fabrication upon flexible substrate materials the process may be performed in a continuous manner so that the microcavity plasma device arrays can be produced from continuous rolls of substrate film in a roll to roll configuration at rates up to several feet minute.

Following the separation the microcavities can be optionally coated with a dielectric material such as titanium dioxide silicon oxide tantalum oxide magnesium oxide or silicon nitride. As discussed above the dielectric material serves to protect the polymer cavity from exposure to the plasma which could result in gradual degradation of microdischarge performance through exposure of the polymer to energetic species such as positive or negative ions. The dielectric material can also be used reduce the rate of out gassing of volatile components within the cured polymer into the sealed cavity. Another potential function of the dielectric and MgO in particular is to provide supplemental electrons to the plasma by secondary emission. Also the dielectric material is oriented between the upper and bottom electrodes and and its thickness and dielectric constant will contribute to the overall capacitance of the device. A discharge gas or mixture is introduced into the microcavities and then the top substrate electrode is used to seal the array .

The step of sealing can be accomplished when the upper substrate that carries the electrode is attached to the polymer microcavity layer . The attachment can be accomplished for example with a thin film of epoxy adhesive around the circumference of the array as illustrated in exertion of some pressure and permitting the adhesive to cure. Alternative attachment methods include laser welding ultrasonic welding or clamping by the application of external force.

The bonding or other attachment can be accomplished such that the microcavities are isolated from one another as illustrated in the array of FIG. where the adhesive layer forms bonds around the circumference of the array and seals regions between the microcavities . Alternatively the upper substrate that carries the upper electrode can be intentionally separated by a short distance from the polymer microcavity layer which allows gas to flow freely between the microcavities or between groups of microcavities as in . Such an arrangement also increases the volume for discharge medium. This can be accomplished with patterns of adhesive for example. For example adhesive can be patterned only around an outer circumference of the polymer microcavity layer so that when bonded and sealed as illustrated in the short distance of separation is maintained between the electrode and the polymer microcavity layer and the gas gas mixture can flow freely between all of the microcavities. As another example a pattern of adhesive can be patterned around the circumference and between groups of microcavities in the polymer microcavity layer so that gas flow is possible within groups of microcavities as illustrated in . In other cases additional support structures that separately support the substrate and the substrate to maintain the short distance of separation between the upper electrode and the polymer microcavity layer can be used.

In the electrodes are patterned and addressable and an additional layer e.g. glass polymer transparent ceramic materials is used to permit or restrict flow between individual ones or groups of microcavities . The addressable electrodes for example are patterned to permit application of different voltages to different ones groups of microcavities which can contain the same or different gas species.

As illustrated in another way to enable gas flow between groups of microcavities is with the use of microchannels which can be molded into the polymer layer by the same fabrication methods discussed above. In lines of microchannels connect groups of microcavities . Gas flow is possible between connected groups of microcavities . Also the microchannels can be designed to allow gas or gas mixtures to be introduced into the polymer microcavity plasma device array from an external source and multiple channels can be further configured to allow different gases or gas mixtures to be introduced separately to different regions of the polymer microcavity plasma device array.

The depth of the microchannels can be either deeper less deep or the same depth as the microcavities themselves. The microchannels themselves can function as microplasma channels emitting light in the regions between cavities where the turn on voltage of the microchannel can be designed to occur at a voltage different from that required for the microcavities so that different regions of the microchannel array can be activated selectively. Through the introduction of different gases into multiple regions of the microcavity plasma device array sections of the array can emit light of different wavelengths. Through the mixture of emitted wavelengths from different regions of the array a wide palette of visible emitted colors or ultraviolet radiation if desired can be produced where the observed color can be controlled through adjustment of the brightness from two or more microcavity plasma devices. Furthermore one or more phosphors can be coated within all or selected ones groups of the microcavities to yield various colors of emitted light.

Because the emitted light spectrum is dependent upon electron excitation of atoms or molecules within the plasma and because atoms and molecules each have a characteristic emission spectrum that is unique to the atomic and or molecular components that are present a gas sample that is introduced to the microcavity plasma device via a channel connected to an external gas source can be analyzed through measurement of the emitted spectrum. Further the plasma generated in the microcavity plasma device can be subsequently directed by the microchannels to the inlet of a mass spectrometer MS for detection of molecular fragments and elemental analysis.

Although this spectrometry method has previously been used with plasmas generated by other techniques the present devices enable plasma generation with a compact inexpensive disposable device that is capable of generating multiple simultaneous plasmas from many individual gas flow streams operating at atmospheric pressure. The latter characteristic operation at atmospheric pressure is advantageous because a vacuum system which can be both expensive and bulky is not necessary.

Experimental devices were formed. The cavity depth of the microcavities was 76 m. Rows of cavities were connected with 20 m wide microchannels in the pattern shown in . The microchannels and microcavities were filled with Ne gas at a pressure of 600 700 Torr. A plasma turn on voltage of 900 V 318 V RMS was measured with an operating voltage of 560 V. The plasma within the gas channels is initiated at a higher voltage than the plasma with the microcavities themselves. I V characteristics for a 20 20 cmarray of 90 110 mcross section microcavity plasma devices are shown in for Ne pressures between 400 and 700 Torr. The data in were obtained by driving the array with a sinusoidal voltage at a frequency of 20 kHz. The turn on or ignition voltages range from 680 V 240 V RMS to 800 V 283 V RMS . Regardless of the pressure the slope of the characteristic is positive. This means that the array can be operated without the need for ballast a substantial advantage for commercial applications.

Another preferred embodiment microchannel plasma device is illustrated in . The device can have the electrode and substrate arrangements of and but plasma is excited in a microchannel that has the shape of a square spiral. The square spiral microcavity and other patterns can be molded in the polymer layer in the same manner discussed with respect to the preferred fabrication method of . An experimental device was formed having a microchannel in the shape of the square spiral of . The microchannel was 100 m in width and was operated in Ne at 500 Torr. The entire square spiral produced a display. In addition to square spirals round spirals have been fabricated. Generally the molding of polymer microcavities and microchannels permits small feature sizes and precise relative positioning of features.

Preferred fabrication methods of the invention also permit high volume manufacturing. For example microcavities and connecting microchannels can be formed by the mold replication method which allow for large arrays to be produced by roll to roll processing for example. Consequently large arrays can be produced inexpensively.

There are many applications for transparent microcavity plasma device arrays and microchannel plasma devices of the invention. In addition to improving plasma display panels and other display technology in general and providing for the applications discussed in the background completely transparent devices of the invention have wider applicability. For example flexible transparent displays can be of value for heads up displays in automobiles and in retail applications. Lightweight video displays are another application because the preferred molding process allows for pixels of much smaller size than those reported in the example prototypes discussed above to be fabricated.

Another exemplary application is to chemical microreactors and optical diagnostics. is a schematic diagram of a simple microreactor system in which one or more gases or vapors are introduced to a microplasma device array of the invention denoted as reactor A. The initiation of a microplasma within reactor A effects a desired chemical reaction and the chemical product s can be transported to a second microplasma device array reactor B for further processing in which an additional gas GAS D interacts with the products of reactor A. It is clear that this process can be continued as desired and as many or few gases introduced to each reactor as desired. Furthermore the small size of the connecting channels that can be readily fabricated make such structures ideal for optical diagnostics of the chemical products. The device array of for example can have connecting channels with a cross sectional dimension of 20 m which is approaching the diameter of single mode waveguides in the visible. Therefore the product stream emerging from reactor A in for example can be probed by laser spectroscopy in a channel as shown. The laser beam is introduced from the left and interacts with the product stream. One has the option of producing a plasma in addition to that in reactor A in the optical channel or not. The interaction of the laser radiation more than one incident wavelength may also be used with the product stream produces an optical signal such as that generated by Raman scattering from which one can determine the products from reactor A and the efficiency of the chemical reactions. The optical channel can be fabricated such that a thin polymer wall separates the optical channel containing the products of reactor A from the channel through which the laser probe beam propagates through the microplasma array.

Another exemplary application is in cell sorting or flow cytometry is shown in . Parallel channels fabricated by the processes described earlier as shown in for example with or without microcavities can be configured to operate such that every other microchannel row contains a plasma producing light of a desired wavelength. The substrate is chosen such that the light produced in the plasma microchannels is transmitted through a thin region of substrate material and enters a flow channel disposed between or in close proximity to the plasma channels . Through this flow channel cells flow in a liquid stream. The cells may be tagged with a chromophore such that light from the plasma channels results in the emission of fluorescence from the cells. The wavelength or range of wavelengths emitted provide information as to the nature of the cell.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

