---

title: Systems and methods for advanced sanitary sewer infrastructure management
abstract: Systems and methods for managing a sanitary sewer infrastructure. In an embodiment, a plurality of representations of infrastructure assets are re-projected from a plane coordinate system into a geospatial coordinate system, such that each of the re-projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets is associated with a geospatial coordinate. Each of the re-projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets and its associated geospatial coordinate is stored in one or more databases. Subsequently, geospatial coordinates, collected in the field, may be received from one or more user devices, wherein each geospatial coordinate corresponds to a geospatial location of an infrastructure asset. A stored geospatial coordinate associated with one or more of the stored re-projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets may then be adjusted based on the received geospatial coordinates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081917&OS=09081917&RS=09081917
owner: UNITED STATES INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT COMPANY
number: 09081917
owner_city: Santa Barbara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
The invention is generally directed to infrastructure management and more particularly to advanced management of a sewer infrastructure.

Good water infrastructure management is critical for communities all over the world not only for quality of life reasons but also for public health reasons. When discussing water infrastructure management the topic is typically broken down into its three components what engineers refer to as the three waters drinking water storm water and sanitary sewer water also known as waste water .

There are several key issues with sanitary sewer infrastructure management with which developed countries are currently grappling. Primary among them is aging of the infrastructure itself. Aging may crack pipes or the joints between the pipes damage manhole structures along streets or lead to a range of other problems. It is not unusual in major cities for a large percentage or even a majority of sewer pipes to be in excess of sixty years old. Before 1950 sewer line pipe and joint materials were not as effective as those used today. Many older pipes and joints are simply failing. In addition up until the 1970s many communities in the United States routinely linked their storm water systems and sewer systems together. This is an engineering practice that is now clearly discredited due to its direct relationship in creating now prohibited Sanitary Sewer Overflows SSOs during rainstorms. from a presentation by Mark Wade at the 2005 North American Society for Trenchless Technology NASTT Conference details the range of problems in aging public sewage infrastructure that can lead to infiltration and inflow of rainwater during storms into what should be a closed sewage system.

Waste water treatment plants and the sewage pipes that feed into them are designed to take a pre calculated volume of raw sewage from households and businesses for multiple levels of treatment prior to any effluent discharge in order to ensure effective elimination of pathogens etc. However during rainstorms breaks in sewer pipes cracks in joints and especially the linking of storm water and sewer systems allow storm water to mix in with the raw sewage leading in some cases to multiples of the normal underlying sewage volume. When there is a surge of flow during storm events due to the mingling of storm water with the sewage the waste water treatment plant spends far more on electricity and chemicals to treat the increased flow. Money is wasted on treating storm water that simply should not be mixed in with the sewage. It is well documented that larger waste water treatment plants can actually spend millions of dollars per year on the chemicals needed to treat these storm related surges of flow.

Once the increased flow of sewage effluent during storms surpasses the design capacity of the waste water treatment plant either partially treated or totally untreated sewage is dumped into nearby river bays or oceans. These are called SSO events. In 2007 some thirty five years after the passage of the Clean Water Act it was estimated that some eight hundred fifty billion gallons of raw sewage were still being dumped into U.S. waterways due to SSOs. It is also estimated that over thirty percent of American rivers and estuaries had one or more impairments to usage in 2007 due to the presence of raw sewage from SSOs. Some large river systems in the U.S. are impaired by raw sewage overflows over twenty five percent of every year.

In addition to overwhelming the waste water treatment plants and causing SSOs the increased sewage flow during storms may also overwhelm the local pipes themselves. This can result in sewage backups into nearby residents or businesses basements as well as manholes that blow off and allow raw sewage to run across city streets and yards. This increase of flow into sewers during rain storms is known as the Infiltration and Inflow I I problem because it is due to the infiltration of rainwater into what should be a closed sewer system but which is not due to either cracking leaking joints and or bad design.

There are two additional related issues that can exacerbate these I I problems. The first issue is tree roots. Tree roots are very opportunistic. In their search for water and nutrients they can find and penetrate very small cracks in sewage pipes and over time make these cracks much larger allowing significant water infiltration. Tree roots may also begin to grow inside the sewer pipes themselves and over time can significantly block the design flow of the pipes. This contributes heavily to backups during storm events. The second issue that exacerbates I I problems is the buildup of fats oil and grease known as FOG on the inside of sewer pipes. FOG can act in the same way as tree roots. Over time fats oil and grease build up inside the sewer pipes especially at turns junctures etc. During a storm event these buildups block the design flow of the pipe. Both of these issues may lead directly to basement sewage backups and or to raw sewage spilling out of manholes. Note a recent article detailing a raw sewage spill due to tree root growth 

Prior to the passage of the Clean Water Act in the early 1970 s little attention was paid to I I issues in collection systems in the U.S. However since then laws have systematically been passed that emphasize the elimination of sewer system overflows and penalties for SSOs have steadily increased. Simultaneously there has been less funding available to simply build bigger treatment plants or bigger holding tanks for temporary storm surge storage. Building a much larger very costly treatment plant or holding tanks designed to handle multiples of the normal volume of sewage flow for storms that only occur a few times a year simply does not make good economic sense.

This growing regulatory pressure to minimize SSOs has led to improved technical competence inspection tools and repair methodologies to support basic sewer system maintenance and retrofitting in order to minimize and or eliminate I I issues. At the heart of good sewer maintenance practice is the ability to accurately inspect and evaluate the condition of sewer mains junctures between pipe sections manholes laterals feeding into sewer mains etc. find out where rainwater may be leaking in and find out where tree roots or FOG may be blocking flow. An accurate assessment of conditions allows for cost effective targeting of needed repairs which may range from spot grouting to relining of pipes laterals and or joints to actual replacement of entire pipe segments. A wide variety of inspection techniques exist now as do a multitude of repair techniques. There has been steady growth in these techniques over the last twenty years.

What has been lacking in the field to date is an effective way of coordinating the whole process between city engineers whoever is doing the inspections and the parties doing the repairs. For example the leading method of sewer pipe inspection today is to insert a video camera connected to a closed circuit television CCTV system down a sewer manhole while inspection personnel narrate the conditions in real time as they see them noting cracks leaks roots FOG and other blockages. Under industry practice today the resulting videos are typically burned to DVDs and handed to an engineer employed or hired by the sewer owner most often a city or other municipal agency for review. The engineer then plays each video back on a DVD player making notes that correspond to the number of feet from the originating manhole that a fault or other observation is located. The engineer will then take his notes find the relevant section of the city s plat maps and measuring on the map from the originating manhole try to manually figure out and mark on the plat map where the sewer pipe fault is. The plat map will then typically get faxed to the people responsible for making or bidding on the repair often a specialty contractor. The contractor will then try to get more information on that section of pipe from the city e.g. material size age etc. go to that section of the city on the plat map try to find the right manhole run his own camera down the line and try to find the fault noted on the plat map. Sometimes contractors will receive a copy of the original inspection DVD so that they can see what the fault looks like. The bottom line is that the contractor will attempt to find the same crack or leaking joint or blockage in the sewer and fix it. A post repair video of that sewer pipe may then be taken which the engineer will then review on DVD to try to find the same linear foot marker from the originating manhole to verify that the repair has been completed. At some point the city engineer will review paper forms and approve payment both to the contractor who made the inspection videos and to the contractor who repaired the fault. The city engineer will also typically try to make notes as to which sections of the sewer pipe have root growth which sections need to be cleaned more frequently and which sections need to be relined or replaced altogether so that he can build reliable budgets for work in upcoming years. All of the processes outlined above are currently performed manually for the most part and involve huge amounts of back and forth with paper trying to find needed information trying to locate the same fault etc.

Accordingly there is an advantage to automating or facilitating automation of this workflow to make it more effective and efficient. Doing so would free up dollars that are currently wasted on manual paper based or DVD based workflows to be spent on repair activities that directly reduce I I. Thus embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein are intended to address these problems in conventional techniques that result for example from the requirements of multiple layers of communication and collaboration.

The first layer of the problem addressed by certain embodiments disclosed herein is that cities and communities have wide variance in their waste water system records in the kind of information they track the quality of that information and the completeness of the information. There are also difficulties in knowing precisely the accurate location of a particular asset because many cities still are using mapping systems that predate Global Positioning System GPS technology. Many smaller cities may only have as built plans for their sewers which typically reflect the original engineering design plan or blueprint for the sewer construction. Some may be in paper format only although most are in what is known as Computer Aided Design CAD format. CAD software is able to generate sophisticated engineering drawings but traditionally such drawings do not have good database record structures. Thus the as built or CAD drawings cannot be updated with repairs changes etc. because they lack the database structure to do so.

Larger or more sophisticated cities may have transferred some or all of this as built information from CAD drawings into what are known as asset management systems. Asset management systems are true software database programs with record structures useful for tracking and updating specific information about the components making up the sewer systems as well as the repair history or changes to those components. However for those cities with asset management programs for their sewer infrastructure those working in the field find that every city tends to track different information about their sewer systems in these databases using different table structures indexes and naming formats. The way one city tracks its waste water assets may not at all match how another city tracks those same types of assets. Additionally the information tracked typically suffers from varying degrees of completeness and frequently is not kept up to date in any standardized way. Finally the information tends to be confusing and to degenerate towards inaccuracy at a very basic level. How does a contractor or engineer distinguish between one pipe segment at one particular location in a city from the ten thousand other segments that are just like it How does one engineer communicate to another engineer or contractor precisely where a particular crack is in a particular segment of pipe so that the second engineer can instantly go to that same spot see the same problem and fix it And how can the first engineer find the same spot again and verify that the original problem was solved Conventional asset management software has not addressed these location issues effectively.

Geospatial software programs can be used to link geospatial location information to asset information. To date these programs have tended to not be particularly strong on the asset detail record side and or on the workflow coordination side. In addition for many of these programs the geospatial locations of the assets have been derived from the original CAD drawings which is very problematic. In general the accuracy of the geospatial coordinates for the involved assets cannot be relied on for damage prevention or advanced asset management practices. Currently there is an unmet need to blend the strengths of an asset management program with a geospatial program in a manner that allows a platform to address all of these issues in order to create a uniform framework of assets and locations that can be quickly and accurately communicated to all parties and used efficiently as an online workflow platform.

As mentioned previously many states and cities have relied for years on CAD mapping systems which have traditionally used what are known as plane coordinate systems for mapping infrastructure locations. Plane coordinate systems predate GPS having been developed in the 1920s. At the time they were considered a big jump forward for taking points from the Earth s surface or from engineering design drawings and projecting them onto a flat map. However they are inherently flawed in that they get increasingly inaccurate as one moves away from their foundational zero points. Plane coordinate systems use a Cartesian grid system of x and y values and have constant lengths angles and areas across two dimensions. These two dimensional systems are not a match for the curved surface and actual three dimensional terrain of the Earth. The location of an asset as identified by a CAD system and the actual physical location of the asset in reality can be very different sometimes off by fifty meters a hundred meters or more. This is at the core of why there can be such a mismatch between CAD drawings used for sewage or other infrastructure and physical reality. The farther one gets from the control point that was used as the zero point in a plane coordinate system the greater the cumulative inaccuracy. In addition it is fairly typical for cities and utilities in a particular geographic area to use different plane coordinate systems in their CAD systems and as built drawings. So not only do the as built drawings not match physical reality but they frequently do not agree with each other. On a practical level for the engineers and workers in the field this means that it can be extraordinarily difficult to see where other infrastructure e.g. a gas distribution line or a fiber optic line is in relationship to a sewer line or other sewer infrastructure or to communicate precisely where a particular fault is located so that it can be evaluated and ultimately fixed.

Accordingly what is needed is a system or method that makes sanitary sewer or waste water infrastructure management more efficient and cost effective while simultaneously reducing unintended raw sewage overflows from sewers into public waterways.

In order to solve these problems with conventional technology systems and methods are disclosed for advanced sewer infrastructure management. Disclosed embodiments use an innovative approach innovative software algorithms and or cloud computing in order to create and use four dimensions of underground infrastructure data with sufficient accuracy compared to actual ground truth both geospatially and temporally that the data can be used to bring together and automate online in a very integrated and efficient fashion all of the previously isolated and disparate data silos that city engineers manually use today to manage their sanitary sewer infrastructure. Those isolated and disparate data silos can be in most cities as basic as paper notes marked up plat maps CAD drawings spreadsheets and videos or DVDs of sewer inspections. Some cities may also have some form of legacy asset management database in place with information about pipe sizes pipe materials repair histories etc. Some cities may have some or all of that data in geospatial shape files. In all cases engineers and contractors typically spend substantial amounts of time trying to manually bring together all of the disparate and isolated information in order to get their jobs done.

Disclosed embodiments act as a Rosetta Stone taking full advantage of the emerging geospatial paradigm for the first time in order to bring all the disparate and isolated information together in a synchronous whole with the purpose of efficiently automating workflows associated with advanced sanitary sewer infrastructure management. Embodiments may also use the highly visual nature of the geospatial paradigm to manage all the parts and lifecycles of sanitary sewer infrastructure management realizing multiple synergistic benefits that are not available under current management practices. As a result engineers and contractors can not only save significant time in accessing the full information necessary to do their jobs and but also do their jobs to a degree of efficacy not otherwise possible.

Accordingly in an embodiment a method for managing a sanitary sewer infrastructure is disclosed. The method comprises by at least one hardware processor re projecting a plurality of representations of infrastructure assets from a plane coordinate system into a geospatial coordinate system such that each of the re projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets is associated with a geospatial coordinate storing each of the re projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets and its associated geospatial coordinate in one or more databases receiving geospatial coordinates collected in the field from one or more user devices wherein each geospatial coordinate corresponds to a geospatial location of an infrastructure asset and adjusting a stored geospatial coordinate associated with one or more of the stored re projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets based on the received geospatial coordinates.

In an additional embodiment a system for managing a sanitary sewer infrastructure is disclosed. The system comprises at least one hardware processor and at least one executable software module that when executed by the at least one hardware processor re projects a plurality of representations of infrastructure assets from a plane coordinate system into a geospatial coordinate system such that each of the re projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets is associated with a geospatial coordinate stores each of the re projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets and its associated geospatial coordinate in one or more databases receives geospatial coordinates collected in the field from one or more user devices wherein each geospatial coordinate corresponds to a geospatial location of an infrastructure asset and adjusts a stored geospatial coordinate associated with one or more of the stored re projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets based on the received geospatial coordinates.

In an embodiment environmental attributes may also be re projected and stored in a similar manner as the plurality of representations of infrastructure assets. In addition the re projected plurality of representations of infrastructure assets and environmental attributes may be stored in geospatial layers. With each additional geospatial coordinate collected in the field not only can the matching infrastructure assets or environmental attributes be adjusted but related infrastructure assets and related environmental attributes can also be adjusted to match the totality of collected points and the resulting inferred ground truth placement of both assets and attributes. Thus in an embodiment each original loaded layer can be associated with a second layer that is increasingly adjusted and verified to match ground truth. These adjusted ground truth layers can then serve as the basis for advanced infrastructure asset management.

Server s may comprise web servers which host one or more websites or web services. In embodiments in which a website is provided the website may comprise one or more user interfaces including for example web pages generated in HyperText Markup Language HTML or other language. The server s transmit or serve these user interfaces in response to requests from user system s . In some embodiments these user interfaces may be served in the form of a wizard in which case two or more user interfaces may be served in a sequential manner and one or more of the sequential user interfaces may depend on an interaction of the user or user system with one or more preceding user interfaces. The requests to server s and the responses from server s including the user interfaces may both be communicated through network s which may include the Internet using standard communication protocols e.g. HTTP HTTPS FTP FTPS SFTP . These user interfaces or web pages may comprise a combination of content and elements such as text images videos animations references e.g. hyperlinks frames inputs e.g. textboxes text areas checkboxes radio buttons drop down menus buttons forms etc. scripts e.g. JavaScript and the like including elements comprising or derived from data stored in one or more databases not shown that are locally and or remotely accessible to server s . Server s may also respond to other requests from user system s .

Server s may further comprise be communicatively coupled with or otherwise have access to one or more database s . For example server s may comprise one or more database servers which manage one or more databases. A user system third party system or application executing on server s may submit data e.g. user data form data etc. to be stored in the database s and or request access to data stored in such database s . Any suitable database may be utilized including without limitation MySQL Oracle IBM Microsoft SQL Sybase Access and the like including cloud based database instances. Data may be sent to the server s for instance using the well known POST request supported by HTTP via FTP etc. This data as well as other requests may be handled for example by server side web technology such as a servlet or other software module executed by the server s .

In embodiments in which a web service is provided server s may receive requests from user system s and or third party system s and provide responses in eXtensible Markup Language XML and or any other suitable or desired format. In such embodiments server s may provide an application programming interface API which defines the manner in which user system s and or third party system s may interact with the web service. Thus user system s and or third party system s which may themselves be servers can define their own user interfaces and rely on the web service to implement the backend processes functionality storage etc. described herein. For example in such an embodiment a client application executing on one or more user system s may interact with a server application executing on server s to execute one or more or a portion of one or more of the various functions processes and or software modules described herein. The client application may be thin in which case processing is primarily carried out server side by server s . A simple example of a thin client application is a browser application which simply requests receives and renders web pages at user system s while server s are responsible for generating the web pages and managing database functions. Alternatively the client application may be thick in which case processing is primarily carried out client side by user system s . It should be understood that the client application may perform an amount of processing relative to server s at any point along this spectrum between thin and thick depending on the design goals of the particular implementation. In any case the application which may wholly reside on either the server s or user system s or be distributed between the server s or user system s can comprise one or more executable software modules that implement one or more of the processes or functions of the application described herein.

In an embodiment the application executing on server s may generate a mash up from multiple sources. A mash up in this context refers to a user interface that uses and or combines data presentations and or functionality from two or more sources to create a new amalgamation of data presentations and or functionality. For example the application may comprise a web application that generates web pages based on data from multiple sources.

In addition server platform may be communicatively connected with one or more third party sources for example via one or more APIs. In this example the illustrated sources comprise public mapping service s geographic information system s GIS or third party application s geo imagery source and media source . It should be understood that more or fewer sources and different sources may be utilized. In this case server platform receives the data from the plurality of sources e.g. and or processes the received data to generate associations between infrastructure assets and geospatial and attribute data for the infrastructure assets. These associations are stored in spatial database . In addition server platform receives geo imagery data from source s which may comprise one or more Internet mapping providers e.g. Google Maps Microsoft Bing Yahoo Maps MapQuest etc. . This geographic image data or data derived from this data may be stored in map server to facilitate the generation and or retrieval of virtual map images e.g. image tiles . Alternatively or additionally the geographic image data may be requested from geo imagery source s at the time of consumption and not stored. Application server may utilize map server to generate a virtual map and utilize spatial database to generate one or more overlays of infrastructure asset data that can be overlaid upon the virtual map in a user interface e.g. web page that may be served by application server or a separate web server not shown to user system s .

It should be understood that server platform illustrated in may comprise more or fewer architectural features such as firewalls load balancers and the like. For instance server platform may also comprise a report server not shown which utilizes spatial database and or map server to generate one or more reports regarding infrastructure assets maintenance budgets contracts bids billing invoices or other features disclosed herein. It should also be understood that the disclosed application may comprise just one of a plurality of different application modules available on server platform all of which utilize spatial database and or map server .

In an embodiment seamless and efficient collaboration is achieved by directly supporting the process of efficiently transforming all of a municipality s sewer infrastructure maps and other relevant infrastructure data into a single geospatially aligned framework and storing the transformed infrastructure data. In an embodiment the single geospatially aligned framework that is used across all clients or municipalities comprises the single standard reference geographic coordinate system known as the World Geodetic System or WGS . This is the framework which is used by GPS. WGS supplies a latitude longitude and elevation on the Earth s surface for any identified point in the agreed datum that most closely matches the shape of the Earth. GPS relies on a global network of satellites to provide precise positioning. In 2000 military restrictions on the use of GPS were relaxed and civilian use accuracy was allowed to go from one hundred meters to twenty meters. In addition over the last dozen years technology has incredibly accelerated the possible accuracy of GPS. Now farmers riding on a tractor can get continuous accuracy within a few centimeters to guide their planting and fertilizing.

Notably WGS is periodically updated to reflect tectonic plate movement from earthquakes and continental drift keeping the positioning accurate in conformance with International Terrestrial Reference Frame ITRF updates. The current version is WGS G1674 . In reading this disclosure it should be understood that references to WGS refer to the last implemented frame update. However the embodiments disclosed herein are not so limited and may be used with any past or future versions as well. All geospatial data and coordinates stored in the database may be automatically adjusted to match the frame update currently in effect. GPS readings from the field can also be received in the frame update currently in effect.

The widespread use of the emerging standard WGS geographic coordinate system would allow if the coordinates of the WGS layers representing infrastructure asset placement matched ground truth all of a municipality s sewer infrastructure information as well as secondary information such as utilities roads sidewalks property boundaries easements environmental attributes and other infrastructure data to be brought into geospatial alignment e.g. in a cloud based platform and presented seamlessly e.g. via a web browser to an engineer s contractor s or other user s system e.g. laptop tablet desktop mobile phone etc. . What the engineer would observe at a certain measured GPS location would match what the engineer s device e.g. laptop tablet etc. would present as being at that same location. This geospatial alignment allows for huge efficiency gains but is not easily possible with conventional technology because cities utilities and contractors utilize multiple different coordinate systems and projections for infrastructure. The resulting maps do not visually or spatially align even for the exact same area. Across just the U.S. cities utilities and contractors use more than one hundred twenty different state plane coordinate systems some local county plane coordinate systems and even a few national plane coordinate systems to track their sewage and other infrastructure. Single coordinate systems may have further variation across time. In an embodiment the disclosed server platform implements a cloud based fully digital model in usable geospatial alignment based on all infrastructure locations being adjusted continuously and systematically towards more precise placement in the WGS reference frame through a process of leveraging actual ground truth measurements.

One reason that this is important is that very few municipal sewage infrastructure systems exist in isolation anymore. Increasingly there are multiple parties who work across geopolitical jurisdictional lines and need the ability to access information in a standardized format. For example many gas companies are constructing new natural gas pipelines to replace aging infrastructure relocating existing gas infrastructure or installing new gas infrastructure to support new development. Frequently this pipeline construction requires that new gas mains and services be installed in areas that already have substantial residential and commercial development complete with existing landscaping driveways and pavement. Installing new gas mains and services in previously landscaped and or paved surroundings can be a significant challenge. To avoid excessive restoration and the associated costs and disruption to the involved neighborhoods gas pipeline contractors often install the gas main or service by drilling or boring the pipe directly through the ground horizontally rather than digging up a new trench to go down the street. However underground pipeline construction using horizontal drilling or boring can leave other utilities susceptible to damage.

According to many gas companies based on historical experience sewer systems remain the most susceptible to damage. From their viewpoint owners and operators of sewer systems typically have poor records which make it difficult to locate sewer facilities in the field. Not knowing the accurate location of sewer laterals can lead to pipeline contractors drilling or boring thru sewer mains and laterals by mistake. The operator of a drilling or boring machine cannot always identify whether the installation has caused a gas main or service to penetrate a sewer lateral. Therefore it is possible that what is known as a cross bore goes unnoticed initially and un repaired. An un repaired sewer lateral with a gas main or service obstruction can cause sewage backup to homes or businesses. Typically a plumber gets called in. The plumber not realizing that a gas main has been bored through the sewer lateral may snake a rotating blade cutter through the sewer lateral to clear the suspected debris. If the cutter were to come into contact with a plastic gas main or service it would likely cut right through the line and introduce gas into the sewer. The gas could migrate into a home or business resulting in a potentially catastrophic explosion. As a result many gas companies engaged in these kinds of construction projects would like to get much more accurate information about sewer infrastructure both pre and post construction.

As another example many cities band together to share a waste water treatment plant. For example the Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewage District is made up of twenty eight different municipalities. These municipalities although all under the same governing body have different data and formats for their sewer infrastructure data. In addition each municipality may or may not use the same inspection firms cleaning firms and or repair firms. Under these circumstances when the District is under mandate to dramatically cut down on the infiltration and inflow which caused raw sewage to recently flood the basements of hundreds of houses the challenges of coordinating and collaborating in a cost effective manner are extreme. The costs of trying to do the coordinating and the collaboration manually are also very high.

Thus in an embodiment as a first step the disclosed process is focused on efficiently and cost effectively bringing all of the disparate data silos which suffer from different coordinate systems and different data formats into an initial single geospatially aligned view within a server platform which may be a cloud based platform. This singular view enables all involved parties to view and work with the data easily and cost effectively using nothing other than a web browser. It should be noted that after this first step the aggregated and standardized data supporting the initial view may still be relatively imprecise.

In an embodiment the process receives CAD shape files or other source data representing sewer other infrastructure and or environmental attribute data for one or more municipalities. This source data may be received from a state city community utility contractor etc. and may comprise without limitation the assumed location of sewer manholes pipes property boundaries road boundaries utility lines soil type and the like. The process may also automatically examine metadata associated with the source data. Based on the data metadata and or other data one or more software modules e.g. executed by server platform may determine the plane coordinate system or projection system in which the sewer and or other data of the source data is currently mapped.

Once the coordinate system or projection system has been determined the CAD or shape file data is converted or recast into WGS format. In an embodiment the data is recast in a newly created layer that will become the ground truth layer for that particular data set. There may be multiple layers created with one such layer for each set of initial data. This recasting may be performed using one or more of several well known or proprietary techniques saving significant amounts of time that would otherwise be spent manually analyzing the data. It may not be possible to accomplish this level of automation for every source s data but it may be performed for at least a large percentage of the source data. Advantageously this step brings infrastructure location data previously in multiple disparate projection formats into an initial relatively still imprecise single geospatially aligned view. The automation also cuts the costs to municipalities for bringing their disparate data silos into a first stage of rudimentary geospatial alignment. Some infrastructure or other environmental attribute layers that are already in geospatial format e.g. of unknown frame epoch and or accuracy may also be loaded as layers each with a corresponding new ground truth layer created. At this point infrastructure assets property lines aerial imagery other environmental attributes etc. should all be in rough alignment with actual physical reality.

The initial process of re projection of shape files from a plane coordinate system or other projection system into a geospatial format e.g. WGS is typically only the first step. While the initial geospatial information may help sewer workers initially locate the sewer pipe segments lateral manholes and or other infrastructure assets it may still be rough in terms of accuracy. For example this initial information may result in geospatial accuracy of only within meters. However for the accuracy and effectiveness required for certain advanced infrastructure management applications it is foundational to achieve geospatial placement of assets aerial imagery and environmental attributes in very close alignment with actual physical ground truth that is accurate on the order of several inches or centimeters. That level of accuracy may be referred to herein as highly accurate GPS. 

Geospatial inaccuracy is a problem that the whole industry currently suffers from. There are three possible sources for this geospatial inaccuracy. First the sewer system that was actually built or that has been modified over time may simply not match the as built drawings that the municipality thought represented the actual placement or the components of the sewer system. Second depending on the quality of the original CAD as built drawings re projection may not be able to sufficiently correct for the jump between the Cartesian x y coordinate system of the CAD drawings and the WGS geospatial spherical x y z coordinate system. In these cases re projection may expose gaps between the edges of the re projected tiles e.g. the sewer pipe ends at one point in space and starts at another point in space overlaps between adjoining tiles e.g. a section of sewer pipe is covered up by the adjoining tile and or distortions in tiles e.g. one quadrant of the tile is satisfactory but sewer pipes in another quadrant of the tile where there is a valley are twenty meters off . A third possible source of error is that the aerial imagery or the base maps themselves may be off in terms of their alignment between their images and the corresponding embedded GPS points. For the most part current industry practice is that engineers and contractors simply live with these geospatial errors including all of the limitations and extra work imposed by these errors. Some municipalities and or contractors will try to fix these errors over time by a process of periodically making manual adjustments to the geospatial placement of the infrastructure assets or to the aerial tiles to try and make them more representative of actual physical reality. However such efforts tend to be hit or miss and not systematic.

The biggest source of error for most municipalities is likely to be in the re projected CAD tiles themselves. As mentioned above this is due to the inherent differences between Cartesian coordinate systems and a spherical coordinate system and the limitations of transforming from one reference frame to another. In an embodiment an application comprising a measurement module can be provided to contractors or other workers in the field. This measurement module may be installed and executed on or communicatively coupled to a handheld device with an integral or connected high accuracy GPS receiver e.g. capable of consistent accuracy within the ten to twenty centimeter range or better . As these workers visit individual sewer assets e.g. a manhole to do sewer inspections or repairs they can use a measurement module e.g. of a handheld application installed on a handheld device to measure the actual physical or ground truth position of the assets e.g. center of the manhole at that point in time. In a measure mode of the handheld application comprising the measurement module touching an icon e.g. on a virtual map representing the manhole or other asset will link the as measured latitude longitude and elevation from an integral or connected high accuracy GPS receiver device to the asset e.g. via an asset identifier along with the time at which the measurement was collected. This association of an asset identifier and as measured coordinates may be transmitted over at least one network to a server application of server platform . For instance the measurement module may be installed and executed on user system C and the association of an asset identifier and as measured coordinates collected by the measurement module may be transmitted over network s to server platform either automatically or in response to a user interaction. The server application which receives the associations of assets with coordinates may use the collected data to adjust the location of the manhole on the base tile as derived from the original CAD or shape file import to a far more accurate WGS ground truth location. In an embodiment technicians may be able to see the adjustment take place instantly on the screen of their handheld or other mobile device e.g. on a virtual map interface of the handheld application . In the case of some assets such as manholes the service repositions more than just the identified asset. For example as a manhole location get repositioned to match reality the pipe segments extending from the manhole may also be automatically adjusted by one or more algorithms to fit the new more accurate manhole location.

There is a current industry practice known as rubber sheeting in which a few control points e.g. a curb fire hydrant tree etc. with known latitude and longitude coordinates are manually dragged to the correct location on an aerial image or map. Such changes cannot be undone with any accuracy. In an embodiment one or more modules executing on server platform or on a user system automatically perform a similar process on the fly. However these modules use artificial intelligence to automatically readjust the infrastructure points and lines of the sewer system in a more accurate and possibly non uniform fashion to determine positions for them that match physical reality as measured by GPS. This results in automatic continual improvements of stored infrastructure asset positions. The accurate positioning of as few as two manholes on a base tile may be used to adjust all of the other infrastructure assets on that tile to more closely match their real world positions. As more and more of a municipality s manholes get measured across time in the normal process of inspection and maintenance the whole virtual sewer network for that municipality will become increasingly accurately positioned. What is notable here is that the collection of a small percentage of highly accurate locations of specific infrastructure points associated with what were previously inaccurate historical CAD tiles or as built drawings of shape files will be sufficient under this method to automatically adjust all remaining points on that tile or utility print to a high level of accuracy. Each additional point collected will be used along with all prior collected and anchored ground truth points in the next iteration of the adjustment process to simply keep refining the locations of all remaining previously unlocated infrastructure points on a particular tile or shape file. Cities regions or utilities will be quickly able to create highly accurate four dimensional matrices of all their sewer infrastructure assets other assets and any desired environmental attributes. Such matrices comprising x y and z coordinates plus time are a foundation for more efficient and effective advanced asset management practices and techniques. What is shown on virtual maps e.g. provided by map server of server platform may eventually match reality to within a few centimeters for any given manhole sewer main or other asset. This process of realignment may be considered non uniform because for example a loaded CAD tile may need to be adjusted in certain areas e.g. stretched to reflect a valley but not in other areas e.g. in which the terrain is flat . Because of the associated time dimension tile wide adjustments that are based on any collected point later found to be invalid can be rolled back. There may be a whole history of adjustments available not only in table form but also available via visual representation on the application s virtual map.

A second source of possible error in geospatial accuracy is that the base maps and aerial imagery e.g. which may be from Google Maps Microsoft Bing or other source used by server platform may themselves contain geospatial inaccuracies. Digital imagery used in geospatial application software is a computer compatible version of an aerial photograph satellite photograph or other map image. Photography is taken from a high altitude aircraft that flies over a particular geographic region. These photographs are then scanned into or transferred to a computer as digital photographs raster images making them available for use in a GIS. However in order to be useful in a GIS application digital imagery must be further processed to correct for scale distortions that occur when imaging the earth from the air and to associate GPS points with every pixel in the imagery. This correction is called orthogonal rectification or ortho rectification. These are terms used to describe aerial photography in digital format that has been digitally processed and transformed from image coordinates to real world coordinates. Orthogonal rectification makes corrections within a photograph so that the scale is uniform throughout the resulting image and so that touching the photograph at any point returns what should be the real world GPS points in latitude and longitude associated with that point. In this way the digital ortho photographs combine the image characteristics of a photograph with the geometric qualities of a map. Distances and locations should be able to be accurately measured from these images.

However sometimes the orthogonal rectification process is of poor quality due to problems with airplane flight alignment or camera inaccuracies in the collection of the images. In such a case a user may see a sewer manhole for example in an aerial image but when he or she touches the manhole in the aerial image it returns coordinates that do not in fact match the physical reality as recorded by someone in the field who is using GPS equipment to get a set of coordinates that is accurate to within a few inches. Thus in an embodiment workers in the field after they have measured where a particular sewer manhole or other infrastructure asset is in the real world with highly accurate GPS equipment and made the adjustment of the icon representing the asset itself as discussed above may then note a discrepancy between the as measured latitude longitude and elevation of the infrastructure asset and the latitude longitude and elevation associated with that asset in the aerial imagery tiles e.g. as measured coordinates of the manhole do not in fact match the coordinates of the manhole image in the aerial image itself . Using functionality embodied in the measurement module the technician may using a field device e.g. handheld device to upon noticing the discrepancy in alignment between the real world reality and the image simply touch the corresponding image point representing an infrastructure asset in the aerial imagery within the application. That point of the aerial image will be adjusted accordingly to the accurate GPS coordinates at server platform . This process of non uniform adjustment can take place under user control whenever more than one point in any aerial imagery tile has been readjusted to real world coordinates.

Thus in an embodiment the disclosed systems and methods deal with the lack of geospatial accuracy and alignment that is systemic in the infrastructure management mapping space today via a systematic process of automatic continual improvement. Specifically they enable continuous systematic improvement of geospatial alignment and accuracy via a process of non uniform geospatial corrective adjustments of either infrastructure data sets aerial imagery data sets and or environmental attributes. In an embodiment these adjustments are managed and implemented by cloud based software e.g. residing on server platform based on the movement of one or more known control points to new locations which match collected highly accurate geospatial coordinates. Correcting several control points per aerial image tile can much more closely align all points of the aerial image tile with more accurate real world GPS points. As noted earlier a manual process known as rubber sheeting has been used previously in geospatial applications to manually adjust control points one by one in one map layer to match the corresponding points in another map layer. A unique aspect in embodiments of the disclosed systems and methods are their ability using artificial intelligence to in the very process of the field work inspection and repair itself when workers are connected to server platform e.g. which may comprise cloud based services carry out a process of continuous improvement in real time which adjusts asset aerial and base map layers to create an unprecedented level of geospatial alignment and accuracy between all mapping levels and the actual physical world. Each new collected ground truth point can then be used in combination with all previously collected ground truth points to adjust all other related infrastructure or other environmental attribute points on that particular layer and tile that have not yet been anchored by collected ground truth points.

The database structure managed by server platform may be designed to facilitate and leverage this process of continually improving geospatial alignment between infrastructure assets aerial imagery and physical reality. In an embodiment this design comprises at least four primary dimensions for tracking infrastructure assets as well as dimensions for all associated asset attributes such as valuation asset condition deterioration work orders predictive modeling money spent on upkeep etc. The four primary dimensions are the x y and z dimensions for all physically collected measurements and a time dimension for when each measurement was taken. Every measurement of an asset point position is thus an as measured as of attribute of the associated asset. Thus it becomes possible to have queries that ask where was this sewer line at this point in time that would reflect that the sewer line was repositioned or rebuilt as of a certain date with a resulting new valuation expected lifespan etc. This design also allows the query of asset condition belonging to a specific asset at any point in time and the juxtaposition of that asset condition against the asset condition of that same asset in another selected point in time. Engineers can instantly see how the most recent video inspection for a particular pipe segment compares to the one from a year earlier or the one from five years earlier. To facilitate the value of this embodiment there may be time sliders both on the map and within the query screen that allows any query to be filtered by time constraints.

One reason that the disclosed processes that systematically refine the geospatial locations of infrastructure data and aerial imagery into highly accurate geospatial alignment are so important is that the resulting very accurate geospatial alignment for all the different infrastructure layers e.g. sewer manholes sewer mains sewer laterals gas lines property lines or other utilities that a municipality might want loaded in this e.g. cloud based server platform acts like a Rosetta Stone for far more efficient infrastructure management. It allows for all sorts of synergistic mathematical interactions and queries with the involved assets that were previously unavailable as long as they were in disparate and inaccurate coordinate systems that did not match each other and did not match reality. Combining very accurate geospatial locations of infrastructure assets with the temporal dimension allows what may be called temporal geo polymorphism to take place. With this temporal geo polymorphism functionality very advanced four dimensional queries can look across all infrastructure environmental attribute aerial and other mapping layers in a selected geospatial area for a selected slice of time.

For example in one embodiment it is possible to a on a virtual map see generated symbols of where all the sewer main repairs in a certain time frame or by a certain contractor have taken place and b accurately jump to any of those repairs and to have lined up within several inches of accuracy the matching segments of pre repair sewer pipe video and post repair video in order to perform quality control to ensure that the repairs were done and done correctly. In another example a query can match up rainfall distribution maps against involved sewer basins and then proportionately compare the increase in flow in various sewer mains during rainfall events in their sewer basins in order to identify the priority pipes that are afflicted with disproportionately high inflow and infiltration. Another relevant example is that once this geospatial alignment has taken place for two asset classes such as sewer pipes and gas lines mathematical algorithms can instantly show on the map all points where any sewer pipe is within x meters of a gas line. This kind of analytical power is only available when assets are brought into the highly accurate geospatial alignment provided by the disclosed server platform . It cannot be done in CAD tile systems.

In an embodiment one or more modules e.g. executing on server platform utilize the collected highly accurate geospatial locations of manholes at the ends of each sewer segment to automatically assign highly accurate geospatial coordinates to every point of the length of the connecting pipe segment as well as to assign geospatial coordinates to any form of continuous pipeline inspection data e.g. CCTV or some form of electrical or ultrasonic inspection . For example geospatial coordinates may be assigned to one or more video frames including all frames or a plurality of frames at predetermined intervals of an inspection video. Traditionally sewer pipe videos have been marked in linear feet from a zero point e.g. a particular fault is x feet from the manhole where the sewer video started filming . The modules can automatically assign geospatial coordinates to the frames of a sewer pipe inspection video or to some other continuous condition inspection data stream. One aspect of embodiments of the disclosed modules is the ability to seamlessly translate back and forth between linear measurements and geospatial coordinates. As a result all faults identified within any inspection video or other inspection data stream can have geospatial coordinates associated with them. Using these highly accurate geospatial coordinates faults and other items of interest can be provided in a mapping layer of a server application which cannot be done at all when the measurements are simply in linear feet from a manhole. Nor can they be accurately done if the geospatial coordinates of the manholes have not first been established with high accuracy. For example a pipe segment can be shown on a virtual map to have five critical faults within a short section of right of way that also suffers from some form of environmental contamination. Such knowledge may instantly inform the best option for needed repair. Under current industry practice fault information from sewer pipe inspections is buried in linear information and cannot be instantly visualized in relationship to other critical factors.

In an embodiment the disclosed application leverages geospatial fault locations and the time dimension against other attribute data to support more effective and more efficient sewer pipe management. This allows faults to be filtered by geospatial location as well as by time of observation time of repair current status of repair or any other collected attribute that has a time component. Query results can then be shown as symbols linked to the underlying data on the mapping layers of the application. Faults of varying severity can have different symbols or colors. Junctures where lateral pipes from properties come into the sewer main can have unique symbols as well. Stretches of the pipe where there has been root growth in prior inspections or FOG buildup or some other blockage can all be stored and shown symbolically upon query of the application. This allows for very powerful querying. For example a city engineer can query and be shown all actual stretches of sewer mains over the last five years in which based on video inspection in those years there were physical overlaps of stretches that suffered from root growth or FOG obstruction. This kind of easy access to key information is exactly what is needed to identify sections of sewer pipe in need of more frequent inspection and cleaning. Contractors can also use this functionality to instantly see the faults of a particular type that still need to be fixed and where they are located for more efficient job scheduling.

In an embodiment one or more modules e.g. residing on server platform concurrently with loading the CAD and or shape files from one or more municipalities or clients and transforming those files into a new layer with initial first stage rudimentary WGS geospatial alignment quickly loads the associated attribute data for those CAD and or shape files into a universal attribute system that allows data comparison across unlimited sewer systems. Currently every municipality tends to track different information about their sewer systems using different table structures indexes and naming formats. For instance the way one city tracks its waste water assets may not at all match how another city tracks those same types of assets. In an embodiment the disclosed modules solve this problem of variance in collection of sewer system attribute data by having a setup interface which allows an administrator to quickly sort out and map where each type of attribute data will go on an ongoing basis within an universal attribute system. This allows the disclosed application even though it has the data of hundreds of cities available to it to present all the data with a consistent presentation within the application. For example touching or clicking on a sewer pipe will show the same attribute information on the screen if the relevant data was supplied in the same format and presentation. In addition it allows the data of one sewer system to be compared against the data of another sewer system even if the original data formats were quite different. This is very useful for contractors and engineers who have dozen of clients with whom they are under contract and who want to compare costs or repair histories or maintenance methodologies across multiple clients.

As mentioned one of the key methods of sewer inspection for many municipalities is inserting video cameras down a manhole and running the cameras along the inside of the sewer main in order to capture video of the walls of the sewer main. This approach is effective at spotting cracks in the walls bad joints root growth FOG or other faults. The video camera can also be run off of a sewer main to capture the inside of a lateral that connects the main to a residence or business. Traditionally these videos have been burned to DVD and then handed to the client or municipality by the inspection contractor. The disclosed application offers many enhancements to this process. For instance the disclosed application may be cloud hosted solving the technical challenges associated with hosting sewer videos in the cloud.

In an embodiment burning sewer videos to DVDs and manually distributing them to parties who need to view them is no longer required. There are several different video filming formats used by contractors for their work dependent on the software they use with a particular camera brand. The disclosed application may be configured to work with these differing formats. In an embodiment contractors can directly load the videos from their work site to a video loading area e.g. via FTP or HTTP . Once the videos are loaded algorithms e.g. of server platform may be executed to take that raw video and automatically prepare it for hosting e.g. within the cloud for viewing at normal speed as well as at various accelerated speeds. As part of the process each video segment which may be associated with a video segment identifier is linked geospatially to its corresponding sewer main or sewer lateral segment. If an engineer wants to review inspections for a particular pipe segment he or she may simply click on the icon overlaid on a sewer line on the associated virtual map and be shown what videos historically exist for that particular pipe segment. Clicking again on one of the available videos may load it into the viewer. It may be played at varying speeds and the original observation notes may be available e.g. off to the side of the video as it plays. Each video segment may be encoded with security partitions that allow only users with the right roles and permissions to view that particular video. A high availability content distribution network may utilized for each municipality s videos. In an additional embodiment older inspection videos may be moved or archived to lower cost cloud based low availability storage for historical storage.

An original video may be received by importer module . Importer module processes video to prepare it for storage and access. For instance importer module may convert video to a standard format that is suitable for streaming to a web browser and associate frames or segments of the video with geospatial coordinates observations notes documents and or other data. Importer module may also process video to be played at multiple playback speeds. For example importer module may generate one or more down sampled videos from original video e.g. videos with fewer frames and or lower resolutions . Importer module may also interface with web application e.g. via one or more APIs. Web application provides user interfaces to web browser and supports user and machine interactions with the user interfaces.

The processed videos may be uploaded to storage which may be cloud storage. Storage may stored videos documents and other data and be partitioned according to keys provided by web application which are determined by the legal owner of the stored data. In an embodiment a streaming distribution may be created for each data partition. This streaming distribution may include one or more content distribution networks . While accessing web application via web browser content e.g. videos documents or other media embedded in the user interfaces provided by web application stored in storage is streamed either directly from storage or through the respective data owner s content delivery network . In an embodiment text content is served by web application non streaming non text content e.g. documents and images is served directly by cloud storage and streaming content e.g. video is served by content delivery network .

Each video segment may be associated with attributes that control security e.g. roles and permissions such as those provided in the content distribution network . Each video segment may also be associated with high level information concerning when it was captured an overall five star rating e.g. a Pipeline Assessment and Certification Program PACP rating of the pipe segment shown in or otherwise corresponding to the video segment an identification of the contractor who captured the video segment etc. In addition to this information appearing when a particular video segment is selected this information may also be viewed for all stored videos in a list view which can then be filtered by user defined queries. The resulting filtered list view of videos that meet a certain criteria will then redraw what video icons appear in a layer on a virtual map. Any item on the list when queried points to the corresponding video on the virtual map. Drawing a geospatial lasso on the virtual map returns a list of inspections that meets the filter criteria with the addition of the geospatial criteria represented by the geospatial lasso.

The current extant reality for city engineers who need to handle physical DVDs has been previously discussed. The disclosed application radically simplifies and bypasses those existing manual processes. Using the disclosed application a user e.g. contractor to a municipality or staff member of a municipality may carry out the video inspections of one or more sewer pipe segments. Each day the contractor may upload completed sewer video segments from that day s filming to the video upload area. In embodiments one or more modules of server platform automatically prepare the uploaded video for hosting in the cloud adding speed control security control enhancements and or other processing to generate hosted high availability videos. The videos are automatically linked to the relevant corresponding pipe segments and the originating manholes in the corresponding shape files that have been previously loaded and geospatially aligned by server platform . Attributes about a sewage infrastructure system that have been supplied by municipalities and others may also be automatically linked to the appropriate shape file. A city engineer logging into the system can query all videos uploaded using sophisticated filters geospatial lassos dates etc. Clicking on a presented video icon which may be overlaid on a virtual map at the location corresponding to the location of the asset that is the subject of the video represented by the icon allows the city engineer to review that video e.g. foot by foot . The video may be presented along with any observations made concerning the video. Additional attribute details can be added to any existing note about a fault or an observation. Geospatial links can be created for any note that links to the exact spot in the video footage and or on the virtual map. Such links may then show a coded fault as a searchable or clickable symbol on the virtual map. New faults and observations can be noted and automatically linked to geospatial coordinates. Extended faults such as root growth over a twenty foot section of pipe can be geospatially linked to the virtual map in their full extent.

In an embodiment using the geospatial coordinates that have been embedded in or otherwise associated with every pipe segment and every video segment the application allows city engineers to attach work orders online to any geospatial location associated with a specific sewer infrastructure asset and even to specific faults as revealed by video or other inspection methodology within a pipe segment. In addition work orders can be linked and authorized online against existing approved city purchase orders for such work. When work orders have been attached either to assets or to faults the authorized contractor can instantly see a queue of work orders appear in the contractor s work queue. Each work order may have a clickable link that takes the contractor to the exact point on the application map where there is a specific pipe fault to be repaired or to the overall pipe segment to be repaired. Alternatively or additionally a clickable link can allow the authorized contractor to jump instantly to the relevant pre repair video inspection segment for each fault to be repaired and to see the visual details of the fault for themselves. Relevant information on the pipe age material size etc. may be available to the contractor by clicking on the virtual map icon for the pipe segment. The status of the work order e.g. open complete in process etc. may be made available to all appropriate parties e.g. those with appropriate security settings and can be a filterable query. When the work is complete the contractor can upload a post work inspection video. The city engineer will be able to compare the pre repair and post repair video side by side for quality control and invoice approval purposes. All historical videos can be stored indefinitely for purposes of judging pipe deterioration over time FOG tendencies etc.

The disclosed application may also provide for collaboration. For instance one engineer can if wanting collaboration from another engineer on reviewing a particular video click on a button and instantly send an email to that engineer with a deep link to a video or a particular frame of one of the sewer inspection videos in order to get his opinion on a particular fault depicted on the video or to point out something in a particular video frame to the other engineer. The same can be done when an engineer wants to have a contractor look at a particular fault on a sewer line video. This kind of instant collaboration has not been possible before. Rather conventionally one engineer would have to get a physical copy of an inspection video DVD into the hands of another engineer and then that engineer would have to fast forward to the correct footage.

In a further embodiment real time collaboration may be provided. For example two users may be able to view a video together e.g. by viewing a video being played in one browser that is synched with a video being played in another browser video conference and or instant message while viewing a video etc. In certain embodiments a user may also be able to view images or video that a contractor is capturing during an inspection in real time while it is being captured. Thus a contractor could consult with one or more engineers or other users during an inspection.

In an additional collaborative embodiment if one user wants to share a customized search and its results with another user e.g. engineer or contractor the user may click on a button and instantly send an email or other message to the other party with a deep link to that query and its results. The link may show a query results window with simultaneous display on a virtual map of all involved asset or fault locations. The application allows queries to be very detailed. For example a query may comprise all 36 inch sewer pipe sections in a particular geospatial extent made out of reinforced concrete that have three star ratings or worse in the last two inspection cycles. This functionality is excellent for promoting collaboration due to its time saving nature.

In an embodiment the application allows users e.g. city engineers to attach project plans to any infrastructure asset such as a pipeline segment or to any identified fault itself. Such project plans can be debited against maintenance budgets for current or upcoming years. Such budgets can also be set up in the application. Each project task or subtask can be linked to a separate unique geospatial location on the map. For example a project plan can be created which is linked to a particular geospatial extent encompassing a particular sewer basin. Each task of that project plan may be linked to a particular pipe segment or other asset of that basin in need of repair. Each subtask may be linked to a particular fault in that particular asset e.g. a fault in a pipe segment that needs to be grouted . All projects tasks and subtasks can be shown as icons on a virtual map in their correct geospatial location. All display of projects tasks and subtasks on the virtual map can additionally be filtered by time sliders on the map. For example a user can query the service to only show those projects that will be underway in a particular three month period. Full projects plans can be developed with timelines resources dependencies and budgets. Awarded contracts for work under the budgets can be set up with hourly rates work roles etc. Work orders to outside contractors that fall under those awarded contracts can be issued and invoices can be generated online that debit those contract awards. Those invoices can be approved for payment online by city engineers or other users. A full range of management reports can be run against yearly budgets e.g. showing spending rates percentage of work remaining etc. Settable online alerts may also be provided.

In an embodiment the application provides a module which allows future project plans for sewer infrastructure to be shared with other city departments and with outside utilities. In this manner future potentially overlapping work can be coordinated costs shared and neighborhood disruption minimized. For example if the city roads department can visually see that a certain sewer segment is going to be dug up and replaced in eighteen months the road department can put off the currently planned repaving project they have budgeted for the involved road segment until after the sewer work is complete. Under this coordinated scenario costs can be shared saving both the roads department and the sewer department significant money that they had budgeted individually for these independent projects. In a further enhancement to this embodiment in addition to seeing future projects on the map in a selected slice of time the application may automatically take the forward work plans developed by the sewer department as well as those created by other city departments or outside utilities and create time and space placeholders for all projects tasks and subtasks. An enhancement of the temporal geo polymorphism functionality detailed earlier can automatically search through the stored time and space dimensions to automatically detect all overlaps of projects in time and space and email the involved parties of such potential conflicts. For example if the application detects a linked or loaded future road project that overlaps with a planned sewer project the engineers in both departments can be automatically sent emails notifying them of the potential conflict and opportunity for coordination.

In an embodiment city engineers can use the disclosed application to manage the awarding of inspection and or maintenance contracts for the sewer infrastructure system. Time constrained logins can be set up allowing bidders to see the extent of the sewer network to be inspected and to see any inspection videos detailing faults to be repaired. Bid documents and any other necessary documents concerning the infrastructure can be made available online to potential bidders. A very sophisticated user login security system can be customized to allow access to only certain geopolitical boundaries to certain information even to customized geospatial selections of infrastructure or to only certain selected layers of infrastructure e.g. sewer infrastructure but not gas distribution infrastructure .

In an embodiment the application can feed selected attribute data condition data and or budget data of the sewer infrastructure system into a predictive modeling engine on server platform . The predictive modeling engine may use algorithms to determine where maintenance dollars can be best spent in order to optimize ongoing performance of the sewer system. The resulting outputs can then be visually overlaid on a virtual map of the involved city s sewer mains in order to more clearly show where dollars should be spent in what time frame and what the outcomes for such spending will be in terms of condition ratings at a certain point in the future. These visual outputs may controlled by time sliders or other time inputs. What if scenarios can be run under this model. For example if the budget is reduced 200 000 this year what is the impact on sewer main condition 4 years from now Color coded results for each sewer line segment may be displayed on a virtual map as well as output in results windows. This is extraordinarily powerful technology that can allow city engineers or contractors to quickly assess the strengths and weaknesses of various maintenance strategies and to match them against various budget scenarios.

In an embodiment the application can identify and prioritize which sewer basins of a particular municipality need infiltration and inflow repair first. Historical flow data can be loaded for each sewer main and linked against the historical rainfall data for a particular sewer basin. Flow data can be loaded as time series data into the platform and linked to the collection point on the sewer main for such data. If no historical data is available flow sensors linked to a particular location in the sewer main may be hooked into server platform going forward such that flow sensor data may be collected and stored by server platform e.g. in spatial database . This data can be used to identify either the quantity increase or the percentage increase in flow during storm events matched against that sewer basin s rainfall for the events. The application can then visually represent each sewer main s percentage increase by colors overlaid on the sewer mains within the application s virtual map. This data can then be used to identify the priority sewer basins whose mains and private laterals need inspection and testing. The application may allow the drawing of geospatial polygons on the map to permanently identify the boundaries of each sewer basin.

In an embodiment the application takes the data collected which helps to identify priority sewer basins with severe infiltration and inflow problems and creates master projects for inspection and repair of each identified priority sewer basin. Specifically the application has unique functionality which allows master projects to be created. This can dramatically ease the workflow issues associated with running a major sewer basin repair project and ending water infiltration and inflow during storm events. One of the biggest issues for these types of projects is identifying the involved private property owners whose laterals need inspection requesting permission and a time from those owners to come on their property to inspect and then coordinating the inspections themselves. Inspection results have to then be assessed action plans determined and carried out and post repair inspections performed and contractor bills approved for payment. Current practice is that all of those steps are carried out manually. As a first step the sewer basin geospatial boundaries created previously can be used to automatically match against geospatial cadastral property boundaries resulting in the automatic identification of all property owners connected to the involved sewer lines. The application can then generate a whole mailing campaign to all involved property owners notifying them of the project of the reasons for the project e.g. stopping basement backups and SSOs and asking them for permission to enter their parcels to test the sewer laterals underneath for leaks. As property owners agree to inspection the colors of parcel boundaries on the map can change alerting the inspection contractor that he or she can proceed with inspection on a particular parcel. Each project owner s approval of an inspection may increment the inspection budget. Inspection data that can be loaded into server platform and attached to either a main or lateral is not only video footage but also other testing method results such at those from dyes smoke tests ultrasonic or electro scan testing. The sewer district or municipality can then based on the inspection results budget within server platform appropriate repair actions for each fault and generate the involved work orders. The whole workflow can be then be managed geospatially online all the way to post repair inspection and signoff on contractor invoices.

Using the application best practice infrastructure management can easily be implemented across a whole sewer network in an incredibly efficient manner cutting significant labor and time out of every step of sewer infrastructure management. Each sewer basin or sewer main and or lateral can be set up in the project section of the application for periodic inspection e.g. video inspection . Based on inspections any main junction lateral and or manhole can be set up with location based work orders for cleaning or fault repairs as necessary. A complete historical record of videos segment and individual fault condition ratings segments cleaned faults repaired sections with root growth sections with FOG etc. are all online and searchable geospatially and by multiple other query conditions. Extensive performance reports can be run such as how many miles of inspections this year versus last year how many miles of root control how many faults grouted how many feet relined etc. If flow sensors have been interfaced with the platform then flows can be compared from the post repair timeframe against the pre repair timeframe adjusted for comparable rainfall. Overall metrics on sewer overflow reduction can be generated and shown as percentage colors on a virtual map of sewer basins between time points selected by a time slider or other input. This can be further broken down into root or FOG caused overflow reductions. Overall miles of sewer assessed and condition rated can be generated and shown on a virtual map. For example each sewer segment may be shown in a color associated with its last measured condition if measured within the last three years.

In addition in an embodiment the disclosed application allows the ability to easily and systematically use cloud based functionality to 

Systematically use and manage inspections e.g. CCTV inspections to assess the current condition of all sewage infrastructure 

Schedule and monitor work orders generated from inspection e.g. for repairs cleaning root removal or FOG removal 

Use standardized best practice processes to systematically analyze pipe and joint defects for decisions as to whether to repair line or replace the segment or take no action 

Use collected preliminary condition data along with analysis of age material and diameter classes to project system wide needs for coming years and to set up appropriate budget assumptions and or

The following list comprises some exemplary non exhaustive aspects of certain embodiments of the disclosed systems and methods 

 1 Using algorithms and artificial intelligence to automatically analyze CAD tiles and or shape files to determine what state plane coordinate system or projection they might be in and automatically re project them into a geospatial coordinate system e.g. WGS while simultaneously loading each layer received into a geospatial platform as a new future ground truth layer. Layers already in WGS format may also be loaded with a corresponding new future ground truth layer. This may have the commercial advantage of cutting down a municipality s or contractor s labor costs for getting all of the disparate data silos into the first stage of rudimentary geospatially aligned format.

 2 Using algorithms to receive highly accurate latitude longitude and elevation coordinates collected in the field for infrastructure assets e.g. manholes and other environmental attributes and based on those collected coordinates automatically and continually adjust on each involved ground truth layer both the matching infrastructure points or environmental attributes and the related infrastructure points loaded from CAD tiles and or shape files to more and more precise alignment with ground truth physical reality.

 3 Using algorithms to receive highly accurate latitude longitude and elevation coordinates collected in the field for infrastructure assets e.g. manholes and other environmental attributes and based on those collected coordinates automatically and continually adjust points on aerial imagery tiles to more and more precise alignment with physical reality.

 4 The application may maintain four complete dimensions for infrastructure assets and all associated attributes. These four dimensions are latitude longitude elevation and time. Associated attributes may include without limitation measured asset condition deterioration valuation measured environmental attributes expected asset life repair history work orders planned prevention or repair activities budgets actual expenditures deterioration modeling etc.

 5 Advanced temporal geo polymorphism functionality can allow four dimensional queries to act like a four dimensional lasso in time and space to capture all data about assets that share selected attributes in that selected slice of time and space from all relevant ground truth layers in use.

 6 During or after the loading of an inspection video or other form of digital inspection data if highly accurate geospatial locations have been collected for the manholes at the ends of the inspected sewer segment the application may automatically derive and assign highly accurate geospatial coordinates to one or more or all of the points of the length of the pipe segment between the two manholes as well as assigning corresponding geospatial locations to one or more or all of the frames of the inspection video. This enables faults lateral connections priority repairs etc. to all be shown as symbols overlaid on a base mapping layer. Geospatial locations can also be automatically assigned to other forms of sewer inspection such as electromagnetic or any other kind of electrical or ultrasonic form of continuous pipeline inspection data.

 7 The application may leverage geospatial fault locations and the time dimension against other attribute data in order to support more effective and more efficient sewer pipe management. For example the ability of the application to automatically assign geospatial extents to CCTV observed root growth or FOG areas of a sewer pipe allows an automatic virtual overlay of multiple years of observed problems to visually represent those stretches of sewer pipe that consistently need extra attention and cleaning.

 8 The application may have the ability in addition to loading CAD and or shape files quickly and easily from a particular source and transforming those files into initial first stage rudimentary WGS geospatial alignment to concurrently load any associated attribute data from those CAD tiles and or shape files into a universal attribute system that allows consistent presentation of attribute data on one or more mapping layers as well as comparison of a sewer system s attribute data against that from another sewer system even if their original formats differed.

 9 The application can receive videos or other form of digital inspection data once they are loaded to an FTP site and or take them directly from an inspection vehicle e.g. CCTV filming truck and using algorithms take that raw video and automatically prepare it for hosting within the cloud in what is known as a high availability content distribution network. Each video may be prepped for viewing at normal speed as well as at various accelerated speeds. In addition each video segment at the video segment identifier level may be linked geospatially to its corresponding sewer main or sewer lateral segment. Each video segment can also be encoded with security partitions that allow only users with the right security settings e.g. roles and permissions to view that particular video for that particular municipality or other region. The automation provided by this functionality can drive down the costs of this whole process making it more affordable to municipalities.

 10 Using the application when reviewing video inspections or other condition data gathered about the pipelines engineers may be able to with a single click attach a work order to either a specific fault or to a whole pipeline segment manhole lateral etc. This work order can be linked to preexisting purchase orders for such repair work. Contractors can receive a queue of work orders for action with each work order shown on a virtual map provided by the application as a symbol for purposes of efficient scheduling. Each work order can also have an embedded link that takes the user directly to the correct location e.g. frame on the inspection video or other inspection data set to view the fault.

 11 Using the application an engineer or other user may be allowed if wanting collaboration from another party on reviewing a particular video shot or other inspection data to click on a button and instantly send an email or other message to that other party with a deep link to that particular frame on one of the sewer inspection videos in order to get the recipient s opinion on a particular fault depicted on the video or to point out something in that particular video frame.

 12 Using the application an engineer or other user may be allowed if wanting to share the results from a particular query within the application with another party to click on a button and instantly send an email or other message to that other party with a deep link to that particular query and its results list. The locations of all assets and or faults in the query results window may automatically be shown on the application provided virtual map.

 13 Using the application users e.g. city engineers or contractors can attach fully fleshed out project plans to any infrastructure asset such as a pipeline segment or to any identified fault itself as revealed by CCTV inspection or other inspection modality. Each project task and subtask of the project plan can be linked to separate geospatial locations. Project locations can then be displayed geospatially on an application provided map with additional filtering provided by a time slider or other time input.

 14 Future project plans for sewer infrastructure repair or construction can be shared via a module of the application with other city departments and with outside utilities so that future potentially overlapping work can be coordinated costs shared and neighborhood disruption minimized. Because all projects tasks and subtasks can have geospatial locations and time periods associated with them future projects can all be displayed on a virtual map and filtered with a time slider or other time input to a particular slice of time. Conflicts can be visually seen. In addition the application may comprise temporal geo polymorphism functionality that has been customized to automatically search within the time and space dimensions of the application and to automatically detect all overlaps between projects and to automatically send alerts to the project s owners.

 15 The application may comprise functionality that allows users e.g. city engineers to manage the awarding of inspection and or maintenance contracts for the sewer infrastructure system. Time constrained logins can be set up allowing bidders to see the extent of the sewer network to be inspected and to see the inspection videos or other inspection data detailing faults to be repaired. Bid documents and any other necessary documents concerning the infrastructure can be made available online to potential bidders. A very sophisticated user login security system can be customized to allow and restrict access to only certain geopolitical boundaries certain information customized geospatial selections of infrastructure or certain selected layers of infrastructure.

 16 The application may comprise or interface with a predictive modeling engine that models various maintenance strategies of the involved sewer assets and the various budget scenarios so that they may be visually overlaid on a virtual map of the involved city s sewer mains in order to more clearly show where dollars should be spent in what time frame and what the outcomes for such spending will be in terms of condition ratings at a certain point in the future. These visual outputs may be controlled by time sliders or other time inputs. What if scenarios can be run under this model. For example if the budget is reduced 200 000 this year what is the impact on sewer main condition 4 years from now Color coded results for each sewer line segment may be displayed on the map as well as output in one or more results windows. This is extraordinarily powerful technology that may allow city engineers or contractors to quickly assess the strengths and weaknesses of various maintenance strategies and to match them against various budget scenarios.

 17 The platform can be uniquely used to identify and prioritize which sewer basins of a particular municipality need infiltration and inflow repair first. Historical flow data can be loaded for each sewer main linked against the historical rainfall data for a particular sewer basin. Flow data can be loaded as time series data into the platform linked to the collection point on the sewer main for such data. The platform may allow flow sensors linked to a particular location in the sewer main to be hooked into the platform. That data can then be used to identify either the quantity increase or the percentage increase in flow during storm events matched against that sewer basin s rainfall for that event. The application can then visually represent each sewer main s percentage increase by colors overlaid on a virtual map of the sewer mains within the application. This data can then be used to identify the priority sewer basins whose mains and private laterals need inspection and testing.

 18 Taking the sewer basins identified as having severe infiltration and inflow problems the application can comprise functionality to create master projects specifically designed to automate the whole workflow process necessary for the efficient inspection and repair of each sewer basin. Among other functionality the special master projects can generate the whole communication campaign first identifying the involved private property owners whose laterals need inspection then requesting permission and a time from those owners to come on their property to inspect and finally coordinating the inspections themselves.

As mentioned above one or more of user systems may comprise inspection equipment such as video inspection equipment. For instance in the traditional CCTV inspection process a truck comprising CCTV video inspection equipment is driven to a sewer infrastructure asset such as a manhole. The video inspection equipment includes an inspection vehicle robot or dolly generally comprising a mounted camera. The inspection dolly may be tethered to equipment such as a computing device recording device and or television screen and remotely controlled by a worker e.g. through the tether or radio waves . In practice the inspection dolly is placed into a pipe segment via one manhole and driven or otherwise guided through the pipe segment to another manhole. During the inspection inspection data e.g. image or video data is sent to the equipment controlled by the worker. The worker generally views the data in real time and records observations. The worker may also rotate or otherwise control movement of the camera on the inspection dolly to inspect pipe sections of interest e.g. suspected faults . The data is also generally recorded. In many cases the data is video data that is recorded on a Video Home System VHS videocassette using a videocassette recorder VCR . In some cases the data is recorded onto a DVD or recorded onto a hard drive and subsequently burned onto a DVD. The inspection video may be automatically or manually captioned with data relevant to the inspection e.g. asset identifier time traveled feet traveled etc. . Typically the inspection worker will enter data into a computing device e.g. of the inspection equipment or at the contractor s office which may be executing proprietary inspection software in order to generate a National Association of Sewer Service Companies NASSCO standardized report. Examples of such inspection software include PipeTech Wincan8 and Granite . The VHS or DVD and the NASSCO report are then mailed or otherwise manually delivered to a city engineer for review and quality control.

In an embodiment the disclosed application supports a more efficient inspection process. The disclosed application may comprise a server application and a client application. The client application may be installed on an existing computing device of standard inspection equipment along with proprietary inspection software or a separate computing device e.g. handheld device which is communicatively coupled with a computing device of the inspection equipment. The client application may be interfaced with the proprietary inspection software e.g. via one or more APIs or otherwise receive inspection data from the proprietary inspection software e.g. via data exports or a data stream . Alternatively the client application may comprise or be integrated with the inspection software. The computing device may comprise a transmitter or transceiver that can communicate with a wireless network e.g. cellular radio network wide area network or wireless local area network or an intermediate device such as a hotspot or other access point which is able to communicate with the wireless network.

The client application receives inspection data from the inspection software and or inspection equipment including the record of the inspection e.g. video recording observations e.g. spoken and or typed made by the inspection worker and any other data collected by the inspection equipment or input by the inspection worker. In an embodiment the client application or a separate client application may also allow workers to collect GPS data e.g. longitude latitude and elevation coordinates and associate the GPS data to specific infrastructure assets e.g. manholes . All of the data may be uploaded by the client application to the server application for storage on server platform .

In addition either the client application or server application may perform processing on the data prior to storage. For example the client application may provide data normalization archiving automatic upload and or automatic connection features. Data normalization refers to the process of converting data from a proprietary format e.g. produced by any one of one or more proprietary inspection software applications into a standard format. Archiving refers to the process of converting the normalized data into the proper file structure. For example in an embodiment all data is converted into a Microsoft Access Database MDB format or some other database format prior to be uploaded to the server application. Automatic uploading refers to the process of automatically uploading the collected data to server platform e.g. without the necessity of human intervention . Finally the automatic connection feature refers to the client application automatically attempting to provide a persistent connection to server platform e.g. by attempting to connect to server platform when the client application is started and or after a connection has been lost .

In an embodiment since the objective of proprietary inspection software is often to produce a final output rather than an intermediate output the proprietary format produced by proprietary inspection software may not be easily normalized. Markup output such as XML output would be desirable since fields within the output could be easily distinguished and imported. However the proprietary PipeTech inspection software for instance produces a PDF output from which it is not as easy to derive individual fields as well as a proprietary database file PTD and a MPG file comprising the inspection video. Accordingly the client or server application may comprise an extraction module to normalize this data. The extraction module extracts fields for sewer inspection reports contained within output such as PDF output and uses these extracted fields to automatically reorganize e.g. copy or move a collection of proprietary inspections e.g. PTD PDF MPG into a consistently organized archive. For instance using PipeTech as an example the extraction module may extract a work order number and media identifier from the PDF output and use the work order number and media identifier to organize the PipeTech inspections into a consistent directory structure. As one example the work order number may be used in the name of a directory for all related inspection data and the media identifier may be used in the name of a subdirectory that stores the corresponding media. In addition the extraction module may extract sewer pipe inspection information e.g. a footage counter from a captioned video e.g. MPG FLV AVI via optical character recognition OCR .

In an embodiment the client application uploads data to server platform using a virtual private network rsync protocol and or FTP. However it should be understood that additional or alternative protocols may be used. The inspection data may be uploaded in real time such that inspection data e.g. inspection video data is available through server platform in real time as the inspection is taking place. This provides the ability for real time collaboration during an inspection for example between the workers in the field and consulting engineers in their home or office.

However in some circumstances the wireless network may not be available or suitable for the data transfer. For example for an entire video the upload speeds or costs on a cellular radio network may not be acceptable. Accordingly in an embodiment the client application is configured to queue data until a connection with a suitable network e.g. a local area network is established. Once a suitable wireless network is in range the client application may automatically connect with the network and initiate uploading of data in the queue to server platform .

In an embodiment the server application on server platform may comprise an uploaded data importer module which provides one or more user interfaces enabling a user to navigate a repository of uploaded inspection files select one or more files from the repository for processing and or importation and view a history and completion state of importations of inspection data. The server application on server platform can process inspection data received from the client application to integrate it into the existing databases for viewing and reporting. For instance the server application may process an inspection video into the appropriate format for streaming to a web based user interface as well as generate and store additional versions of the inspection video at varying playback speeds. In addition the server application may automatically process the inspection data to prepare a NASSCO report which can be automatically sent e.g. as a PDF or HTML interface or otherwise notified e.g. via a link to a supervising engineer. This avoids the time and cost of the inspection contractor having to manually create and deliver videos and reports to the supervising engineer.

For various reasons it may be difficult for an inspection contractor or municipality to immediately transition from the conventional inspection process to the disclosed process with automated video delivery and reporting. Accordingly server platform and or a provided client application may support an incremental process whereby a plurality of contractors and or municipalities may utilize the system in differing stages of automation. For instance in a first stage the client application may provide structured data archiving to reduce manual effort. In a second stage the client application may provide inspection data uploading for faster delivery. In a third stage the client application may provide automated archiving and uploading from an inspection truck to reduce manual effort. In a fourth stage the client and or server application may allow exportation of a database file e.g. MDB file so that contractors may more easily meet specification requirements. In a fifth stage server platform may perform automatic work order processing to provide faster payment processing. In a sixth stage server platform may provide contractor analytics. In a seventh stage the contractor or municipality can abandon hard copies of videos and inspection reports altogether. In an eighth stage server platform may provide third party application and services integration. Finally in a ninth stage the municipality may transition to complete automated management of the inspection workflow through server platform including the selection and assignment of inspection sites automatic collection and integration of inspection data and the identification development and review of inspection reports e.g. NASSCO reports .

Server platform may be cloud based and provides instant online access anytime and anywhere to a sewer infrastructure management application that stores and provides access to and analysis for sewer management projects such as sewer inspection projects. Example user interfaces provided by a web application on server platform will now be described with reference to .

A user may click on one of rows or an input e.g. icon associated with one of rows to view detailed information about the contract corresponding to that row. A user may also add a contract using a contract wizard tool by clicking on contract wizard tool icon . The contract detail view and contract wizard tool may be similar in function and design. illustrate embodiments of a contract detail window and or wizard which may comprise one or more tabs. In the illustrated embodiment contract detail window comprises an overview tab a roles tab a location tab and an attachments tab . illustrates an embodiment of overview tab of contract detail window . Overview tab provides the status of the contract identifies the client identifies the contractor and provides the start and end dates as well as an optional description. One or more of these fields may be editable. illustrates an embodiment of roles tab which provides information on active users associated with the contract and their roles and or level of activity within the particular contract.

According to an embodiment location tab may comprise a drawing wizard as illustrated in . Location tab comprises instructions for designating a location associated with the contract such as a geographical region comprising infrastructure assets that are to be maintained or repaired under the contract. Each contract can have a location or area defined for it. Location tab also comprises an input e.g. icon which allows the user to initiate selection of the location. When a user initiates selection of the contract location or area the user may be returned to a view of interactive virtual map as shown in . A drawing tool may also be provided. In an embodiment drawing tool is operated by adding a single click or touch e.g. from an input device such as a mouse or touch screen interface to add a new point to a polygon overlaid on virtual map and a double click or touch to close the polygon when complete. Once a polygon has been selected a user may select a finish input to return to location tab of contract detail window or wizard . The selected polygon may be converted into a set of geospatial coordinate points and stored in association with the contract. The geospatial coordinates of one or more infrastructure assets can be compared to the geospatial coordinates of the polygon to determine whether the infrastructure assets are within the boundaries of the polygon and therefore subject to the contract.

In addition each row in inspection list tool may comprise a locate input and an inspection review input . If a user clicks on locate input the location of the inspection associated with the row will be identified on interactive virtual map . As illustrated in inspection details window can be shown with a pointer to the location of the relevant asset on virtual map . Inspection details window can comprise inspection data such as PSR number pipe size rating etc.

If a user clicks on inspection review input an inspection review window may be displayed. illustrates an embodiment of an inspection review window . Inspection review window may have one or more tabs. For example inspection review window may comprise an overview tab a history tab an attachments tab and a notes tab . Overview tab may comprise one or more information areas. In this example overview tab comprises a pipe details pane a PACP data pane a ratings pane an inspection details pane an observations pane and a media player . Pipe details pane comprises pipe information such as PSR number installation date material pipe length street name etc. Pipe information may be imported from shape files as described above. PACP data pane comprises PACP information such as structural ratings operations and maintenance ratings and overall ratings. PACP certified inspections allow for software to issue these ratings on the inspected pipe sections. Ratings pane comprises a star rating which may be initially based on the overall index shown in PACP data pane . In an embodiment a user may change the rating by clicking on a star of their choosing in ratings pane . Inspection details pane comprises inspection information such as inspection date length of pipe surveyed direction of inspection cost follow up status etc. These inspection details may have been acquired for example from inspection data uploaded by an inspection worker in the field e.g. using the client application disclosed above . In addition observations pane may comprise observations made by the inspection worker. An observation may comprise any observation about the pipe including faults and may be associated with a distance value e.g. in feet . The distance value represents the distance from the beginning of the pipe segment being inspected at which the observation was made.

Media player comprises a media viewing area two or more speed options an image capture input and a locate input . Viewing area displays the media playback as well as standard playback controls e.g. play stop time slider volume mute full screen view etc. . Speed options allow the user to playback the video at different speeds e.g. 1 2 4 8 etc. . The default speed may be 1 or may be a user setting or preference. Image capture input allows a user to capture a snapshot of the video being played. Specifically if a user clicks image capture input whichever video frame is being displayed at the time of the user s click will be extracted. The user may save the extracted frame to his or her computing device and or send the frame to a recipient or otherwise share the frame with another user. Locate input is similar to locate input described above which identifies the location on a virtual map at which the media was collected e.g. as shown in . In an embodiment an interaction e.g. click with locate input will result in the user being shown the location of the particular segment of pipe corresponding to the current frame of the media being shown in media viewing area i.e. the location corresponding to geospatial coordinates associated with the segment of pipe at the foot measurement being shown in media viewing area .

Referring again to layers tab allows users to select which layer or layers they would like to view. Each layer may be listed with an associated checkbox radio button or other input which allows a user to toggle each layer on visible or off hidden or not visible . The layers available to a user may depend on the user s security settings as well as the scale of virtual map . For example if the virtual map is currently displaying a large geographical area certain layers e.g. a layer identifying all pipe segments may comprise too much data to display on map . Layers which are not available may be grayed out or not listed until they are made available e.g. by the user being granted permissions or by a user zooming into an area until the corresponding data in the layer has been reduced to an extent that it can be displayed .

As an illustrative non limiting example the layers may comprise a layer for mainline pipe rating a layer for pipe inspections a layer for manholes a layer for lateral pipes a layer for mainline pipes and or a layer for contracts. However it should be understood that more or fewer layers may be provided and that different layers may be provided. Initially layers may be sourced from the CAD or shape files during importation. In an embodiment a user may define one or more new arbitrary layers that will be stored and made available to the user and or made available or shared with other users. For example a user may define a layer by specifying one or more filter criteria such as owner identifier contract identifier contractor identifier status date or dates installed inspected or repaired or any other common asset or inspection attribute. Accordingly the definition of new layers may be viewed as an extension of the filter functionality disclosed above. For example when saving a filter the user may be given the option to save the filter as layer which would then appear in layers tab .

In an embodiment layers may be arranged hierarchically. For instance if a user turns on the mainline pipe ratings layer the layer listing may be expanded to provide separate child or sub layers for each rating e.g. one star two star three star four star and five star . Each of these sub layers is an individual layer that may also be toggled on and off for example using an associated checkbox radio button or other input. A layer may also comprise color coding. For instance each rating layer under the mainline pipe ratings layer may be associated with a different color. For instance a one star rating may be associated with green two star with yellow three star with orange four start with dark orange and five star with red. Then each pipe segment in the layer that is overlaid over virtual map may be represented in the color of its associated rating. For example a representation of a pipe segment that has a five star rating may be displayed over virtual map in red a representation of a pipe segment that has a one star rating may be displayed in green and so on. In an embodiment each user of the web application may specify different styles for each layer. In an embodiment a user may edit and save the style of each layer according to the user s own preference. illustrates an embodiment of a layer style window which may be utilized to change the colors and adjust the line width used for a particular layer such as the ratings layers discussed above.

Referring again to time slider tab allows a user to filter data by a selecting a beginning date and ending date which together define a time range. For example a user may click on the displayed timeline to set beginning and ending dates as well as slide a range defined by two dates by clicking and dragging the defined range left or right along the displayed timeline. The time slider may act just like any other filter criteria and a particular time range defined by the time slider may be saved as a layer. When the time slider is utilized only data in the selected one or more layers that meet the defined time range will be displayed on virtual map .

As mentioned above server platform may provide security for restricting access to certain data modules and or functions. In an embodiment server platform implements three security tiers access control authorization and permissions. A user is given access to platform and is authorized to see certain data and use certain modules and has one or more permissions to use certain functions. Server platform may employ a central repository for user account information which is managed from an administration application. A central authentication system CAS server uses the central repository to authenticate users centrally to all the application environments supported by server platform .

When a user attempts to log in to an environment the application negotiates a login with the CAS server and grants access to the user to one or more of the environments. During the authentication process the application may also derive or retrieve other information about the user such as full name basic contact details employer and or global security groups and roles. The global security groups and roles are used to authorize a user to the application. Once a user is in the application the groups and roles are used again to authorize a user for certain application modules. Once in a certain application module the user is mapped to application specific roles and permissions. A permission refers to a fine grained security control that represents a permission to perform a certain function or functions e.g. a permission may be can save work orders . In an embodiment each data object returned from spatial database may be associated with a per object bit string or other data representation representing the permissions required for access to that data object.

In one embodiment of a security model as a general rule access to data by a user is denied by default for any data that the user does not own. Authorization may be determined by groups roles and permissions as well as participation relationship and jurisdiction constraints e.g. a user s ownership of data a user s relationship to another party a user s participation with an entity a user s relationship to another party that participates in an entity a user s jurisdiction a user s relationship with another party with a jurisdiction etc. .

Groups roles and permissions refer to structures that are used to define authorization at various levels of granularity. A group is a collection of roles and a role is a collection of permissions. Groups roles and permissions are collected into sets by security contexts. A security context comprises all the groups roles and permissions for a particular application module or domain. For example a work orders context contains all the groups roles and permissions for a work orders module. Roles and permissions are used for authorization whereas groups are just means for collecting roles and assigning them quickly to a user. When a user is mapped to a group the user gets all the roles granted to that group along with the permissions granted for those roles. A user can be assigned a group role or permission directly or indirectly via a collection e.g. a user can gain a permission by being granted a role that has that permission .

Data access may be governed by a combination of groups roles and permissions and participation relationship and jurisdiction constraints. Participation relationship and jurisdiction constraints refer to access granted to data by virtue of ownership of the data a relationship with the owner or jurisdiction of the data or participation in an activity or jurisdiction represented or managed by the data. Jurisdiction refers to a spatial area in which a party has the authority to operate or delegate authority to operate in to other parties. A user has direct access to data that it owns. However only a small number of users may own data directly. Most users may access data via the user s participation in data e.g. a contract or relationship with another user . Example data authorization schemes may include without limitation a user s ownership of data e.g. by default users can see data owned by their employer a user s relationship to another user e.g. approved subcontractors for a contractor can see projects that the contractor owns a user s participation with an entity e.g. a user working on a contract as contract manager can see those contracts a user s relationship to another user that participates in an entity e.g. employee users of an employer user can see the contracts that are being worked on by other employee users a user s jurisdiction e.g. a user can view data within a particular municipality s boundary a user s relationship with another user within a jurisdiction e.g. a user can view data in a municipality s boundary if the user is an approved contractor etc. Authorization can be granted to users for data entities e.g. contracts work orders etc. second class assets i.e. an asset that is data only such as contracts work orders etc. first class assets i.e. an asset that is fully managed under the asset management life cycle and or asset catalogues.

In an embodiment security settings e.g. one or more groups roles and permissions and or participation relationship and jurisdiction constraints may be associated with one or more layers described above. For example a user e.g. asset owner inspection contractor manager could open up access to additional users by granting them access to the record contained within a saved filter or layer. This could be used to create temporary access to a range of inspections for instance to support a bid package.

In an embodiment server platform is a platform for more than the disclosed application. For example the disclosed application may simply be one of a plurality of application modules that are served by server platform . All of these application modules may interface with and utilize spatial database and or map server to provide functionality based on the geospatial based infrastructure data stored in spatial database .

Server platform may provide runtime configuration an administrative console multi level logging error reporting and or state dumps. Runtime configuration refers to a mechanism whereby an application module can be configured at startup to specific environment configurations. For example applications in production access production services on servers that are different than those supporting development or test services. The administrative console provides the ability to execute code in the runtime application. Multi level logging refers to the ability to log information at different levels of interest e.g. debug error etc. and display that information inside the application or push it back to the server at runtime. Error reporting refers to a part of the logging framework that is always on. If severe errors occur in the client and or the server they can be logged centrally with stack traces and context information.

In addition server platform may provide user interface modules which are separate from the application modules. A user interface module provides a specific modular view e.g. street view whereas an application module provides application specific views and functions and may use a number of user interface modules.

While embodiments herein have primarily been disclosed with reference to video inspections it should be understood that other types of inspections may be supported as well. Newer technologies such as laser scanning and 360 panoramic imagery may also be supported by the disclosed application. For instance media player may be configured to play or otherwise present image data collected by laser scanning and panoramic imaging.

In an embodiment users may be provided the ability to create generic records and notes about individual points on virtual map . These records or notes would not have to be stored in a specific asset or inspection layer but could be recorded against a point line or polygon and broadly categorized. This allows field workers to systematize a lot of their knowledge of the applicable infrastructure e.g. sewer infrastructure thereby making it available to other users.

Currently there are hundreds of different PACP observation codes but no categorizations rankings or prioritizations of these codes. In an embodiment PACP observation codes could be categorized rated or prioritized to create filters and layers. These filters or layers can be used to identify critical types of faults and filter data by groups of PACP codes without users having to remember every PACP code to include in a filter every time they need to view such data.

In an embodiment server platform may be compliant not only with PACP but also with the metadata requirements for inspections under the Lateral Assessment and Certification Program LACP and Manhole Assessment and Certification Program MACP .

As discussed above the disclosed application may allow automated NASSCO reporting. In addition the disclosed application may also automate other reporting requirements. For example currently water utility operators in California are required to submit SSO reports electronically into a state wide database. Typically operators retain no more than a paper copy of such submissions. The disclosed application can be used to automate these mandatory reporting requirements and digitalize operators record keeping.

In an embodiment server platform may comprise one or more public APIs which allow third party systems e.g. third party system to link to data within server platform from within their own platforms. Server platform may also utilize one or more APIs to access data e.g. asset data work order data etc. from third party systems data sources and . Such third party data may be displayed as one or more overlays on virtual map within the disclosed application.

In an embodiment server platform provides a bid management module that leverages the disclosed contract management functions to manage a process whereby multiple contractors can bid on a potential contract e.g. for one or more inspections or other sewage management functions . In this embodiment an inspection could be linked to both a contract record and a bid record.

Although the disclosed embodiments have been primarily described with respect to a sewer infrastructure it should be understood that data for other infrastructures may be imported into spatial database and displayed as one or more layers on virtual map as well as integrated into the other disclosed functions and applications of server platform . Examples of such infrastructure include without limitation roads sidewalks water distribution lines gas distribution lines electrical distribution lines and the like. In addition other non infrastructure data may also be imported into spatial database and integrated into the disclosed functions and applications of server platform such as property records and boundaries easements and the like.

The system preferably includes one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor . Examples of processors which may be used with system include without limitation the Pentium processor Core i7 processor and Xeon processor all of which are available from Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif.

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the system . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

System preferably includes a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor such as one or more of the functions and or modules discussed above. It should be understood that programs stored in the memory and executed by processor may be written and or compiled according to any suitable language including without limitation C C Java JavaScript Perl Visual Basic .NET and the like. The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include an internal memory and or a removable medium for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive other optical drive a flash memory drive etc. The removable medium is read from and or written to in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD SD card etc.

The removable storage medium is a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data. The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the system for execution by the processor .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the system . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage media and communication interface which allow software and data to be transferred from an external medium to the system .

System may include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between system and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to system from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a built in network adapter network interface card NIC Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter Universal Serial Bus USB network adapter modem a network interface card NIC a wireless data card a communications port an infrared interface an IEEE 1394 fire wire or any other device capable of interfacing system with a network or another computing device.

Communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals are preferably provided to communication interface via a communication channel . In one embodiment the communication channel may be a wired or wireless network or any variety of other communication links. Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any non transitory computer readable storage media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the system . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including internal memory removable medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These non transitory computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the system .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into the system by way of removable medium I O interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the system in the form of electrical communication signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

In an embodiment I O interface provides an interface between one or more components of system and one or more input and or output devices. Example input devices include without limitation keyboards touch screens or other touch sensitive devices biometric sensing devices computer mice trackballs pen based pointing devices and the like. Examples of output devices include without limitation cathode ray tubes CRTs plasma displays light emitting diode LED displays liquid crystal displays LCDs printers vacuum florescent displays VFDs surface conduction electron emitter displays SEDs field emission displays FEDs and the like.

The system also includes optional wireless communication components that facilitate wireless communication over a voice and over a data network. The wireless communication components comprise an antenna system a radio system and a baseband system . In the system radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system may comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system may comprise one or more radios that are configured to communicate over various frequencies. In one embodiment the radio system may combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information then baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to a speaker. The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from a microphone. These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and may pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the antenna system where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the processor . The central processing unit has access to data storage areas and . The central processing unit is preferably configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the memory or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the data storage area or in secondary memory or executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described. For example data storage areas may include various software modules not shown .

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules functions and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

Any of the software components described herein may take a variety of forms. For example a component may be a stand alone software package or it may be a software package incorporated as a tool in a larger software product. It may be downloadable from a network for example a website as a stand alone product or as an add in package for installation in an existing software application. It may also be available as a client server software application as a web enabled software application and or as a mobile application.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly not limited.

