---

title: Thermal analysis for tiered semiconductor structure
abstract: Among other things, one or more systems and techniques for analyzing a tiered semiconductor structure are provided. One or more segments are defined for the tiered semiconductor structure. The one or more segments are iteratively evaluated during electrical simulation while taking into account thermal properties to determine power metrics for the segments. The power metrics are used to determine temperatures generated by integrated circuitry within the segments. Responsive to a segment having a temperature above a temperature threshold, a temperature action plan, such as providing an alert or inserting one or more thermal release structures into the segment, is implemented. In this way, the one or more segments are iteratively evaluated to identify and resolve thermal and reliability issues.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09659115&OS=09659115&RS=09659115
owner: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED
number: 09659115
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20131219
---
A tiered semiconductor structure such as a three dimensional 3D stacked complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS structure comprises one or more tiers within which semiconductor structures such as integrated circuits are formed. A bonding material such as silicon oxide or other dielectric material is used to bond tiers together within the tiered semiconductor structure.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

One or more systems and techniques for analyzing a tiered semiconductor structure are provided herein. The tiered semiconductor structure comprises one or more tiers that are bonded together using a bonding material such as a bonding dielectric or oxide. The bonding material has relatively high thermal resistance and relatively low thermal conductance and thus the bonding material induces temperature differentiations between tiers. In some embodiments where a top tier comprises a heat dissipation device such as a fan or heat sink and a bottom tier does not comprise a heat dissipation device the top tier dissipates heat through the heat dissipation device but the bottom tier is restricted from dissipating heat to the top tier for dissipation by the heat dissipation device. The bottom tier is restricted from dissipating heat due to the bonding material between the top tier and the bottom tier restricting heat transfer from the bottom tier to the top tier. Accordingly as provided herein thermal analysis electrical analysis and reliability analysis are implemented during simulation of the tiered semiconductor structure to take into account thermal properties and thermal behavior within the tiered semiconductor structure. In some embodiments alerts are provided for temperatures exceeding a threshold. In some embodiments thermal release structures such as in tier vias are inserted into the tiered semiconductor structure for thermal release. In some embodiments re do Place Route of one or more electrical structures within the tiered semiconductor structure is performed to address temperature issues. In this way temperature issues are identified and addressed based upon the thermal properties and thermal behavior in order to mitigate thermal and reliability issues thus improving design and simulation for tiered semiconductor structures.

A method of analyzing a tiered semiconductor structure is illustrated in . In some embodiments a tiered semiconductor structure comprises a first tier and a second tier as illustrated in . It is appreciated that the tiered semiconductor structure can comprise any number of tiers and that merely two tiers are illustrated for simplicity. The first tier is bonded to the second tier by a bonding layer such as a dielectric material or an oxide material having a relatively high thermal resistance and a relatively low thermal conductivity. The first tier comprises a first semiconductor structure and the second tier comprises a second semiconductor structure . The first semiconductor structure and the second semiconductor structure generate heat during operation. The bonding layer restricts the second tier from transferring heat generated by the second semiconductor structure to the first tier .

At one or more segments for the tiered semiconductor structure are defined. In some embodiments a segmentation component is configured to define the one or more segments as illustrated in . In some embodiments the segmentation component defines a segment based upon an inter via count such as a number of vias formed through a layer within an area region. In some embodiments the segmentation component defines a segment based upon a device count such as a number of active devices within an area region. In some embodiments the segmentation component defines a segment based upon a metal coverage metric such as an amount or percentage of metal or conductive material within an area region. In this way the segmentation component defines one or more segments based upon at least one of the inter via count the device count the metal coverage metric or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the segmentation component identifies a first area region and a second area region within the tiered semiconductor structure . The segmentation component merges the first area region and the second area region into a segment based upon at least one of an inter via count similarity metric between the first area region and the second area region a device count similarity metric between the first area region and the second area region or a metal coverage similarity metric between the first area region and the second area region. In this way similar area regions are merged into segments.

In some embodiments the segmentation component defines for the first tier a first segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat a second segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat a third segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat a fourth segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat a fifth segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat and a sixth segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat as illustrated in . In some embodiments the segmentation component defines for the second tier a first segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat a second segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat a third segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat a fourth segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat a fifth segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat and a sixth segment comprising integrated circuitry that generates heat as illustrated in .

At a set of thermal properties are determined for the first segment . In some embodiments sets of thermal properties are determined for respective segments of the one or more segments. The set of thermal properties correspond to at least one of thermal resistance thermal impedance or thermal capacitance. In some embodiments the first segment has a thermal resistance and a thermal capacitance which affects how heat is transferred between tiers as illustrated in . In some embodiments the thermal capacitance is determined based upon material properties of the first segment . In some embodiments if the thermal capacitance is below a threshold value then the thermal resistance but not the thermal capacitance is taken into account. In some embodiments the thermal resistance is determined based upon material properties of at least one of the first segment the bonding layer or other segments such as the first segment and the second segment .

At electrical analysis is performed on the first segment . In some embodiments electrical analysis is performed on respective segments of the one or more segments. The electrical analysis is performed based upon at least one of an initial temperature or a time period in order to obtain a first power metric for the first segment . In some embodiments electrical analysis is performed during simulation of the tiered semiconductor structure by probing the first segment according to the initial temperature for the time period to obtain the first power metric. In this way the first power metric is obtained.

At a new temperature is determined for the first segment based upon the first power metric and the set of thermal properties. In some embodiments new temperatures are determined for respective segments of the one or more segments. The new temperature is determined based upon evaluating the set of thermal properties such as at least one of the thermal resistance or the thermal capacitance using at least one of the initial temperature the first power metric or the time period. In some embodiments quasi transient analysis is performed to determine the new temperature. During quasi transient analysis the time period is segmented into one or more time segments. A set of time segment temperatures are calculated for the one or more time segments. The new temperature is determined based upon the set of time segment temperatures.

At the new temperature is utilized to determine a thermal analysis characteristic for the first segment such as whether the new temperature is indicative of the first segment having potential reliability issues due to relatively high temperatures within the first segment . In some embodiments responsive to the new temperature exceeding a temperature threshold an alert is provided such as through a simulation interface used to simulate the tiered semiconductor structure . In some embodiments responsive to the new temperature exceeding the temperature threshold one or more thermal release structures such as an in tier via are inserted into the first segment such as into a layout design for the first segment . In some embodiments a re do Place Route of one or more electrical structures is performed for the first segment . In some embodiments the first segment comprising the one or more thermal release structures is evaluated to determine a second thermal analysis characteristic to determine whether the one or more thermal release structures provide an adequate means to release at least some of the heat created by the integrated circuitry within the first segment .

In some embodiments a reliability component is configured to insert one or more thermal release structures into the tiered semiconductor structure as illustrated by . In some embodiments responsive to a new temperature for the second segment of the first tier being above the temperature threshold the reliability component inserts a first thermal release structure into the second segment in order to facilitate release of heat . Responsive to a new temperature for the fifth segment of the first tier being above the temperature threshold the reliability component inserts a second thermal release structure and a third thermal release structure into the fifth segment in order to facilitate release of heat . Responsive to a new temperature for the sixth segment of the first tier being above the temperature threshold the reliability component inserts a fourth thermal release structure into the sixth segment in order to facilitate release of heat . In this way reliability is improved for the tiered semiconductor structure by identify and resolving thermal and reliability issues.

In some embodiments the one or more segments are iteratively evaluated until at least one segment has a new temperature above a temperature threshold as illustrated in . A set of thermal analysis characteristics comprise an initial temperature such as about 25 C. used to identify a first set of new temperatures for the one or more segments during a first iteration such as about 75 C. for the first segment of the first tier about 86 C. for the first segment of the second tier about 71 C. for the second segment of the first tier about 91 C. for the second segment of the second tier etc. The one or more segments are evaluated using the first set of new temperatures during a second iteration to identify a second set of new temperatures . In some embodiments of performing a second iteration for the first segment of the first tier a second iteration of the electrical analysis is performed on the first segment based upon the new temperature of about 75 C. to obtain a second power metric. A second new temperature of about 80 C. is determined for the first segment based upon the second power metric. In this way the second set of new temperatures is determined for the one or more segments using the first set of new temperatures . In some embodiments a temperature threshold of about 98 C. is specified. A second new temperature of about 100 C. for the second segment of the second tier a second new temperature of about 105 C. for the fifth segment of the second tier and a second new temperature of about 100 C. for the sixth segment of the second tier is identified as exceeding the temperature threshold. Accordingly a thermal action plan is implemented such as providing an alert or inserting one or more thermal release structures into such segments. In this way the one or more segments are iteratively evaluated to identify and resolve thermal and reliability issues.

In some embodiments the one or more segments are iteratively evaluated until temperature convergence is detected as illustrated in . In some embodiments the first set of new temperatures was determined based upon performing a first iteration of evaluating the one or more segments and the second set of new temperatures was determined based upon performing a second iteration of evaluating the one or more segments using the first set of new temperatures e.g. . If temperature convergence is not detected then a third set of new temperatures is determined based upon performing a third iteration of evaluating the one or more segments using the second set of new temperatures . If temperature convergence is not detected then a fourth set of new temperatures is determined based upon performing a fourth iteration of evaluating the one or more segments using the third set of new temperatures . In some embodiments a first temperature convergence is identified for the second segment of the second tier a second temperature convergence is identified for the fifth segment of the second tier and a third temperature convergence is identified for the sixth segment of the second tier where the first temperature convergence the second temperature convergence and the third temperature convergence exceed a temperature threshold such as about 100 C. Accordingly a thermal action plan is implemented such as providing an alert or inserting one or more thermal release structures into such segments. In this way the one or more segments are iteratively evaluated to identify and resolve thermal and reliability issues.

The electrical evaluation component is configured to perform electrical analysis on the first segment based upon at least one of an initial temperature or a time period in order to obtain a power metric . The electrical evaluation component is configured to determine a new temperature for the first segment based upon the power metric and the set of thermal properties . In some embodiments if electrical timing properties identified during the electrical analysis do not satisfy an original design requirement then at least one of an alert or an electrical redesign request is provided. The reliability component is configured to implement a temperature action plan such as providing an alert or inserting one or more thermal release structures into the first segment segments responsive to the new temperature exceeding a temperature threshold. In some embodiments one or more iterations are performed for evaluating the first segment such as until a temperature convergence is identified or the temperature threshold is exceeded. In this way the first segment is iteratively evaluated to identify and resolve thermal and reliability issues.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In an embodiment the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of . In an embodiment the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of or at least some of the exemplary system of . Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In some embodiments computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In some embodiments an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a method for analyzing a tiered semiconductor structure is provided. The method comprises defining one or more segments for a tiered semiconductor structure. The one or more segments comprise a first segment. A set of thermal properties are determined for the first segment. Electrical analysis is performed on the first segment based upon at least one of an initial temperature or a time period to obtain a first power metric. A new temperature is determined for the first segment based upon the first power metric and the set of thermal properties. The new temperature is utilized to determine a thermal analysis characteristic for the first segment.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a system for analyzing a tiered semiconductor structure is provided. The system comprises a thermal evaluation component configured to determine a set of thermal properties for a first segment of a tiered semiconductor structure. The system comprises an electrical evaluation component configured to perform electrical analysis on the first segment based upon at least one of the initial temperature or a time period to obtain a first power metric. The electrical evaluation component is configured to determine a new temperature for the first segment based upon the first power metric and the set of thermal properties. The system comprises a reliability component configured to implement a temperature action plan responsive to the new temperature exceeding a temperature threshold.

According to an aspect of the instant disclosure a computer readable medium comprising instructions which when executed at least in part via a processing unit perform a method for analyzing a tiered semiconductor structure is provided. The method comprises iteratively evaluating a first segment of a tiered semiconductor structure until temperature convergence is detected for the first segment to determine a convergence temperature. A first iteration comprises determining a set of thermal properties for a first segment of a tiered semiconductor structure. Electrical analysis is performed on the first segment based upon at least one of an initial temperature or a time period to obtain a first power metric. A new temperature is determined for the first segment based upon the first power metric and the set of thermal properties. A determination is made as to whether temperature convergence occurs for the first segment based upon the new temperature. Responsive to the converged temperature exceeding a temperature threshold a temperature action plan is implemented. The temperature action plan comprises at least one of providing an alert or inserting one or more thermal release structures into the first segment.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally to be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

