---

title: Transistor-based particle detection systems and methods
abstract: Transistor-based particle detection systems and methods may be configured to detect charged and non-charged particles. Such systems may include a supporting structure contacting a gate of a transistor and separating the gate from a dielectric of the transistor, and the transistor may have a near pull-in bias and a sub-threshold region bias to facilitate particle detection. The transistor may be configured to change current flow through the transistor in response to a change in stiffness of the gate caused by securing of a particle to the gate, and the transistor-based particle detection system may configured to detect the non-charged particle at least from the change in current flow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09052281&OS=09052281&RS=09052281
owner: Purdue Research Foundation
number: 09052281
owner_city: West Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130123
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 590 084 filed Jan. 24 2012 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE FC52 08NA28617 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Some embodiments of this invention pertain to transistor based particle detection systems and methods. In some embodiments transistor based particle detection systems and methods are configured to detect non charged particles.

Some conventional particle detection schemes are label based and others are label free. Label based detection schemes involve labeling the target molecules. Labeling for example can be done by attaching a light emitting particle to the target molecule. On the other hand in label free detection schemes some intrinsic property of the target molecule itself is detected such as the target molecule s mass or charge.

Nanoscale devices are widely regarded as potential candidates for ultra sensitive label free detection of bio chemical molecules. Among the various technologies much recent research has been devoted to mechanical and electrical biosensors. However these technologies are plagued by many challenges in their path to further optimization. Consider for example mechanical biosensors such as nanocantilevers. illustrates a conventional nanocantilever. Here the capture of target molecules on the cantilever surface can modulate the cantilever s mass stiffness or introduce an additional surface stress. This change in mechanical properties of the cantilever can then be observed as a change in its resonance frequency or beam deflection. Detection schemes like an optical detection scheme utilize complex instrumentation to detect these changes in mechanical properties which precludes them from many low cost point of care applications. Further the response of mechanical biosensors varies linearly with change in mass surface stress of cantilevers and therefore may often not be sensitive enough to detect target molecules at low concentrations at the early stages of onset of a disease.

On the other hand conventional electrical biosensors such as the ion sensitive field effect transistor ISFET illustrated in sense the modulation of gate surface potential due to the presence of charged biomolecules. These conventional electrical biosensors operate in a solution that contains not only the charged target particles that are desired to be detected but also other charged particles. Moreover these conventional electrical biosensors use a reference electrode to keep the potential of the solution fixed for stable measurements. The presence of other charged particles in the solution screens the charge of the particles to be detected and is referred to as electrostatic screening . Electrostatic screening therefore hinders target particle detection sensitivity. In addition electrical biosensors face an uphill challenge of miniaturization due to the use of their reference electrodes especially for lab on chip applications. Further electrical biosensors respond to charged biomolecules and hence are not suitable for detecting the presence of any non charged particles.

The above described problems are addressed and technical solutions are achieved in the art by transistor based particle detection systems and methods according to various embodiments of the present invention.

In some embodiments of the present invention a transistor includes a gate and is configured to detect at least a non charged particle secured to the gate. The transistor may be a nanoelectromechanical field effect transistor NEMFET . The transistor may include one or more receptor particles on the gate that secure s the non charged particle. The transistor may be configured to change current flow through the transistor in response to a change in stiffness of the gate caused by securing of the non charged particle to the gate. The transistor may be configured to detect the non charged particle at least from the change in current flow. In some embodiments the transistor includes a dielectric and a supporting structure contacting the gate and separating the gate from the dielectric. In some embodiments the transistor is configured to cause the gate to bend away from the dielectric in response to the change in stiffness of the gate caused by the securing of the non charged particle to the gate. The change in stiffness may be an increase in stiffness. In some embodiments the supporting structure contacts the gate in a configuration configured to allow the gate to flex towards the dielectric at a location on a surface of the gate the location not contacted by the supporting structure and the surface facing the dielectric. The location on the surface of the gate may be exposed to air or another gas. In some embodiments the supporting structure contacts the gate at least at two separated locations but does not contact the gate at a location between at least two of the at least two separated locations.

In some embodiments a transistor based particle detection device includes a gate a dielectric and a supporting structure contacting the gate and separating the gate from the dielectric. The transistor based particle detection device may be configured to have a near pull in bias and a sub threshold region bias. The near pull in bias may be a bias where an effective stiffness of the gate is zero or substantially zero and a relatively small change in the effective stiffness due to securing of particles by receptor particles on the gate results in a relatively large change in separation distance between the gate and the dielectric. The sub threshold region bias may be a bias where current through the transistor based particle detection device changes or is predisposed to change by a relatively large amount in response to a relatively small change in separation distance between the gate and the dielectric as compared to an inversion region bias where current through the transistor based particle detection device is relatively constant in response to changes in separation distance between the gate and the dielectric. In some embodiments the supporting structure supports the gate in a configuration configured to allow the gate to flex towards the dielectric at a location on a surface of the gate the location not contacted by the supporting structure and the surface facing the dielectric. In some embodiments the transistor based particle detection device is a nanoelectromechanical field effect transistor NEMFET .

In some embodiments the transistor based particle detection device includes a substrate adjacent at least the dielectric and comprising a doping a source adjacent at least the substrate and a drain adjacent at least the substrate. The gate and the dielectric may have a separation distance between them and the gate may have a stiffness. The gate and the source may be configured to receive a voltage and the transistor based particle detection device may be configured to have the near pull in bias and the sub threshold region bias due at least to a the separation distance between the gate and the dielectric b the voltage c the doping of the substrate d the stiffness of the gate or some or all of a b c and d .

In some embodiments a transistor based particle detection device includes a transistor and a data processing device system. The transistor may include a gate and may be configured to change a characteristic of energy passed through the transistor in response to a change in stiffness of the gate due to a change in a number of particles secured to the gate. The processing device system may be communicatively connected to the transistor and may be configured to detect the change in the characteristic of the energy passing through the transistor as a detection of the particles secured to the gate.

In addition to the embodiments described above further embodiments will become apparent by reference to the drawings and by study of the following detailed description.

It is to be understood that the attached drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the invention and may not be to scale.

Some embodiments of the present invention pertain to a particle detection transistor which may be a nanoelectromechanical field effect transistor NEMFET based biosensor that overcomes fundamental limitations of current mechanical and electrical nanobiosensors. It should be noted however that the present invention is not limited to NEMFET based biosensors and includes other transistor types and includes the detection of other particle types besides biological particles such as but not limited to non biological chemical or gas sensing. In some embodiments a gate of the particle detection transistor is fixed on two ends and is sometimes referred to herein as a fixed fixed beam . A change in stiffness of such a gate due to capture of target molecules causes a corresponding modulation in drain current of the particle detection transistor in some embodiments Such drain current modulation is detected in some embodiments to indicate detection of target particles. In some embodiments such drain current modulation is maximized or at least increased when the particle detection transistor such as a NEMFET is biased near pull in and in a subthreshold region which may increase sensitivity exponentially. A particle detection transistor according to some embodiments of the present invention is well suited to detect the presence of not only charged particles but also non charged particles and offers orders of magnitude change in sensor characteristics for small changes in beam stiffness.

It is noted that although various devices and systems are disclosed herein the invention includes any method of using a device or system according to any embodiment of the present invention to detect one or more target particles including but not limited to non charged particles.

It also is noted that reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or an example embodiment or an illustrated embodiment or a particular embodiment and the like means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment or in an example embodiment or in this illustrated embodiment or in this particular embodiment and the like in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to one embodiment or a same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics of different embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner to form one or more other embodiments.

It additionally is noted that unless otherwise explicitly noted or required by context the word or is used in this disclosure in a non exclusive sense. In addition unless otherwise explicitly noted or required by context the word set is intended to mean one or more and the word subset is intended to mean a set having the same or fewer elements of those present in the subset s parent or superset.

Further the phrase at least is used herein to emphasize the possibility that other elements can exist besides those explicitly listed. However unless otherwise explicitly noted such as by the use of the term only or required by context non usage herein of the phrase at least includes the possibility that other elements exist besides those explicitly listed. For example the phrase based at least upon A includes A as well as one or more other additional elements besides A. In the same manner the phrase based upon A includes A as well as one or more other additional elements besides A. However the phrase based only upon A includes only A.

The term program in this disclosure should be interpreted as a set of instructions or modules that can be executed by one or more components in a system such as a controller system or data processing device system in order to cause the system to perform one or more operations. The set of instructions or modules can be stored by any kind of memory device such as those described subsequently with respect to the memory device system shown in . In addition this disclosure may describe that the instructions or modules of a program are configured to cause the performance of an action. The phrase configured to in this context is intended to include at least a instructions or modules that are presently in a form executable by one or more data processing devices to cause performance of the action e.g. in the case where the instructions or modules are in a compiled and unencrypted form ready for execution and b instructions or modules that are presently in a form not executable by the one or more data processing devices but could be translated into the form executable by the one or more data processing devices to cause performance of the action e.g. in the case where the instructions or modules are encrypted in a non executable manner but through performance of a decryption process would be translated into a form ready for execution . The word module can be defined as a set of instructions.

The word device and the phrase device system both are intended to include one or more physical devices or sub devices e.g. pieces of equipment that interact to perform one or more functions regardless of whether such devices or sub devices are located within a same housing or different housings. In this regard the word device may equivalently be referred to as a device system .

Further the phrase in response to may be used in this disclosure. For example this phrase might be used in the following context where an event A occurs in response to the occurrence of an event B. In this regard such phrase includes for example that at least the occurrence of the event B causes or triggers the event A.

The data processing device system includes one or more data processing devices that implement or execute in conjunction with other devices such as those in the system methods of various embodiments of the present invention. Each of the phrases data processing device data processor processor and computer is intended to include any data processing device such as a central processing unit CPU a desktop computer a laptop computer a mainframe computer tablet computer a personal digital assistant a cellular phone and any other device for processing data managing data or handling data whether implemented with electrical magnetic optical biological components or otherwise.

The memory device system includes one or more processor accessible memory devices configured to store information including the information needed to execute the methods of various embodiments. The memory device system may be a distributed processor accessible memory device system including multiple processor accessible memory devices communicatively connected to the data processing device system via a plurality of computers and or devices. On the other hand the memory device system need not be a distributed processor accessible memory system and consequently may include one or more processor accessible memory devices located within a single data processing device.

Each of the phrases processor accessible memory and processor accessible memory device is intended to include any processor accessible data storage device whether volatile or nonvolatile electronic magnetic optical or otherwise including but not limited to registers floppy disks hard disks Compact Discs DVDs flash memories ROMs and RAMs. In some embodiments each of the phrases processor accessible memory and processor accessible memory device is intended to include a non transitory computer readable storage medium. And in some embodiments the memory device system can be considered a non transitory computer readable storage medium system.

The phrase communicatively connected is intended to include any type of connection whether wired or wireless between devices data processors or programs in which data may be communicated. Further the phrase communicatively connected is intended to include a connection between devices or programs within a single data processor a connection between devices or programs located in different data processors and a connection between devices not located in data processors at all. In this regard although the memory device system is shown separately from the data processing device system and the input output device system one skilled in the art will appreciate that the memory device system may be located completely or partially within the data processing device system or the input output device system . Further in this regard although the input output device system is shown separately from the data processing device system and the memory device system one skilled in the art will appreciate that such system may be located completely or partially within the data processing system or the memory device system depending upon the contents of the input output device system . Further still the data processing device system the input output device system and the memory device system may be located entirely within the same device or housing or may be separately located but communicatively connected among different devices or housings. In the case where the data processing device system the input output device system and the memory device system are located within the same device the system of can be implemented by a single application specific integrated circuit ASIC in some embodiments.

The input output device system may include a mouse a keyboard a touch screen another computer a processor accessible memory device or any device or combination of devices from which a desired selection desired information instructions or any other data is input to the data processing device system . The input output device system may include a user activatable control system that is responsive to a user action. The input output device system may include any suitable interface for receiving information instructions or any data from other devices and systems described in various ones of the embodiments.

The input output device system also may include an image generating device system a display device system a processor accessible memory device or any device or combination of devices to which information instructions or any other data is output by the data processing device system . The input output device system may include any suitable interface for outputting information instructions or data to other devices and systems described in various ones of the embodiments.

If the input output device system includes a processor accessible memory device such memory device may or may not form part or all of the memory device system .

In some embodiments the input output device system includes one or more and in some embodiments many of the particle detection transistors of at least one embodiment of the present invention as each particle detection transistor may provide information to the data processing device system e.g. changes in one or more electrical characteristics of the particle detection transistor such as change in current to facilitate detection of target particles and may receive information from the data processing device system e.g. one or more voltages for controlling operation of the particle detection transistor . For example the input output device system may include a plurality of particle detection transistors according to that shown in or both discussed below. When multiple particle detection transistors are utilized they may be formed on a single integrated circuit chip or on a plurality of integrated circuit chips each with a plurality of particle detection transistors.

In this regard illustrates a particle detection transistor which may be part of the transistor based particle detection device system of according to some embodiments of the present invention. It should be noted that the transistor may be manufactured using any technique known in the art and that the invention is not limited to any particular method of manufacturing the transistor .

To overcome disadvantages of both conventional mechanical biosensors e.g. poor sensitivity and difficult instrumentation and conventional electrical biosensors e.g. screening due to presence of other ions molecules miniaturization of reference electrode and insensitivity to non charged molecules the particle detection transistor of and detection device system of are configured to detect particles both mechanically and electrically according to some embodiments of the present invention as elaborated upon below.

In the example of the transistor which may be a NEMFET includes a gate which may be made of polysilicon but is not limited thereto a source which may be made of n type silicon but is not limited thereto and a drain which may be made of n type silicon but is not limited thereto . A supporting structure which is illustrated by two walls in for example may be made of polysilicon but is not limited thereto. The supporting structure may contact the gate and separate the gate from a dielectric which may be made of silicon dioxide but is not limited thereto. The dielectric may be located on or adjacent a substrate which may be made of p type silicon but is not limited thereto. The substrate may be located between or adjacent the source and the drain . Because the supporting structure in the example of includes two walls fixedly supporting the gate the gate may be referred to as a fixed fixed beam in some embodiments. In this regard the supporting structure according to some embodiments supports the gate in a configuration configured to allow the gate to flex towards away from or both towards and away from i.e. at different times the dielectric at a location on a surface of the gate that is not directly supported by the supporting structure . For example such a location in may be defined to reside within a flex region of the gate and in some embodiments this flex region may be defined to be a region of the gate that is at least not directly above a contact point between a wall of the supporting structure and the gate . In some embodiments this flex region of the gate is on an underneath surface of the gate that is not contacted by the supporting structure and that faces the dielectric . In other words it can be stated that in some embodiments the supporting structure contacts the gate in a configuration configured to allow the gate to flex or bend towards the dielectric at a location on a surface e.g. underneath surface of the gate the location not contacted by the supporting structure and the surface e.g. underneath surface facing the dielectric .

In some embodiments as shown in the example of the flexing of the gate is facilitated by the underneath surface being exposed to a separation region between the gate and the dielectric the separation region being caused at least in part by the supporting structure . In some embodiments the separation region is filled with air or another gas which causes the underneath surface of the gate to be exposed to the air or other gas. However the invention is not limited to the separation region being filled with air or another gas and any material that allows flexing of the gate toward away from or both toward and away from the dielectric may be used.

With the transistor configuration shown for example in the gate is able to flex in response to a change in stiffness of the gate due to the securing of target particles which are to be detected only one called out by reference numeral in for purposes of clarity to the gate via receptor particles only one called out by reference numeral in for purposes of clarity known in the art and which are attached to the gate according to some embodiments. To elaborate in some embodiments receptor particles are located on and may be attached to a detection surface of the gate using techniques known in the art. In some embodiments the detection surface is on an opposite side of the gate as compared to the underneath surface of the gate and faces away from the dielectric .

As target particles are captured or secured by the receptor particles the stiffness of the gate increases because the secured target particles cause an effect akin to increasing a thickness of the gate much like the stiffness of a thin object increases as the thickness of the object increases. If the gate along with its receptor particles is predisposed to bend towards the dielectric in a default non detection state the increase in stiffness of the gate due to the capturing or securing of target particles causes the gate or at least a region or location such as a central or other region location not directly supported by the supporting structure of the gate to move or bend away from the dielectric . This movement of the gate away from the dielectric changes the characteristics of the transistor e.g. turn on voltage capacitance current flow through the transistor at a fixed gate source voltage transconductance etc. which can be used by the system e.g. to detect the capturing of the target particles .

In this regard the movement of the gate is a mechanical action of the transistor that causes changes in the electrical characteristics of the transistor to facilitate detection of the target particles . At least because this mechanical action of the transistor is caused by the securing of the target particles to the gate and at least because the target particles can be secured to the gate e.g. by receptor particles regardless of the charge of the target particles the transistor is configured to detect non charged target particles. For example the transistor is configured in some embodiments to change its current flow through the transistor in response to the change in stiffness of the gate caused by securing of non charged particles to the gate and at least this change in current flow can be sensed e.g. by the system in to detect the non charged particles. For another example the transistor in some embodiments is configured to change a characteristic of energy passed through the transistor in response to a change in stiffness of the gate due to a change in a number of particles secured to the gate . In some of embodiments a processing device system e.g. the data processing device system is communicatively connected to the transistor and is configured to detect the change in the characteristic of the energy passing through the transistor or some other detectable change in characteristic of the transistor as a detection of the particles secured to the gate.

However the invention is not limited to the detection of non charged particles and applies to the detection of any target particle charged or non charged that can cause a change in detectable characteristics of the transistor due to flexing or bending of the gate .

At least because the transistor changes at least its detectable electrical characteristics due to the securing of target particles to the gate easier detection information read out as compared to conventional mechanical biosensors e.g. is achieved. Further detection of the target particles may be performed by a data processing device system e.g. that senses these changes in electrical characteristics of the transistor and complex optical detection schemes like those used for conventional mechanical biosensors are not necessary. Further still because the detection mechanism does not depend on the charge of the target particles use of a reference electrode like those used by conventional electrical biosensors is not required and consequently improved detection device size reduction can be achieved as compared to conventional electrical biosensors. In addition because the detection mechanism need not be charged based problems associated with hindrance of sensitivity by electrostatic screening due to the presence of other charged ions molecules in a solution in which the sensor is operating can be avoided.

Although the transistor in illustrates the supporting structure contacting the gate at two separated locations e.g. at the respective ends of the gate but not contacting the gate at a location e.g. residing in a flex region of the gate on the underneath surface of the gate not contacting the respective ends of the gate between the two separated locations it should be noted that the invention is not limited to such a configuration. In this regard the invention includes any configuration that allows a change in detectible characteristics of the transistor due to flexing or bending of the gate due to detection of target particles .

For example in some embodiments the supporting structure contacts or otherwise supports the gate at only a single contiguous region e.g. omit one of the walls of the supporting structure in see also cantilever configuration . On the other hand in some embodiments the supporting structure contacts or otherwise supports the gate at more than two contiguous regions. For example the gate in may be supported by four pillars one at each corner of the gate instead of being supported by two walls like the supporting structure of .

Further the gate need not be of rectangular shape as shown in . In this regard it is noted that the invention is not limited to the particular transistor configuration shown in and the invention includes any shape of the gate the supporting structure or any other element of the transistor in as well as any arrangement of the elements of the transistor in that allows a change in detectible characteristics of the transistor due to flexing or bending of the gate due to detection of target particles .

In this regard illustrates some other configurations of the transistor according to various embodiments of the present invention. Fixed fixed beam configuration represents a gate supporting structure and substrate dielectric according to the configuration of . Cantilever configuration is similar to the structure of fixed fixed beam configuration but includes a supporting structure of only a single support wall. also illustrates a configuration in which the gate is supported at all sides. In addition illustrates that the gate need not be flat and may for example have a cylindrical shape as shown by fixed fixed beam configuration and cantilever configuration . A cylindrical gate shape for example may be implemented using a carbon nanotube or silicon nanowire.

In some embodiments to enhance the sensitivity of particle detection of the transistor the transistor is configured to have a near pull in bias and a sub threshold region bias. The near pull in bias may be described as a bias where an effective stiffness of the gate is zero or substantially zero and a relatively small change in the stiffness due to securing of particles by the receptor particles on the gate results in a relatively large change in separation distance y e.g. between the gate and the dielectric . Effective stiffness is the sum of the mechanical stiffness a positive quantity of the gate and electrostatic stiffness a negative quantity due to the electrostatic force acting on the gate when a bias is applied. At a zero bias condition effective stiffness is the same as the mechanical stiffness of the gate and at pull in bias effective stiffness is zero.

The sub threshold region bias may be described as a bias where current through the transistor based particle detection device e.g. transistor changes or is predisposed to change by a relatively large amount in response to a relatively small change in separation distance y between the gate and the dielectric as compared to an inversion region bias where current through the transistor based particle detection device e.g. transistor is relatively constant in response to changes in separation distance y between the gate and the dielectric .

In other words the near pull in bias of the transistor allows the gate to be predisposed to move by a relatively large amount in response to the securing of a relatively small number of target particles to the gate . The sub threshold region bias allows electrical characteristics of the transistor to change by a relatively large amount in response to a relatively small change in separation distance y between the gate and the dielectric . Each of these biases enhances a change in characteristics of the transistor due to the securing of target particles to the gate which enhances detectability of the target particles . Collectively these biases allow a relatively small number of target particles secured to the gate to result in a relatively large detection signal to be provided by the transistor to for example a detection system such as system in .

In some embodiments the transistor is configured to have the near pull in bias and the sub threshold bias by having a default non detection or pre detection but detection ready state a separation distance y between the gate and the dielectric b gate source voltage c substrate doping d gate stiffness or some or all of a b c and d .

In this regard the transistor in is modeled by coupling the Euler Bernoulli equation with the Poisson s equation both of which are known in the art. Equations 1 4 below are used to solve the shape of the fixed fixed beam i.e. the gate as a function of gate bias where y x is the displacement of a point on the beam located at distance x away from one end of the beam D EWH 12 is the flexural rigidity of the fixed fixed beam which can change when particles are captured on the beam Eis the electrical field in air Wis the width of the beam His the thickness of the beam E is the Young s modulus of the beam is the permittivity of free space Eis the electrical field in the dielectric Eis the electric field at the dielectric semiconductor interface Eis the dielectric constant of the dielectric eis the dielectric constant of semiconductor Vis the applied gate bias V y x Eis the voltage drop in air V yEis the voltage drop in the dielectric is the surface potential or voltage drop in semiconductor q is the charge on electron Nis substrate doping kis the Boltzmann constant T is absolute temperature and nis the intrinsic carrier concentration in substrate. Equation 5 below calculates the total inversion charge in the transistor where V kT q is the thermal voltage. Equation 6 below calculates the total drain current in the linear region where is the electron mobility Lis the length of the beam Vis the applied source drain bias. There is no known analytical solutions of Equations 1 6 therefore Equations 1 6 are solved numerically.

In some embodiments detection of target particles is achieved due to a change in the stiffness proportional to flexural rigidity of the beam acting as a gate of the transistor with a change in drain current in the transistor being observed e.g. by the system in as an indication of detection of the target particles . In this regard depicts the effect of rigidity change on NEMFET e.g. according to some embodiments behavior. depicts the shape of the gate at fixed gate voltage as a function of flexural rigidity D where stiffness is proportional to flexural rigidity. The fixed fixed beam e.g. the gate in moves upwards due to increase in D see where D increases in the direction of the arrow in . Therefore surface potential and inversion charge are reduced as D increases see respectively with a corresponding decrease in drain current see . This decrease in Isignals the capture of target particles . show Ias a function of percentage change in D for different substrate doping concentrations. As doping increases a decrease in I increases for a given percentage change in D. When N 4e16 cm an approximately 10 change in D results in one order of magnitude change in drain current.

It is to be understood that the above described embodiments are merely illustrative of the present invention and that many variations of the above described embodiments can be devised by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention. It is therefore intended that all such variations be included within the invention and the scope of the following claims and their equivalents.

