---

title: System and method for real time delivery of context based content from the cloud to mobile
abstract: The information in the cloud is available in the form of software-as-a-service is accessible from laptops and personal computers. The system obtains information from multiple sources in the “cloud,” correlates the information, determines a subset of information based on context, and pushes the information to at least one mobile device. An engine extracts a context based subset of information and correlates the context based subset of information based on the same context or a different context. A data push engine makes the information available in real time to a user by pushing the information to the at least one mobile device like a smartphone, tablet, and/or navigation system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071649&OS=09071649&RS=09071649
owner: Core Mobile Networks, Inc.
number: 09071649
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 963 411 filed Dec. 8 2010 entitled System and Method for Real Time Delivery of Context Based Content from the Cloud to Mobile Devices which claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Provisional Application No. 61 383 158 filed on Sep. 15 2010 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to software as a service for information delivery and in particular to a method and system for real time delivery of context based information to mobile devices in which services and storage are provided over the Internet or cloud .

Cloud computing is generally defined as Internet based computing where shared resources such as software and information are provided to computers and other devices on demand. Cloud based services are continuing to grow rapidly with the cloud based application market expected to be 42 BN in 2012. Of this market business applications are expected to be over 21 BN in 2012. Cloud based applications however are designed to be accessible from laptops and personal computers over the internet. These applications do not address the need for mobility by service personnel who do not have access to a computer at the time and have only a small mobile device with limited screen size and computing power at disposal. The full promise of cloud based services is not being realized due to lack of mechanism to determine a subset of information based on user context to be delivered to the mobile devices such as smartphones. A smartphone is a mobile device offering advanced capabilities often with personal computer PC like functionality. Although there is no industry standard definition of a smartphone it is generally considered to be an electronic handheld device that integrates the functionality of a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA or other information appliance that can also access the Internet over wireless networks.

Smartphone adoption is continuing to increase with over 400M smartphones expected to be in use by 2012. The increasing adoption of smartphones is driving the need for cloud based information to be delivered in real time to small screen smartphones over WiFi 2G 3G and 4G wireless networks

Accordingly there is a need for providing software as a service to take any application in the cloud correlate the information based on a certain context determine a subset of information based on another or same context and deliver the information in real time to a mobile device such as a smartphone.

Various embodiments are disclosed to address the above mentioned shortcomings in getting cloud based application data to mobile devices in a usable and timely manner. In one aspect a system and method are provided to correlate information from the cloud Internet determine a context based subset of information and deliver the context based subset of information to the mobile device in real time.

In another aspect a system and method are provided for real time delivery of context based information to mobile devices. The system and method provide determining a subset of information based on context after correlation of the information from multiple sources based on the same or another context and providing the correlated subset of information based on context to mobile devices by way of push technology where in an Internet based communication the request for a given transaction is initiated by the publisher or central server.

In another aspect a context based information correlation engine employs real live data from multiple systems on the cloud Internet with one or more contexts to correlate and determine a subset.

In another aspect a context like location of a mobile device is used to determine a smaller most relevant subset of information available.

In another aspect a context like subject in a calendar entry of a mobile device such as Microsoft Outlook is used to determine the most relevant subset of information available.

In another aspect a common data push mechanisms is used in a device agnostic manner to push the information to a mobile device for real time availability.

In another aspect when the mobile device is further enhanced with location and identity based security privacy of information pushed to the mobile device is ascertained.

Various aspects of the present disclosure are directed generally to a system and method for real time delivery of context based information to mobile devices. In one aspect the present disclosure is directed to providing data from multiple sources in the cloud to a mobile device such as a smartphone or tablet device such as the iPad table computer by Apple . The data from multiple sources in the cloud may be an enterprise application in a private cloud or from the Internet in the form of a cloud based application such as for example software as a service. There are two major differences between accessing applications from a mobile device rather than a personal computer PC . One is that a PC has a large screen bring up a browser and display more information. On the other hand a mobile device has a smaller size screen than the PC so the amount of information to be displays on the screen has to be reduced. In one aspect the data for mobile devices can be reduced based on a logical context space. Another difference between the PC and the mobile device is the communication link between the mobile device and the source of the application and the source of the data. In case of PCs there are high speed Broadband networks lower densities and can be easily accessed from a PC with a high capacity processor. Mobile devices however have low capacity processors and a very high density network. Therefore in the case of mobile devices instead of waiting for the information to be downloaded a system for real time delivery of context based information determines ahead of time what information the user needs and to pushes that information to the smartphone handset in a certain context.

Accordingly in one aspect the disclosed system for real time delivery of context based information determines a context based subset of information from the cloud and pushes that context based subset of information to the handset of the mobile device. The context can be any type of context. Two major contexts are location and calendar entry on the mobile device. For example a meeting associated with a calendar entry may have a certain subject associated with it. Based on the subject for that meeting information can be extracted from the cloud a subset of that information is determined and the subset is pushed to the mobile device. In case of location a subset of information can be determined based on the location of the mobile device and the subset of information pushed to the mobile device.

In one general aspect the system for real time delivery of context based information may be implemented using four software modules or engines a data acquisition engine a data normalization engine a business rules engine and a data output engine. The data acquisition portion determines where to get the data. Data that resides on a website may be scraped using a web scrape. Flat data residing on some servers may be extracted from there. Software as a service like salesforce.com has an application programming interface API publisher with a complete and consistent list of partners. The APIs may be employed in terms of web service to language to acquire data. A data acquisition agent handles the data acquisition portion. Once the data is obtained it may require normalization so that business rules can be applied to the normalized data. For example if the rule requires getting data from two multiple sources then there has to be some way to get the data normalized in a manner that the business rules engine can understand the data in a consolidated manner. Because the data will be received from two different sources and two different formats with two different ordering the business rules engine will normalize the data.

In some aspects the data acquisition and data normalization portions may be implemented as one engine in a data acquisition and normalization engine DANE . The DANE receives and normalizes the data and outputs the normalized data in a format referred to as a cloud mobile data unit CMDU . The CMDU is passed on to the business rules engine and then business rules engine applies the correlation determines the subset and passes it on to a data output engine which then pushes it to the mobile device. The push to the mobile device is done in a device agnostic manner because different mobile devices support different types of push engines different service providers use different type of pushing and there are different enterprises using different type of pushing engines. The system for real time delivery of context based information performs data acquisition and normalization and then applies the business rules engine to perform correlation and subset determination. Various aspects of how to perform the correlation between multiple sources and how to determine the subset of information so that the information can be pushed to the mobile device are disclosed hereinbelow. The subset of the correlated information can then be display in a mobile device such as a smartphone or tablet device in a manner that it can be displayed on a smaller screen. Prior to turning to a description of a system for real time delivery of context based information the present description first turns to for description of comparative pie charts that provide industry data on cloud applications and business applications in the cloud and a bar graph that provides industry data on adoption of smartphones and tablet devices among other mobile devices.

In one aspect a method is directed for field service professional to push new leads to the mobile device based on current location of the service personnel s mobile device and anticipated duration of current task. The service lead information may be extracted from web based service lead systems such as servicemagic.com servicemax.com and correlated with context and criteria before being pushed to the mobile device .

In various embodiments the mobile device may be implemented as a handheld portable device computer mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smartphone tablet personal computer PC kiosk desktop computer or laptop computer or any combination thereof. Examples of smartphones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smartphones Blackberry smart phones Apple iPhone and the like. Although some embodiments of the mobile device may be described with a mobile or fixed computing device implemented as a smart phone personal digital assistant laptop desktop computer by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example a mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as the laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. A fixed computing device for example may be implemented as a desk top computer workstation client server computer and so forth.

In various embodiments the mobile device may provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access LTE Long Term Evolution and so forth.

In various embodiments the mobile device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.1a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

In various embodiments the interface device is configured to couple to a communication interface to access the cloud Internet . The communication interface may form part of a wired communications system a wireless communications system or a combination of both. For example the mobile device may be configured to communicate information over one or more types of wired communication links such as a wire cable bus printed circuit board PCB Ethernet connection peer to peer P2P connection backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optic connection and so forth. The mobile device may be arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication links such as a radio channel satellite channel television channel broadcast channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands. In wireless implementations the mobile device may comprise one more interfaces and or components for wireless communication such as one or more transmitters receivers transceivers amplifiers filters control logic wireless network interface cards WNICs antennas and so forth.

The following portions of the present disclosure describe one aspect of a server and sever side software running executing in the cloud for delivering context based information to a mobile device in real time the method comprising correlating information from multiple sources based on a context determining a subset of information based on the context after correlating the information from the multiple sources based on the same or another context and delivering the subset of information to a mobile device based on push technology.

The data acquisition engine obtains data from the cloud using multiple methods such as but not limited to scraping of web pages reading from flat files reading from calendar entries such as Microsoft Exchange enterprise servers reading from Mobile Device servers and reading from databases and web services such as software as a service SaaS applications such as for example salesforce.com SAP Oracle.

The data normalization engine performs attributes normalization such that data obtained from different sources can be saved in a database. The data normalization engine also applies post normalization rules if any such that data is made available for context based correlation and context based subset determination. For practical purposes of implementation and improvement in efficiency in one aspect the data acquisition and data normalization modules are combined as a single module as shown in below.

Turning back now to the business rules engine performs tracking of mobile user contexts such as sessions and locations data transformations such as aggregation of multiple SaaS data sources context based correlation and context based subset determination. At a high level the BRE tracks user context based on location of the user and where the user sessions are located. The BRE performs data transformations on various aggregations of information that is received from multiple sources such as software as a service SaaS web locations like salesforce.com salesgeni.com LinkedIn.com SAP Siebel airline reservations systems patient information systems. The BRE correlates the data received from multiple sources.

In a field sales application of real time delivery of context based information such as described herein in connection with for example may be employed by a field sales person who wants to correlate the information located in the company database to the information provided by salesforce.com which includes sales leads generated by salesgeni.com. Also the current contacts of the sales person may be associated with the current location of the sales person and in one example up to a quarter mile radius of the current location. The various sales targets may be correlated with the information from salesgeni.com and salesforce.com to see which one to target first. Other contacts may be correlated to the upcoming scheduled meetings and based on that the BRE can extract information from the salesforce.com and correlate to salesgenie.com other sales targets at the same account. That information is correlated and pushed to the mobile device of the sales person. The BRE provides contact based correlation and performs a contact based subset determination. The subset determination displays the data on a really small display on a mobile device such as a smartphone. Following the BRE is the DOE .

The data output engine delivers the context based correlation information to a mobile device or multiple mobile devices based on a context based content push to the mobile device or multiple mobile devices . The DOE takes the context based information which has been determined by the BRE and pushes it to the applicable mobile device s . The DOE tracks the configuration of the mobile device it determines a pushing engine for the mobile device and then applies a predetermined set of rules for that pushing engine to push the data to the mobile device s .

In one aspect the DANE may be implemented as a generic module that is configured using cloud mobility configuration CMC source. The CMC provides business vertical specific information where this SaaS is being deployed. For example one specification of the CMC can be used to configure the DANE and the CMP in for salesforce.com or salesgenie.com and will be different from that for healthcare providers electronic medical record systems for example. The output of the combined DANE is a cloud mobility data unit CMDU . The CMDU is a normalized form of extracted data object with the format shown in .

The information is acquired from the cloud by the DANE is provided passed on to the BRE in a data unit packet referred to as a the CMDU which is essentially the output of the DANE and the input to the BRE so that business rules can be applied to the data received from the cloud . Thus the CMDU is the key data that is generated within the CMP . Accordingly the CMDU enables the CMP to receive data from multiple sources normalize the data to a format that the BRE can actually act upon to generate the context based information and to perform a context based correlation near the context based subset.

Turning now back to the DANE processes asynchronous and heterogeneous MCEs and generates homogeneous CMDUs . The CMDUs are queued up for processing by the BRE to perform correlation of data in multiple CMDUs and determine a context based subset of information and puts in the queue for the DOE to act on it to push the data to the mobile device . The DOE pushes the data output from the CMDUs based on fields that need to be pushed based on the entries in the configuration file.

The CMC specifies the basis of operation of all three engines as an XML schema. Each vertical application that is being mobilized has a separate CMC which is generated dynamically based on configuration options chosen by the user from the web interface to SaaS to mobilize the cloud. For example at start up the DANE BRE and DOE engines of the CMP require certain initialization guidelines based on what rules to employ. Such initialization guidelines are provided in the CMC file. The CMC is an XML schema that provides operational details regarding the DANE BRE and DOE engines. The CMC enables the CMP to be applied to various business environments like field sales field service airlines healthcare pharmaceuticals financial business intelligence among others as previously discussed in connection with for example. When the CMP is applied to different business environments what changes are the data and the CMC sections.

The XML schemas for the CMDUs are defined separately such that the CMDUs are leveraged across multiple cloud based applications and services being mobilized. The CMC leverages XML to define hierarchical rules in the hierarchical BRE and parameters for context based correlation and context based subset determination.

The CMDU is transmitted to the BRE . The BRE performs context based correlation of CMDUs and determines a subset from the CMDUs based on the information defined in the CMCs . As described above the CMC is a configuration file that has an entry for particular business to be applied by the BE . The CMC is formatted to includes a section with parameters that are common to all three engines DANE BE DOE . Additionally the CMC includes parameters specifically tailored for the DANE parameters specifically tailored for the BRE and parameters specifically tailored for the DOE . After the BRE reads such parameters common and specific from the CMC it waits for the DANE to pass the data to it in the form of a CMDU and then the BRE applies the specific business logical rules to the CMDU . The BRE employs certain format of business rules and logic rules that are applied to the CMDU for various execution paths. In summary the BRE comprises business logic rules. The business logic rules are defined as rule execution paths because the same rule can be applied in multiple ways. So if PAT formed one type of data it would be different based on which particle of rules are being used in that PAT. The rules are very generic. Finally the path through the rules depends on the particular business application as defined by the CMC .

Some examples of business logic rules are certain mathematical functions string manipulation functions flow control mapping from one to one or two from ranges or aggregation among others. If data is received from a .com as a contact person on a the data can be extracted from the link provided for that particular contact which may assist a sales person or a field sales person understand a target customer in more detail for example. The data received from salesforce.com or from salesgeni.com can be correlated and combined according to the particular business rules. Data from airline reservations systems also can be combined. Fore example when the flight is scheduled and the passenger is ready to get on a certain plane a message is sent pushed to the passenger mobile device with the particular flight information such as departure time gate and the like. In addition other information may be delivered or pushed to the passenger mobile device that includes the current location of the passenger the driving time to the airport destination and the like. And as the passenger gets to the airport close additional information such as restaurants and information about the restaurants may be pushed to the passenger mobile device from which the airlines may be able to generate additional advertising revenue.

With reference now to the BLRs running the BRE operates on attributes of the CMDU leveraging the MCEs to convert the CMDUs for processing by the next rule in the REP or pass on a subset of the CMDUs to the DOE . Some of the business logic actions performed by the BLRs include without limitation mathematical functions string manipulation flow control if them go to loops mapping one to one to from ranges aggregation sums counts enrichment of data from other SaaS sources correlation notification of external entities of a specified CMDU state logging. The BLRs perform a specific set of functions on data input to them and are reusable across multiple REPs . When the REP processing the CMDUs is completed the subset of information data is passed on to the DOE for delivery to the mobile device s .

In this example the computing device comprises one or more processor circuits or processing units one or more memory circuits and or storage circuit component s and one or more input output I O circuit devices . Additionally the computing device comprises a bus that allows the various circuit components and devices to communicate with one another. The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus may comprise wired and or wireless buses.

The processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs applications programs and or modules to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device . The processing unit may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wired or wireless communications channels. Although the processing unit of the computing device includes single processor architecture as shown it may be appreciated that the computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a as a general purpose processor. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the processing unit may be coupled to the memory and or storage component s through the bus . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be shown as being separate from the processing unit for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit . In various embodiments the computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk etc. . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The one or more I O devices allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card etc. . The computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The computing device may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device . For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS Android OS Apple OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Various embodiments may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as software program modules and or engines being executed by a computer. Generally software program modules and or engines include any software element arranged to perform particular operations or implement particular abstract data types. Software program modules and or engines can include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of the software program modules and or engines components and techniques may be stored on and or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. In this regard computer readable media can be any available medium or media useable to store information and accessible by a computing device. Some embodiments also may be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software program modules and or engines may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising functional components software engines and or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components software engines and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In other embodiments the functional components such as software engines and or modules may be implemented by hardware elements that may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth.

Examples of software engines and or modules may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a computer readable storage medium arranged to store logic instructions and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate example implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in one aspect in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the disclosed embodiments.

