---

title: Low micropipe 100 mm silicon carbide wafer
abstract: A high quality single crystal wafer of SiC is disclosed having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density of less than about 25 cm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08866159&OS=08866159&RS=08866159
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 08866159
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131122
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 940 423 filed Nov. 15 2007 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 957 807 filed Oct. 4 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 314 521 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was developed under Office of Naval Research DARPA Contract No. N00014 02 C 0306. The government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to low defect Silicon Carbide wafers and their use as precursors for semiconductor purposes and to seeded sublimation growth of large high quality silicon carbide single crystals.

Silicon carbide has found use as semiconductor material for various electronic devices and purposes in recent years. Silicon carbide is especially useful due to its physical strength and high resistance to chemical attack. Silicon carbide also has excellent electronic properties including radiation hardness high breakdown field a relatively wide band gap high saturated electron drift velocity high temperature operation and absorption and emission of high energy photons in the blue violet and ultraviolet regions of the spectrum.

Single crystal silicon carbide is often produced by a seeded sublimation growth process. In a typical silicon carbide growth technique the seed crystal and a source powder are both placed in a reaction crucible which is heated to the sublimation temperature of the source and in a manner that produces a thermal gradient between the source and the marginally cooler seed crystal. The thermal gradient encourages vapor phase movement of the materials from the source to the seed followed by condensation upon the seed and the resulting bulk crystal growth. The method is also referred to as physical vapor transport PVT .

In a typical silicon carbide growth technique the crucible is made of graphite and is heated by induction or resistance with the relevant coils and insulation being placed to establish and control the desired thermal gradient. The source powder is silicon carbide as is the seed. The crucible is oriented vertically with the source powder in the lower portions and the seed positioned at the top typically on the seed holder see U.S. Pat. No. 4 866 005 reissued as No. Re 34 861 the contents of which are incorporated entirely herein by reference. These sources are exemplary rather than limiting descriptions of modern seeded sublimation growth techniques.

The invention is also related to the following copending and commonly assigned U.S. application Ser. No. 10 628 189 filed Jul. 28 2003 for Growth of Ultra High Purity Silicon Carbide Crystals in an Ambient Containing Hydrogen Ser. No. 10 628 188 filed Jul. 28 2003 for Reducing Nitrogen Content in Silicon Carbide Crystals by Sublimation Growth in a Hydrogen Containing Ambient Ser. No. 10 707 898 filed Jan. 22 2004 for Silicon Carbide on Diamond Substrates and Related Devices and Methods Ser. No. 60 522 326 filed Sep. 15 2004 for Seed Preparation for the Growth of High Quality Large Size Silicon Carbide Crystals Ser. No. 10 915 095 filed Aug. 10 2004 for Seed and Seedholder Combinations for High Quality Growth of Large Silicon Carbide Single Crystals and Ser. No. 10 876 963 filed Jun. 25 2004 for One Hundred Millimeter High Purity Semi Insulating Single Crystal Silicon Carbide Wafer. The contents of these applications are likewise incorporated entirely herein by reference.

Although the density of structural defects in silicon carbide bulk crystals has been continually reduced in recent years relatively high defect concentrations still appear and have been found to be difficult to eliminate e.g. Nakamura et al. Ultrahigh quality silicon carbide single crystals Vol. 430 Aug. 26 2004 page 1009. These defects can cause significant problems in limiting the performance characteristics of devices made on the substrates or in some cases can preclude useful devices altogether. Current seeded sublimation techniques for the production of large bulk single crystals of silicon carbide typically result in a higher than desired concentration of defects on the growing surface of the silicon carbide crystal. Higher concentrations of defects can cause significant problems in limiting the performance characteristics of devices made on the crystals or substrates resulting from the crystals. For example a typical micropipe defect density in some commercially available silicon carbide wafers can be on the order of 100 per square centimeter cm . A megawatt device formed in silicon carbide however requires a defect free area on the order of 0.4 cm. Thus obtaining large single crystals that can be used to fabricate large surface area devices for high voltage high current applications remains a worthwhile goal.

Although small samples of low defect silicon carbide have been available a broader commercial use of silicon carbide requires larger samples and in particular larger wafers. By way of comparison 100 mm 4 silicon wafers have been commercially available since 1975 and 150 mm 6 silicon wafers became available in 1981. Gallium arsenide GaAs is also commercially available in both 4 and 6 wafers. Thus the commercial availability of 50 mm 2 and 75 mm 3 SiC wafers lags behind these other materials and to some extent limits the adoption and use of SiC in a wider range of devices and applications.

Micropipes are common defects that develop or propagate during the seeded sublimation production of SiC crystals. Other defects include threading dislocations hexagonal voids and screw dislocations. If these defects remain in the SiC crystal then resulting devices grown on the crystal may incorporate these defects.

The nature and description of specific defects is generally well understood in the crystal growth art. A micropipe is a hollow core super screw dislocation with its Burgers vector lying along the c axis. A number of causes have been proposed or identified for the generation of micropipes. These include excess materials such as silicon or carbon inclusions extrinsic impurities such as metal deposits boundary defects and the movement or slippage of partial dislocations. See e.g. Powell et al. Growth of Low Micropipe Density SiC Wafers Materials Science Forum Vols. 338 340 pp 437 440 2000 .

Hexagonal voids are flat hexagonal platelet shaped cavities in the crystal that often have hollow tubes trailing beneath them. Some evidence shows that micropipes are associated with hexagonal voids. A relatively recent discussion of such defects exemplary and not limiting is set forth in Kuhr et al. Hexagonal Voids And The Formation Of Micropipes During SiC Sublimation Growth Journal of Applied Physics Volume 89 No. 8 page 4625 April 2001 .

The presence of surface defects in bulk single crystals of SiC may also interfere with single polytype crystal growth. The 150 available polytypes of SiC raise a particular difficulty. Many of these polytypes are very similar often separated only by small thermodynamic differences. Maintaining the desired polytype identity throughout the crystal is only one difficulty in growing SiC crystals of large sizes in a seeded sublimation system. When surface defects are present there is not enough polytype information on the crystal surface for depositing layers to maintain the desired polytype. Polytype changes on the surface of the growing crystal result in the formation of even more surface defects.

Recent research indicates that problems in the bulk crystals produced in a seeded sublimation technique can originate with the seed itself and the manner in which it is physically handled e.g. Sanchez et al Formation Of Thermal Decomposition Cavities In Physical Vapor Transport Of Silicon Carbide Journal of Electronic Materials Volume 29 No. 3 page 347 2000 . Sanchez uses the term micropipe to describe approximately cylindrical voids with diameters in the range of 0.1 m to 5 m that form at the core of superscrew dislocations aligned parallel or nearly parallel to the 0001 axis Id. at 347. Sanchez refers to larger voids diameters from 5 m to 100 m as thermal decomposition cavities and opines that micropipes and thermal decomposition cavities arise from different causes. Id.

Accordingly producing larger high quality bulk single crystals of silicon carbide with low defect levels in crystals formed in the seeded sublimation system remains a constant technical commercial goal.

In one aspect the present invention is a high quality single crystal wafer of SiC having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density of less than about 25 cm.

In another aspect the invention is a SiC semiconductor precursor wafer having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density of less than about 25 cm.

In another aspect the invention is a method of using a high quality single crystal wafer of SiC having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density of less than about 25 cmin a seeded sublimation growth system.

In yet another aspect the invention is a plurality of power devices built on a single crystal seed of SiC having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density of less than about 25 cm.

The present invention relates to high quality silicon carbide wafers. In particular the present invention incorporates several techniques for improving the growth of such wafers using seeded sublimation.

In one aspect the present invention is a high quality single crystal wafer of SiC having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density less than about 25 cm more preferably less than about 20 cm and most preferably less than about 10 cm. The polytype of the single crystal SiC is preferably 3C 4H 6H 2H or 15R.

In considering the proportional dimensions of the diameter and thickness of the seed crystal whether expressed as a percentage a fraction or a ratio it will be understood that in the context of the improvements provided by the invention these proportions have their inventive meaning in the context of the larger diameter seed crystals that are described herein.

Accordingly in certain embodiments the invention is described and claimed herein in the relevant embodiments in a manner that includes the absolute dimensions of the crystal usually in terms of a diameter of which 2 inch 3 inch and 100 mm diameter single crystals are preferred.

In another aspect the invention is a high quality semiconductor precursor wafer. The wafer is a silicon carbide wafer of the 4H polytype having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density on its surface of between about 7 and 22 cm. The surface micropipe density represents a count of the total micropipes on the surface divided by the surface area of the wafer. The count of total micropipes represents a count of total micropipes on the surface after an etch that preferentially emphasizes micropipe defects. The etch is preferably a molten potassium hydroxide etch. It will be understood measurable areas of crystals according to the present invention exhibit micropipe densities of less than 22 cm in some cases less than 7 cm and in yet other cases to date predictive none. Thus as used herein the expression less than has both measured and predictive aspects. In addition to the measured aspects e.g. it is expected that some crystals will demonstrate even fewer defects. As a result the phrase less than e.g. less than 7 cm as used herein also includes but is not limited to ranges such as 7 22 cm.

In yet another aspect the invention is a high quality semiconductor precursor wafer of silicon carbide having a 4H polytype a diameter of at least about 100 mm and between about 545 and 1730 micropipes on the surface of the wafer. Again the surface micropipes represent a count of the total micropipes on the surface preferably after the molten potassium hydroxide etch.

In another aspect as schematically depicted in the invention is a high quality silicon carbide semiconductor precursor wafer having a 4H polytype a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density on its surface of less than 22 cm. The wafer additionally has a Group III nitride layer located on the surface. The Group III nitride layer is preferably one or more of GaN AlGaN AlN AlInGaN InN and AlInN.

The growth and electronic characteristics of Group III nitrides are generally well understood in this art. Group III nitride layers on silicon carbide substrates are a basic feature of certain types of light emitting diodes LEDs . Among other desirable factors the atomic fraction of the Group III element e.g. InGaN tailors the bandgap of the composition within limits to likewise tailor the resulting emission frequency and thus the color of the LED.

With respect to the invention is a plurality of silicon carbide semiconductor device precursors on a SiC seed having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and a micropipe density on the surface of the wafer of between about 7 and 22 cm. The wafer additionally has a plurality of respective Group III nitride epitaxial layers on some portions of the wafer. Preferred Group III nitride epitaxial layers are individually selected from GaN AlGaN AlN AlInGaN InN and AlInN.

In another aspect the invention is a method of producing a high quality bulk single crystal of silicon carbide in a seeded sublimation system the improvement includes growing a SiC boule having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and having a micropipe density of less than about 20 cm thereafter slicing the SiC boule preferably mechanically into wafers wherein each wafer has a micropipe density of less than about 20 cmon the surface. The wafers are preferably about 0.5 mm thick.

It may be preferable to then polish and etch the SiC wafers. A preferred polish is a chemo mechanical polish and a preferred etch is a molten KOH etch. The etch is carried out in order to highlight the defects on the surface and is unnecessary as a precursor step to seeded sublimation. Thus sublimation growth is typically carried out on a polished seed that has not been etched.

As is known in the art the SiC boule is preferably grown in a seeded sublimation system. After the boule is sliced into wafers the wafers may then in turn be used as the seed in a seeded sublimation growth of a single crystal of silicon carbide.

As noted in the background portion of the specification the general aspects of seeded sublimation growth of silicon carbide have been generally well established for a number of years. Furthermore those familiar with the growth of crystals particularly in difficult material systems such as silicon carbide will recognize that the details of a given technique can and will vary usually purposefully depending upon the relevant circumstances. Accordingly the descriptions given herein are most appropriately given in a general and schematic sense with the recognition that those persons of skill in this art will be able to carry out the improvements of the invention based on the disclosures herein without undue experimentation.

In describing the invention it will be understood that a number of techniques are disclosed. Each of these has individual benefit and each can also be used in conjunction with one or more or in some cases all of the other disclosed techniques. Accordingly for the sake of clarity this description will refrain from repeating every possible combination of the individual steps in an unnecessary fashion. Nevertheless the specification and claims should be read with the understanding that such combinations are entirely within the scope of the invention and the claims.

The susceptor is typically surrounded by insulation several portions of which are illustrated in . Although illustrates the insulation as being generally consistent in size and placement it will be understood and is recognized by those of skill in the art that the placement and amount of the insulation can be used to provide desired thermal gradients both axially and radially along the susceptor . Again for purposes of simplification these possible permutations are not illustrated herein.

The susceptor includes one or more portions for containing a silicon carbide powder source . Such a powder source is most commonly although not exclusively used in seeded sublimation growth techniques for silicon carbide. illustrates the powder source as being contained in a lower portion of the susceptor and this is one typical arrangement. As another familiar variation some systems distribute the source powder in a vertical cylindrical arrangement in which the source powder surrounds a larger portion of the interior of the susceptor than does the arrangement illustrated in . The invention described herein can be appropriately carried out using both types of equipment.

A silicon carbide seed is designated at and is typically placed in upper portions of the susceptor . The seed is preferably a monocrystalline SiC seed having a diameter of at least about 100 mm and having a micropipe density of less than about 25 cmon the surface. A growing crystal is deposited on the seed during the seeded sublimation growth.

A seed holder typically holds the seed in place with the seed holder being attached to the susceptor in an appropriate fashion. This can include various resting or threaded arrangements. In the orientation illustrated in the upper portions of the seed holder would typically include threads as would the uppermost portions of the susceptor preferably a graphite crucible so that the seed holder could be threaded into the top of the susceptor to hold the seed in the desired position. The seed holder is preferably a graphite seed holder.

It may be preferable to place the seed in the crucible while exerting minimal torsional forces on the seed to thereby prevent torsional forces from warping or bowing the crystal in a manner that would otherwise encourage undesired thermal differences across the seed .

In some embodiments it may be desirable to anneal the seed holder prior to attaching the seed Annealing the seed holder prior to sublimation growth prevents the seed holder from undergoing significant distortion during crystal growth at SiC sublimation temperatures Annealing the seed holder also minimizes or eliminates temperature differences across the seed that would otherwise tend to initiate and propagate defects in a growing crystal. A preferred process for annealing the seed holder includes annealing at temperatures at or about 2500 C. for at least about 30 minutes.

In some embodiments it may be preferred to include dopant atoms in the sublimation system . Introducing dopant gases to the seeded sublimation system incorporates dopant atoms in a growing crystal. Dopants are selected for their acceptor or donor capabilities. Donor dopants are those with n type conductivity and acceptor dopants are those with p type conductivity. Preferred dopant atoms include n type and p type dopant atoms. Especially preferred n type dopants include N P As Sb Bi and mixtures thereof. Especially preferred p type dopants include B Al Ga In Tl and mixtures thereof.

The general scheme for sublimation growth is set forth briefly in the Background portion of the specification as well as in other sources well known to those of ordinary skill in this art. Typically an electric current having a frequency to which the susceptor responds is passed through the induction coils to heat the graphite susceptor . The amount and placement of the insulation are selected to create a thermal gradient between the powder source and the growing crystal when the susceptor heats the powder source to sublimation temperatures which are typically above about 2000 C. The thermal gradient is established to maintain the temperature of the seed and thereafter a growing crystal near but below the temperature of the silicon carbide source to thereby thermodynamically encourage the vaporized species that are generated when silicon carbide sublimes Si SiC and SiC to condense first upon the seed crystal and thereafter upon the growing crystal e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 866 005.

After reaching the desired crystal size growth is terminated by reducing the temperature of the system to below about 1900 C. and raising the pressure to above about 400 torr.

It may be further desirable to anneal the crystal after completion of the sublimation growth process. The crystal may be annealed at temperatures at or above the growth temperature for a period greater than about 30 minutes.

For purposes of clarity the singular term thermal gradient will be used herein but it will be understood by those of skill in this art that several gradients can desirably co exist in the susceptor and can be subcategorized as axial and radial gradients or as a plurality of isotherms.

If the temperature gradients and other conditions pressure carrier gases etc. are properly maintained the overall thermodynamics will encourage the vaporized species to condense first on the seed and then on the growing crystal in the same polytype as the seed .

As generally noted in the Background the performance properties of electronic devices will typically improve as the crystal quality of the various device portions improves. Thus the reduced defect characteristics of wafers of the present invention similarly provide improved devices. In particular higher power higher current devices become increasingly available as the micropipe density drops to 20 cmor below.

Thus in another aspect the invention is a plurality of field effect transistors formed on low defect 100 mm silicon carbide wafers. Each field effect transistor includes a bulk single crystal silicon carbide substrate wafer of at least about 100 mm diameter and having a micropipe density of between about 7 and 22 cm.

In another aspect the invention is a plurality of metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs formed on low defect 100 mm silicon carbide substrate . is a schematic cross sectional illustration of a basic MOSFET structure. Each MOSFET includes a bulk single crystal silicon carbide substrate wafer of at least about 100 mm diameter and a micropipe density of less than 22 cm in some cases between about 7 and 22 cm and in some cases to date predictive less than 7 cm. The bulk single crystal substrate includes a respective first surface and second surface opposite one another. An epitaxial layer on the substrate has respective source channel and drain portions with the channel being controlled by the gate contact through the oxide layer . Respective source and drain contacts are on the source and drain portions . The structure and operation of MOSFETs and of combinations and variations of MOSFETs is well understood in this art and thus and its description are exemplary rather than limiting of the claimed invention.

With reference to in another aspect the invention is a plurality of metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs formed on low defect 100 mm silicon carbide. Each MESFET includes a bulk single crystal silicon carbide substrate wafer of at least about 100 mm and having a micropipe density of between about 7 and 22 cm. The substrate includes a respective first surface and second surface opposite one another. A conductive channel is located on the first surface of the substrate . Ohmic source and a drain contacts are located on the conductive channel . A metal gate contact is located between the source and drain on the conductive channel for forming an active channel when a bias is applied to the metal gate contact .

As is known in the art more than one type of device may be situated on a silicon carbide wafer in accordance with the present invention. Additional devices that may be included are junction field effect transistors hetero field effect transistors diodes and other devices known in the art. The structure and operation of these and other devices are well understood in this art and can be practiced using the substrates described and claimed herein without undue experimentation.

A series of SiC boules were formed according to the present invention. The micropipe density as measured by the above described counting method of each of these boules is shown in Table 1.

In the specification and the drawings typical embodiments of the invention have been disclosed. Specific terms have been used only in a generic and descriptive sense and not for purposes of limitation. The scope of the invention is set forth in the following claims.

