---

title: Interactive television program guide with remote access
abstract: An interactive television program guide with remote access is provided. The interactive television program guide is implemented on interactive television program guide equipment. A remote program guide access device is connected to the interactive television program guide equipment by a remote access link to provide a user with remote access to program guide functions. An interactive television program guide system based on multiple user television equipment devices in a single household is provided. The system provides a user with an opportunity to adjust program guide settings with a given one of the interactive television program guides. Program guide setting include features related to setting program reminders, profiles, program recording features, messaging features, favorites features, parental control features, program guide set up features (e.g., audio and video and language settings), etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768148&OS=08768148&RS=08768148
owner: United Video Properties, Inc.
number: 08768148
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130726
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 275 565 filed Oct. 18 2011 currently pending which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 927 814 filed Aug. 26 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 046 801 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 354 344 filed on Jul. 16 1999 now abandoned which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional application No. 60 093 292 filed Jul. 17 1998 now expired and U.S. Provisional application No. 60 097 527 filed Aug. 21 1998 now expired all of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This invention relates to interactive television program guide video systems and more particularly to interactive television program guide systems that provide remote access to program guide functionality.

Cable satellite and broadcast television systems provide viewers with a large number of television channels. Users have traditionally consulted printed television program schedules to determine the programs being broadcast at a particular time. More recently interactive electronic television program guides have been developed that allow television program information to be displayed on a user s television.

Interactive television program guides allow the user to navigate through television program listings using a remote control. In a typical program guide various groups of television program listings are displayed in predefined or user defined categories. Listings are typically displayed in a grid or table.

Interactive television program guides are typically implemented on set top boxes located in the homes of users. A typical set top box is connected to the user s television and videocassette recorder. The program guide system is therefore not portable. As a result the user cannot use the program guide to adjust program reminder settings to select programs for recording to purchase pay per view programs or to perform other program guide functions without that user being physically located in the same room in the home.

On line program guides allow users to view program listings using a web browser. However the on line program guides that are available on the Internet do not provide the versatility of in home program guides. For example on line program guides do not allow the user to set in home reminders for programming to adjust parental control settings or to select programs for recording on the user s videocassette recorder.

On line program guides have also been implemented that allow users to order pay per view programs. Such systems allow users to order programs via a web server as opposed to via the telephone or using impulse ordering. A third party takes orders via the internet bills the user and provides ordering information to the headend. The headend authorizes the user s set top to view the ordered program using conventional signal denial or signal scrambling systems without coordinating the ordering of the pay per view program with an in home guide. Ordering pay per view programs in this manner i.e. without coordinating the order with an in home guide does not provide users with many of the benefits of ordering pay per views through an in home guide such as upcoming program reminders or missed program reminders. Users are also not prevented from attempting to order a pay per view program with a guide after the program has been ordered.

Program guides that run on personal computers are also available. Such programs guides are useful for users who wish to view program listings information but who cannot readily access their set top box based program guide. For example another member of the user s household may be watching television and therefore dominating the use of the set top box and television. Because there is no way for the user of such a personal computer program guide to coordinate the operation of the personal computer program guide with the operation of the set top box program guide the user of a personal computer program guide is not able to use the personal computer program guide to set in home reminders for programming to adjust parental control settings to select programs for recording on the user s videocassette recorder or to purchase pay per view programs.

Presently existing program guide systems therefore require that the user be physically present in the home to access important program guide features such as program reminders parental control and program recording.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an interactive television program guide system in which the program guide may be remotely accessed by the user. Such a system may allow the user to access important features of the user s in home program guide from a remote location and set program guide settings for those features.

This invention relates to interactive television program guides and more particularly to techniques for providing interactive television program guide functionality on multiple devices within a household.

Families often have multiple televisions and set top boxes placed throughout the household. A family s household even may include multiple homes. Because there is no coordination between the program guides running on each of the various set top boxes in the household if a user adjusts the settings for a program guide on one set top box these settings are not communicated to the program guides on any of the other set top boxes in the household. If a parent wants to restrict access to certain channels on all the televisions in the household the parent must adjust the parental control settings on each set top box individually. Reminders and favorite channel settings must similarly be set for each program guide separately if a user desires to have such settings be in effect throughout the household. Messages sent from the cable operator can only be sent to a particular set top box. Some cable system subscriber management systems can allow a cable operator to manage all cable boxes within a home i.e. manage billing for individual locations within a home . However such systems do not allow user interaction with the cable operator.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a program guide system that allows a user to adjust to the user settings of a plurality of program guides at different locations within a household from a single location.

This and other objects of the present invention are accomplished in accordance with the principles of the present invention by providing an interactive television program guide system with remote access. A local interactive television program guide is implemented on interactive television program guide equipment. The interactive television program guide equipment is connected to one or more remote program guide access devices over a remote access link. A remote access interactive television program guide is implemented on the remote program guide access device. The remote program guide and remote program guide access devices provide users with the opportunity to remotely access features of the interactive television program guide on the interactive television program guide equipment and to remotely set program guide settings.

Any suitable interactive television program guide function or setting may be accessed. The remote access program guide may for example provide the user with an opportunity to remotely schedule a reminder for a program remotely view television program listings remotely select programming for recordings storage remotely play a stored program or a currently broadcasted program on the remote program guide access device remotely set and navigate through favorites e.g. favorite channels program categories services etc. and remotely set parental control settings.

The remote program guide access device may also provide the user with an opportunity to remotely perform additional functions such as sending and playing or displaying messages with the interactive television program guide polling the interactive program guide for status information and storing interactive television program guide data at the remote program guide access device.

Providing remote access to these and other features may allow users to control television related activity in ways and in situations in which the users could not do so before. A person who is caught in traffic in an automobile may for example access the program guide using appropriate voice commands to access listings for programs that the user anticipates he or she will not arrive home in time to view. The listings may be displayed on a screen or recited back to the user in synthesized voice listings. The user may select any such programs for recording on their videocassette recorder or other storage device in the home or on a server at a television distribution facility or other distribution facility. Systems in which users store programs on a remote server are described for example in Ellis et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 332 244 filed Jun. 11 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A parent may for example access the program guide while at work to see if a child is watching television. If the child should not be watching television the parent may cause the program guide to display a message to the child e.g. Go do your homework and then may prevent viewing via a parental control feature. On the other hand if television viewing is prevented by default e.g. prevented until the parent arrives home then the parent may remotely access the program guide to allow a child to watch television.

A person at work may for example receive a call from a spouse or other family member at home who explains to the person at work that the person at home cannot operate home television equipment as desired e.g. I can t program the VCR . The person at work may remotely access the program guide poll for equipment status information and perform the desired function.

If desired non program guide applications may be implemented on the user television equipment. Such non program guide applications may include for example a web browser application a home shopping application a game application an e mail application a chat application a banking application etc. These applications may be implemented on a set top box within the user television equipment. The user may adjust the settings of such a non program guide application using a remote access device.

Further features of the invention its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

These and other objects of the present invention are accomplished in accordance with the principles of the present invention by providing an interactive television program guide system for a household in which multiple interactive television program guides within the household are coordinated. In a typical system various users in the household use various pieces of user television equipment also called user television equipment devices . An interactive television program guide is implemented on each piece of user television equipment. Typical user television equipment may be a set top box on which a program guide application and non program guide applications run a videocassette recorder connected to the set top box for recording television programs and a television on which the program guide application may display various program guide display screens and the non program guide applications may display various non program guide display screens. Other suitable types of user television equipment may be based on personal computer televisions PC TVs or advanced television receivers such as high definition television HDTV receivers.

Each piece of user television equipment may be located in a different part of the home. For example one piece of equipment may be located in the parents bedroom. Another piece of equipment may be located in a child s bedroom. Additional pieces of equipment may be located in a family room kitchen living room etc.

Typical program guide features that may be provided by the program guides of this invention implemented on the user television equipment include features related to setting program reminders profiles program recording features messaging features favorites features parental control features program guide set up features e.g. video display settings language settings etc. and other suitable program guide features. The system coordinates operation of the program guides so that for example a user may adjust his favorite channel settings on a program guide operating in the living room and those settings will be effective on the program guide operating in the master bedroom and may therefore be used by that program guide.

A parent may adjust parental control settings using the program guide in the parents room and the system may apply those settings to all program guides in the household. Parents may use the parental control feature to control the viewing of their children even though the children may be viewing television using multiple user television equipment devices. For example parents may establish parental controls to lock various programs and services from a master location and the system will apply these parental controls to the various pieces of user television equipment throughout the household. The ability to establish favorite channels to set reminders and to control other program guide settings at one location and to have those settings applied to multiple locations throughout the household may be used by both the parents and their children.

A user may adjust his favorite settings on a program guide in the family room and may direct the system to apply those settings to the program guides in the family room and the living room. A child may set reminders for certain programs using the program guide in the family room and may direct the system to apply those settings only to the program guide running in that child s bedroom. A user may select a program for recording using a program guide in the living room and may request that the videocassette recorder in the family room be used to record the selected program. A user may receive messages from a cable system operator and may direct the system to make certain types of those messages available to the program guide located in all rooms but the children s room. A user may adjust language or audio settings using one program guide and have those settings apply globally.

As these examples serve to illustrate the settings for any suitable program guide features may be adjusted using the program guide at one location in a household and applied by the system to selected other program guides in the household.

The program guides may be linked using any suitable topologies and communication protocols. For example the various pieces of user television equipment may be interconnected using a tree bus or ring topology. One piece of user television equipment may be designated as a primary device and other pieces of user television equipment may be designated as secondary devices. The primary and secondary devices may be connected in a star arrangement. A remote server may be used to implement certain program guide features and the pieces of user television equipment in the home may act as clients.

If desired non program guide applications may be implemented on the user television equipment. Such non program guide applications may include for example a web browser application a home shopping application a game application an e mail application a chat application a banking application etc. These applications may be implemented on a set top box within the user television equipment. The user may adjust the settings of such a non program guide application at one set top box. The system coordinates the operation of the various set top boxes so that the adjusted settings may be used by similar applications running on other set top boxes in the household.

An illustrative system in accordance with the present invention is shown in . Main facility provides interactive television program guide data from program guide data source to interactive television program guide equipment via communications link . There are preferably numerous pieces or installations of interactive television program guide equipment although only one is shown in to avoid over complicating the drawing. Link may be a satellite link a telephone network link a cable or fiber optic link a microwave link a combination of such links an Internet link or any other suitable communications path.

The interactive television program guide data transmitted by main facility to interactive television program guide equipment may include television program listings data e.g. program times channels titles and descriptions and other program guide data for additional services other than television program listings e.g. pay per view information weather information associated Internet web links computer software etc. . Interactive television program guide equipment may be connected to remote program guide access device via remote access link . Interactive television program guide equipment may have more than one associated remote program guide access device although only one such device is shown in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing.

An interactive television program guide is implemented on interactive television program guide equipment . Four illustrative arrangements for interactive television program guide equipment is shown in . As shown in interactive television program guide equipment may include program guide distribution equipment located at television distribution facility and user television equipment . Television distribution facility may be any suitable distribution facility e.g. a cable system headend a broadcast distribution facility a satellite television distribution facility or any other suitable type of television distribution facility . Television distribution facility may distribute program guide data that it received from main facility to multiple users via communications path .

Program guide distribution equipment may be any equipment suitable for providing program guide data to user television equipment . Program guide distribution equipment may include for example suitable transmission hardware for distributing program guide data on a television channel sideband in the vertical blanking interval of a television channel using an in band digital channel using an out of band digital signal or by any other suitable data transmission technique. Video signals e.g. television programming may also be provided by program guide distribution equipment to user television equipment over communications paths on multiple television channels.

In the system configuration of remote program guide access device is connected to user television equipment . Television distribution facility may distribute program guide data to user television equipment . User television equipment may transfer the program guide data to remote program guide access device . User television equipment may also transfer additional data that may be necessary for allowing remote program guide access device to access various functions of the interactive program guide e.g. reminder information parental control settings favorite channel settings user profiles etc. . Any suitable distribution scheme may be used. For example user television equipment may provide the data to remote program guide access device continuously periodically using a client server based approach using a polling scheme or using any other suitable approach. Remote program guide access device may store the data if suitable for a particular transmission scheme.

In the system configuration of remote program guide access device is connected to television distribution facility via communications device . In this approach television distribution facility may distribute program guide data to remote program guide access device directly. Television distribution facility may also distribute additional data from user television equipment that may be necessary for allowing remote program guide access device to access various functions of the interactive program guide e.g. reminder information parental control settings favorite channel settings user profiles etc. . Television distribution facility may provide the data to remote program guide access device continuously periodically using a client server based approach using a polling scheme or using any other suitable approach. Remote program guide access device may store the data if suitable for a particular transmission scheme.

Remote program guide access device may for example communicate with user television equipment over remote access link as shown in . Requests commands or other suitable communications may be provided by remote program guide access device to user television equipment and then forwarded by user television equipment to program guide server . Program guide data or display screens provided by program guide server may be forwarded by user television equipment to remote program guide access device .

Alternatively remote program guide access device may for example communicate with program guide server over remote access link via communications device as shown in . Appropriate commands requests or other suitable communications may be transmitted by remote program guide access device for processing by program guide server . If any changes to program guide settings are made e.g. a change to the parental control settings program guide server may for example update a local program guide client running on user television equipment with the necessary information.

In the arrangements illustrated in and television distribution facility may have communications device for communicating with remote program guide access device over remote access link . Communications device may be for example a communications port e.g. a serial port parallel port universal serial bus USB port etc. modem e.g. any suitable analog or digital modem cellular modem or cable modem network interface card e.g. an Ethernet card token ring card etc. wireless transceiver e.g. an infrared transceiver or other suitable transceiver or other suitable communications device.

As shown in interactive television program guide equipment communicates with remote program guide access device via remote access link . In practice remote program guide access device may be connected to user television equipment as shown in and television distribution facility as shown in connected to both as indicated in or may communicate with remote program guide server as shown in via remote access link . Remote access link may be any suitable wired or wireless communications path or paths over which digital or analog communications may take place between interactive television program guide equipment and remote program guide access device .

Each user has user television equipment for displaying the television program listings information and other program guide data using a local interactive television program guide. There are typically multiple pieces of user television equipment and multiple associated communications paths although only one piece of user television equipment and communications path are shown in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing. Television distribution facility may distribute television programming to user television equipment via communications path . If desired television programming may be provided over separate communications paths not shown .

For clarity the present invention is illustrated unless otherwise indicated in connection with a system arrangement in which program guide data is distributed from a main facility to an interactive television program guide implemented on user television equipment via a television distribution facility. Other suitable systems involve arrangements in which data is distributed to a program guide on user television equipment using other suitable distribution schemes such as schemes involving data transmission over the Internet or the like. If desired the interactive television program guide application may be implemented using a client server architecture in which the primary processing power for the application is provided by a server located at for example the television distribution facility or the main facility e.g. program guide server and user television equipment acts as a client processor as illustrated by and . Alternatively the interactive television program guide may obtain program guide data from the Internet. On line program guides are described for example in Boyer et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 938 028 filed Sep. 18 1997 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

An illustrative arrangement for user television equipment is shown in . User television equipment of receives video and data from television distribution facility at input . During normal television viewing the user tunes set top box to a desired television channel. The signal for that television channel is then provided at video output . The signal supplied at output is typically either a radio frequency RF signal on a predefined channel e.g. channel 3 or 4 or a analog demodulated video signal but may also be a digital signal provided to television on an appropriate digital bus e.g. a bus using the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 standard not shown . The video signal at output is received by optional secondary storage device .

Secondary storage device can be any suitable type of analog or digital program storage device or player e.g. a videocassette recorder a digital video disc DVD player a hard disk based storage device etc. . Program recording and other features may be controlled by set top box using control path . If secondary storage device is a videocassette recorder for example a typical control path involves the use of an infrared transmitter coupled to the infrared receiver in the videocassette recorder that normally accepts commands from a remote control such as remote control . Remote control may be used to control set top box secondary storage device and television .

The interactive television program guide may run on set top box on television if television has suitable processing circuitry and memory on secondary storage device or on optional digital storage device if they have suitable processing circuitry and memory or on a suitable analog or digital receiver connected to television . The interactive television program guide may also run cooperatively on both television and set top box . Interactive television application systems in which a cooperative interactive television program guide application runs on multiple devices are described for example in Ellis U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 186 598 filed Nov. 5 1998 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

If desired the user may record programs and program data in digital form on optional digital storage device . Digital storage device may be a writable optical storage device such as a DVD player capable of handling recordable DVD discs a magnetic storage device such as a disk drive or digital tape or any other digital storage device. Interactive television program guide systems that have digital storage devices are described for example in Hassell et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 157 256 filed Sep. 17 1998 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Digital storage device can be contained in set top box or it can be an external device connected to set top box via an output port and appropriate interface. If necessary processing circuitry in set top box formats the received video audio and data signals into a digital file format. Preferably the file format is an open file format such as the Motion Pictures Expert Group MPEG MPEG 2 standard. The resulting data is streamed to digital storage device via an appropriate bus e.g. a bus using the Institute Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 standard and is stored on digital storage device . Digital storage device and secondary storage device may be integrated into a sophisticated set top box if desired.

Television receives video signals from secondary storage device via communications path . The video signals on communications path may either be generated by secondary storage device when playing back a prerecorded storage medium e.g. a videocassette or a recordable digital video disc by digital storage device when playing back a pre recorded digital medium may be passed through from set top box may be provided directly to television from set top box if secondary storage device is not included in user television equipment or may be received directly by television . During normal television viewing the video signals provided to television correspond to the desired channel to which the user has tuned with set top box . Video signals may also be provided to television by set top box when set top box is used to play back information stored on digital storage device .

Set top box may have communications device for communicating with remote program guide access device over remote access link . Communications device may be for example a communications port e.g. a serial port parallel port universal serial bus USE port etc. modem e.g. any suitable analog or digital modem cellular modem or cable modem network interface card e.g. an Ethernet card token ring card etc. wireless transceiver e.g. an infrared transceiver or other suitable transceiver or other suitable communications device. Television may also have such a suitable communications device connected to remote access link if desired.

If desired there may be multiple installations of user television equipment within the home connected via an in home network. This may provide for coordinating the functionality of multiple guides within the home. Systems in which the functionality of multiple guides are coordinated are described for example in concurrently filed Ellis et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 356 161 filed Jul. 16 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In such systems remote program guide access device may be connected via remote access link to one of the guides and may provide users with the ability to remotely coordinate the functions of all of the guides.

A more generalized embodiment of user television equipment of is shown in . As shown in program guide data from television distribution facility is received by control circuitry of user television equipment . Control circuitry may also send data and commands or requests back to television distribution facility . The functions of control circuitry may be provided using the set top box arrangement of and . Alternatively these functions may be integrated into an advanced television receiver personal computer television PC TV or any other suitable arrangement. If desired a combination of such arrangements may be used.

The user controls the operation of user television equipment with user interface . User interface may be a pointing device wireless remote control keyboard touch pad voice recognition system or any other suitable user input device. To watch television the user instructs control circuitry to display a desired television channel on display device . Display device may be a television monitor or other suitable display device. To access the features of the program guide the user instructs the program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment to generate a main menu or other desired program guide display screen for display on display device .

User television equipment of may also have communications device for supporting communications between user television equipment and remote program guide access device over remote access link . Communications device may be a communications port e.g. a serial port parallel port universal serial bus USB port etc. modem e.g. any suitable analog or digital standard cellular or cable modem network interface card e.g. an Ethernet card Token ring card etc. wireless transceiver e.g. an infrared radio or other suitable analog or digital transceiver or other suitable communications device.

User television equipment may also have secondary storage device digital storage device or any suitable combination thereof for recording programming. Secondary storage device can be any suitable type of analog or digital program storage device e.g. a videocassette recorder a digital video disc DVD etc. . Program recording and other features may be controlled by control circuitry . Digital storage device can be for example a writable optical storage device such as a DVD player capable of handling recordable DVD discs a magnetic storage device such as a disk drive or digital tape or any other digital storage device.

An illustrative arrangement for remote program guide access device is shown in . As shown in remote program guide access device may be any suitable personal computer PC portable computer e.g. a notebook computer palmtop computer handheld personal computer H PC display remote touch screen remote automobile PC personal digital assistant PDA or other suitable computer based device. Remote program guide access device may have user interface processing circuitry storage and communications device . User interface may be any suitable input or output device or system and may include a pointing device keyboard touch pad touch screen pen stylus voice recognition system mouse trackball cathode ray tube CRT monitor liquid crystal display LCD voice synthesis processor and speaker or any other suitable user input or output device. Processing circuitry may include any suitable processor such an Intel 486 or Pentium

Remote program guide access device may also have communications device . Communications device may be any device suitable for supporting communications between remote program access device and interactive television program guide equipment over link such as a communications port e.g. a serial port parallel port universal serial bus USB port etc. modem e.g. any suitable analog or digital standard modem or cellular modem network interface card e.g. an Ethernet card token ring card etc. wireless transceiver e.g. an infrared radio or other suitable analog or digital transceiver or other suitable communications device.

Remote access link may include any suitable transmission medium. Link may include for example a serial or parallel cable a dial up telephone line a computer network or Internet link e.g. 10Base2 10Base 5 10BaseT 100BaseT 10BaseF T1 T3 etc. an in home network link an infrared link a radio frequency link a satellite link any other suitable transmission link or suitable combination of such links. Any suitable transmission or access scheme may be used such as standard serial or parallel communications Ethernet Token Ring Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Circuit Switched Cellular CSC Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD RAM mobile data Global System for Mobile communications GSM time division multiple access TDMA code division multiple access CDMA any other suitable transmission or access scheme or any suitable combination thereof. Preferably remote access link is bidirectional. If desired however certain limited program guide functions may be accessed using a unidirectional link. An advantage of using a unidirectional scheme for link is that such schemes are generally less complicated and then less expensive than bidirectional links.

Remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment may communicate over remote access link using any suitable network and transport layer protocols if desired. Remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment may communicate for example using a protocol stack which includes Sequenced Packet Exchange Internetwork Packet Exchange SPX IPX layers Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP layers Appletalk Transaction Protocol Datagram Delivery Protocol ATP DDP layers or any other suitable network and transport layer protocols or combination of protocols.

Remote program guide access device may communicate with interactive television program guide equipment using any suitable scheme. Remote program guide access device may for example connect to interactive television program guide equipment using a terminal emulation scheme such as VT100 terminal emulation and access the interactive television program guide as if it were a dumb terminal. Remote program guide access device may for example run a standard remote access client such as a Windows

Program guide server may in turn interact with the user s client device e.g. user television equipment . If the program guide is implemented on user television equipment of program guide equipment as shown in Internet service system or other suitable equipment at television distribution facility that is connected to Internet service system may interact with user television equipment directly or via program guide distribution equipment when supporting communications between the program guide and the remote program guide access device. If the program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment is a client server guide as shown in Internet service system may interact with program guide server when supporting communications between the program guide and the remote program guide access device . Alternatively Internet service system and program guide server may be the same device or system.

In an illustrative system configuration using Internet service system remote program guide access device is a user s personal computer at work Internet service system is a web server at a cable system headend and user television equipment at the user s home contains a set top box on which the user s program guide is implemented. Using this arrangement the user may access features of the program guide such as setting reminders or notifications viewing listings program recording setting favorites parental control sending messages polling for status or any other suitable function. For example if a child in the user s home desires permission to watch a parentally controlled program while the user is a at work the user may access a suitable web page provided by Internet service system that allows the user to enter a password and adjust the program guide parental control settings. The changed settings allowing the child access to the desired program are then automatically transferred from Internet service system to user television equipment while the user is still at work.

As another example the user at work may interact with the program guide on user television equipment via Internet service system to select programs for recording on the user s home videocassette recorder or to schedule program reminders that will appear on the user s home television or remote program guide access device just before a program is broadcast.

A remote access interactive television program guide may for example be implemented on remote program guide access device . The remote access interactive television program guide may communicate with the interactive television program guide that is implemented on interactive television program guide equipment herein referred to as a local interactive television program guide. The remote access and local guide may for example be the same guide but compiled to run on two different platforms and to communicate in a manner or manners discussed herein. Alternatively the remote access guide may be a client guide that communicates with the local guide i.e. a server guide . In still another suitable approach the two guides may be different guides that communicate in a manner or manners discussed disclosed herein. Generally although not necessarily e.g. when remote program guide access device is a personal computer as shown in the remote access interactive television program guide may have a reduced or limited functionality when compared to the functionality of the local interactive television program guide. Accordingly the remote access guide may require less processing power and memory of remote program guide access device than the local guide requires of interactive television program guide equipment .

Program guide information e.g. reminder information listings information recording information message information status information parental control settings audio and video status or polling information user information favorites settings or any other information necessary for remotely providing program guide functionality may be exchanged and settings set between the two interactive television program guides over remote access link using one or more access communications.

Access communications may include for example commands requests messages remote procedure calls e.g. using a proxy stub pair or any other suitable client server or peer to peer communication. Access communications may also involve for example complex communications between application constructs running on remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment . Objects running in the two versions of the program guides for example may communicate using an Object Request Broker ORB . The program guide information may for example be encapsulated as component object model COM objects and persisted to files that are transmitted over remote access link . In another approach access communications may include HTML formatted markup language documents e.g. web pages that are exchanged between remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment via Internet service system .

Program guide information may be transferred and program guide settings set between remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment using any suitable application layer protocol if desired. If link is an Internet link for example program guide functionality may be accessed by for example using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment may for example transfer program guide information as files using the File Transfer Protocol FTP or Trivial File Transfer Protocol TFTP running over a TCP IP protocol stack. Any suitable file transfer protocol based on any suitable protocol stack may be used.

Remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment may also exchange program guide data and other information as messages using any suitable messaging scheme or messaging application programming interface API . Program guide data and other information may for example be encapsulated into e mail messages and transferred using the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Messaging API MAPI or other suitable messaging protocol or API.

Remote program guide access device and the interactive television program guide implemented on interactive program guide equipment may exchange access communications to provide the user with access to program guide functionality as if the program guide were running locally on remote program guide access device . Remote program guide access device may provide a user with access to any number of program guide functions such as accessing programming information scheduling reminders for programs setting and navigating through favorite channels setting parental control settings scheduling programming recordings or any other program guide function to the extent allowed by the resources of remote program guide access device . If desired remote program guide access device may allow the user to perform other program guide functions such as determining the status of user television equipment sending messages to user television equipment interacting with peripherals connected to user television equipment and other suitable functions.

When the user wishes to access the features of the program guide via remote program guide access device the user may issue an appropriate command using user interface . For example if the user wishes to view programming information a guide key on user interface can be used. If for example user interface includes a microphone and uses suitable voice recognition software the user may speak a predetermined command into the microphone. Such an interface is especially useful in environments where remote program guide access device must be operated without the use of one s hands as with an automobile PC.

When possible remote program guide access device may present program guide data and other information to the user as they are normally presented by user television equipment . In practice appropriate differences in presentation may occur depending on the interface devices used in user television equipment and remote program guide access device e.g. user television equipment may use a television to output listings and remote program guide access device may include a voice recognition and synthesis system to output synthesized voice listings .

When a user indicates a desire to access program guide features by issuing an appropriate command to remote program guide access device remote program guide access device may for example access stored program guide information or obtain program guide information from interactive television program guide equipment via remote access link using any of the approaches already described and generate an appropriate display screen for display using user interface . Alternatively the local interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment may receive one or more access communications from remote program guide access device over link generate the appropriate program guide display screen and send the program guide display screen back to remote program guide access device for display on user interface . In another embodiment a remote access guide may run on remote program guide access device and issue access communications over remote access link as if it were running as a client locally on interactive television program guide equipment . In another embodiment remote program guide access device may access a web site and view web pages that contain program guide information.

The remote access program guide running on remote program guide access device may provide a user with an opportunity to remotely access program listings. A person driving an automobile for example may issue a suitable vocal command that is recognized by interface . The remote access program guide may issue one or more access communications to the local program guide which in turn supplies program listings information back to remote program guide access device . User interface may for example provide the listings to the user in synthesized voice outputs.

The program listings may also for example be displayed in a program listings screen by a suitable display device. A program listings screen may contain one or more lists of programs organized according to one or more organization criteria e.g. by program type theme or any other predefined or user defined and selectable criteria and sorted in various ways e.g. alphabetically . One approach is to organize program listings into a program listings grid. As shown in program listings display screen may contain program listings area . Program listings area may display television program listings in any suitable format such as any suitable list table or grid.

Program listings grid may have movable cell highlight region which highlights the current grid cell. The user may position highlight region by entering appropriate commands with user interface . For example if user input interface has a keypad the user can position highlight region using up down left and right cursor keys. Remote program listings may also be panned left right up and down by positioning highlight region using the cursor keys on user interface . Alternatively a touch sensitive screen trackball voice commands or other suitable device may be used to move highlight region or to select program listings without the use of highlight region . In still another approach the user may speak the title of a television program listing into a voice request recognition system which will issue an appropriate command or request to remote program guide access device . Any other suitable approach may also be used.

After a user selects a program listing the remote access program guide may provide the user with the opportunity to access a number of program guide features. For example the user may access additional information typically text or graphics but possibly video if desired about the listing schedule an associated program reminder schedule an associated program for recording by one or more of digital storage device secondary storage device storage or program guide server .

Program listings may also be displayed for the user in a list. illustrates a program listings display screen having a program listings list displayed in accordance with the principles of the present invention. Scrollable program listings lists may display program listings in subsets according to predefined or user selected organization criteria. Any suitable organization criteria and sorting scheme may be used. Scrollable program listings list of for example organizes program listings according to program type and then sorts the listings alphabetically in each subset. The television program listings display screen of also has movable cell highlight region for moving within the list and selecting listings.

The remote access program guide may also provide a user with the opportunity to remotely schedule program reminders when the user indicates a desire to set a program reminder e.g. by pressing a reminder button on user interface selecting an on screen reminder button issuing an appropriate vocal command etc. . The remote access program guide may transmit one or more access communications to the local interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment to schedule the reminder. Alternatively the remote access program guide may for example store a reminder locally on storage of remote program guide access device . Information indicating the user who set the reminder may also be stored on interactive program guide equipment or storage . Reminders may also be scheduled by a user with the local guide transmitted to remote program guide access device and displayed by the remote access guide on remote program guide access device .

At an appropriate time before the selected program is scheduled to air e.g. a predefined user selectable number of minutes hours or days a reminder may be issued by the local or remote interactive television program guides or both. The reminder may be issued on all remote program guide access devices available to the user and may be displayed e.g. in the form of a pop up window or message on user television equipment . If a reminder for a program is to be displayed on the user s home television the reminder may be displayed just before the beginning of the program. If a reminder for a program is to be displayed on remote program guide access device the reminder may be displayed much earlier e.g. several hours before the program .

In another approach reminders may be sent as e mail messages from the interactive television program guide to remote program guide access device . Interactive program guide systems in which reminders are sent to users via e mail are described for example in Boyer et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 987 740 filed Dec. 9 1997 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In still another approach user interface may include an alphanumeric pager among other suitable devices for providing bi directional communications with the program guide via remote access link . The interactive program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment may phone an automatic paging service e.g. by using a suitable modem and communications software and issue a message similar to the one contained in notification . An illustrative reminder for display on display device or user interface is shown in .

The remote access program guide may also provide a user with the opportunity to remotely access and adjust the parental control settings of the local interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment . The remote access program guide for example may provide users with an opportunity to block potentially objectionable programs or channels using a parental control code e.g. a personal identification number PIN code . Users my also selectively unlock blocked channels or programs. If desired the user may remotely access parental control settings related to blocking the display of potentially objectionable program listings.

The remote access program guide may obtain parental control information e.g. which channels services programs genres or types of program listings may be locked maximum rating information PIN information etc. from the local program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment over remote access link in any suitable manner. Remote program guide access device may if desired store parental control information on storage . Information indicating the user who accessed and adjusted parental control settings may be stored by the program guide or remote program guide access device .

Remote program guide access device may provide a user with the opportunity to remotely parentally control television programming by for example providing the user with the opportunity to select a television program listing and issue an appropriate command using user interface e.g. by pressing a displayed lock button using a pointing device or touch sensitive screen issuing an appropriate vocal command etc. . Remote program guide access device may indicate to a user that a channel service program or genre is locked by for example generating an appropriate notice icon synthesized voice response message or any other suitable indication. illustrate the use of lock icon for indicating for example that television service ADU is locked.

The remote access program guide may also provide users with an opportunity to remotely access interactive television program guide functionality related to user preferences or favorites settings. For example remote program guide access device may access features for setting up and navigating through favorite channels or programs. Interactive television program guide systems in which program guide data is displayed according to preference profiles are described for example in Ellis et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 034 934 filed Mar. 4 1998 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The remote access program guide may obtain information on the user s preferences e.g. which channels or programs are favorites favorite themes likes and dislikes etc. from the local interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment in any suitable manner. The remote access program guide may if desired store favorites information on storage may provide the user with an opportunity to remotely adjust channel settings and other preferences based on the favorites information. Remote program guide access device may transmit changed or new favorites information to interactive television program equipment via remote access link using one or more access communications. Information indicating the user who changed the profiles may also be stored by the local or remote access program guides.

The information on the user s preferences may be used by the local and remote access interactive program guides to navigate through favorite channels and display television program listings. shows an illustrative program listings display screen that may be displayed by the remote access program guide on remote program guide access device using user interface . The display screen includes a number of channels that have been selected as favorites e.g. channels 2 4 7 47 and 48 . Alternatively remote program guide access device may for example display television program listings in a grid table or list while highlighting favorite channels or preferred programs. A user may be provided with the opportunity to scroll between favorite listings or channels by issuing an appropriate command using user interface . In still another suitable approach remote program guide access device may display program guide data for only those programs or channels that are of interest to users as defined by the profiles.

User preference profiles may also be used to limit the amount of data provided to remote program guide access device and thereby tend to minimize the bandwidth requirements of remote access link . Data filtering may be performed for example by the local interactive guide according to the user profiles when transferring data to remote program guide access device . Only data for those programs or channels that are of interest to the user may be transferred if desired. Alternatively data filtering may be performed for example by program guide server or Internet service system .

The remote access program guide may also provide the user with the opportunity to remotely schedule recordings using the local interactive program guide. The user may for example select a program listing using user interface and issue an appropriate command e.g. pushing an on screen button issuing an appropriate voice command etc. . The remote access program guide may respond by sending one or more access communications to the local interactive program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment with the remote program guide access device to record the program associated with the selected listing when the program is aired. The local program guide may store the program on secondary storage device digital storage device or on storage of remote program guide access device . Information indicating the user who scheduled a program for recording may also be stored by the program guide or remote program guide access device . If the programming is stored on storage it may be transmitted to remote program guide access device in any suitable format e.g. as National Television Standards Committee NTSC video as MPEG 2 files etc. and may be converted to a digital format by a suitable analog to digital converter in remote program guide access device if necessary not shown . Any suitable transmission scheme may be used such as using FTP if files are transferred for example across an Internet link. Programs may also be recorded by program guide server . Program guide systems in which user selected programs are stored by a program guide server are described for example in above mentioned Ellis et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 332 244 filed Jun. 11 1999.

If desired program series may be recorded. Interactive television program guide systems in which program series are recorded are described for example in Knudson et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 330 792 filed Jun. 11 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Program guide information may also be stored by the remote access interactive television program guide on storage . User settings and profiles video clips and detailed descriptive information may also be stored. Storing programming or data on storage may be appropriate in situations for example where the data is required to be maintained across a power outage or if the volume of data that the interactive program guide must store during normal operation is more than interactive television program guide equipment can handle.

The remote access program guide may also provide a user with an opportunity to remotely order pay per view programs and packages. The remote access program guide may for example provide the user with an opportunity to select a pay per view program or package listing using user interface e.g. by using a pointing device touch sensitive screen or issuing a voice command to select a pay per view program listing . In response to the user command remote program guide access device may obtain pay per view information e.g. price ordering information time event code etc. from the interactive television program guide running on interactive television program guide equipment via remote access link . Alternatively the pay per view information may have been provided to remote program guide access device by the local guide program guide server or Internet Service system .

The remote access program guide may provide the pay per view information to the user using user interface and may provide the user with the opportunity to order the pay per view selection. Once the user issues an appropriate command to remote program guide access device to order the pay per view selection the remote access guide on remote program guide access device may indicate to the local guide implemented interactive program guide equipment e.g. via one or more access communications the program that the user wishes to order. The local interactive program guide may respond by ordering the pay per view program from television distribution facilitating or some other distribution facility. Alternatively the remote access program guide may order the pay per view program from television distribution facility or some other distribution facility and indicate the ordered pay pay view to the local guide so that ordering related functions may be coordinated.

Remotely ordering pay per view programs via the local interactive guide as opposed to ordering pay per view programs directly from a headend by phone Internet or impulse ordering using the remote access guide may allow the local program guide to perform functions that it would not ordinarily be able to perform. Ordering a pay per view through the local guide as opposed to directly from television distribution facility may allow the local guide to for example parentally control the ordering of a program inform the user that the program is about to start inform the user that the user has missed an ordered pay per view program provide the user with an opportunity to reorder the program or any other suitable function associated with ordering a pay per view program.

The remote access program guide may also provide the user with an opportunity to remotely access video and audio either together or separately that is being distributed to the local interactive television program guide or which has been stored by the local interactive television program guide on user television equipment or at a remote server. In response to an appropriate user command on user interface device the remote access program guide may for example query the interactive television program guide for media directory information stored on digital storage device or secondary storage device . Interactive television program guides which store programming using a digital media directory are described for example in the previously mentioned Ellis et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 157 256.

The remote access program guide may provide the user with the opportunity to select a directory entry or may for example provide the user with an opportunity to select a program listing of a television program that is being broadcast. In response to either selection the remote access program guide may issue an appropriate access communication to the interactive television program guide to play back or tune to the selection and transmit it back to remote program guide access device over remote access link . Remote program guide access device may play the video or audio for the user. In one approach for example remote program guide access device may provide a user with the opportunity to access audio from a digital music channel which is received by interactive television program guide equipment and play the audio on a speaker or by using an audio device that may be contained in user interface e.g. a car stereo .

Video and audio may be transmitted from interactive television program guide equipment to remote program guide access device over remote access link in any suitable format e.g. as NTSC video as MPEG 2 files using the M bone etc. and may be converted to a digital format if necessary by a suitable analog to digital converter in remote program guide access device not shown . Any suitable transmission scheme may be used.

The remote access program guide may also provide a user with the opportunity to poll the local interactive television program guide to determine the status of interactive television program guide equipment or more specifically user television equipment . For example the remote access program guide may obtain information regarding whether the interactive television program guide is in use what channel user television equipment is tuned to the title of the current program the rating of the current program the status of remote access link available devices etc. Any suitable scheme may be used such as using a Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP approach in which a management client process runs as part of the interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment and in which a management server process runs on remote program guide access device .

When the user issues an appropriate command using user interface device e.g. by pressing a button on a key pad selecting an on screen option or button issuing an appropriate voice command etc. the remote access program guide may respond by issuing an access communication to the interactive program guide over remote access link using remote program guide access device . The interactive program guide may respond by transmitting the desired status information back to remote program guide access device over remote access link or by transmitting a display screen if appropriate . The remote access program guide may indicate the status of interactive television program guide equipment on remote program guide access device using any suitable indicator e.g. a display screen synthesized voice responses etc. . An illustrative status display screen for display using user interface is shown in .

The remote access program guide may also provide a user with an opportunity to control user television equipment remotely. A user may for example position highlight region over a setting select the setting and change its value. The user may for example change the current channel the current volume or control user television equipment in any other suitable manner.

The remote access program guide may also provide a user with the opportunity to send audio graphical and text messages to the local interactive program guide for playing or display by user television equipment . For example the remote access program guide may receive a voice message from the user using user interface device . That voice message may be converted to a digital signal by an analog to digital converter in remote program guide access device if necessary and sent to the interactive television program guide over remote access link . Once received the local interactive television program guide may play or display the message on user television equipment . If desired messages created by a user on the local interactive television program guide or by an operator of television distribution facility may be sent to remote program guide access device . The remote access program guide may in turn provide the messages to the user using remote program guide access device .

The remote access program guide may for example obtain a user command from the user that indicates a desired program guide function using remote program guide access device substep and then remotely provide the indicated program guide function to the user. A user may indicate a desired function by entering an appropriate command using user interface . The user may for example enter a command using a keyboard speak a command into a microphone select an on screen button using a pointing device or any other suitable approach.

The indicated program guide function may be remotely provided to the user audibly substep using for example a speaker car stereo or other device capable of producing sounds that suitably indicate to the user program guide information. Alternatively the indicated program guide function may be remotely provided to the user visually at substep for example by using a monitor LCD or other display device.

Establishing the remote access link between the remote access program guide and the local interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment as indicated by step and providing the user with an opportunity to remotely access functions of the local interactive television program guide over remote access link step may depend on the configuration of the interactive television program guide system. show illustrative variations of steps and of for establishing remote access link and for providing the user with remote access to program guide functions for the illustrative systems of and 

Remote access link may be established between the remote access program guide and the interactive television program guide via remote program guide access device and a communications device in television distribution facility or other location for a system configured as shown in . Providing remote access to the functions of the local interactive television program guide in such a system may for example involve the steps shown in . At step for example remote access link may be established with a communications device in television distribution facility . The remote access program guide may for example provide the user with the opportunity to remotely access functions of the program guide with a communications device in the television distribution facility at step

If television distribution facility includes a program guide server as shown in remote access link may be established between the remote access program guide and the interactive television program guide via remote program guide access device and a communications device in television distribution facility as indicated by step of . At step remote program guide access device may for example provide the user with the opportunity to remotely access the functions of the program guide over remote access link with a communications device in distribution facility .

Steps involved in establishing remote access link in on line program guide systems that communicate with the remote access program guide such as in systems of and are shown in and . In the on line program guide system of for example remote access link may be established between the local interactive television program guide and the remote access program guide with Internet service system step . In the client server on line program guide system of for example remote access link may be established between the local interactive television program guide and the remote access program guide with an Internet service system in contact with program guide server step . The remote access program guide may provide the user with the opportunity to remotely access the functions of the program guide at steps and of and respectively.

Establishing remote access link at step of may also involve exchanging one or more access communications between the interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment and the remote access program guide implemented on remote program guide access device as indicated by substep of . Access communicators may include any client server or peer to peer communication construct suitable for providing program guide information across remote access link . Access communications may include for example requests commands messages or remote procedure calls as indicated by substeps and respectively.

Access communications may also involve complex communications between application constructs running on remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment . Access communications may for example be object based as indicated by substep . Objects running in two program guides for example may communicate using an Object Request Broker ORB . The program guide information may for example be encapsulated as component object model COM objects and persisted to files that are transmitted over remote access link . Access communications may also include for example HTML formatted markup language documents e.g. Web pages that are exchanged between remote program guide access device and interactive television program guide equipment via Internet service system as indicated by substep .

At step the program listings information may be provided to the user. The program listings information may be displayed for the user by the remote access program guide in a table listing grid or other suitable construct using user interface substep . Alternatively program listings information may be provided audibly for the user by using for example a speaker substep .

At step the remote access program guide may provide the user with the opportunity to select a program listing. In response to such a selection the remote access program guide may provide the user with the opportunity to access other remote program guide features for the listing e.g. displays additional info schedule a program reminder record parental control order the program if it is a pay per view program etc. .

At step the program reminder is generated at an appropriate time e.g. a predefined or user selectable number of minutes hours or days before a program is scheduled to air. The reminder may be generated by the local interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment or may be generated by the remote interactive television program guide. The program reminder may for example be sent to the user via e mail or alphanumeric page as indicated by substeps and respectively.

The remote access program guide may provide the user with the opportunity to parentally control programming e.g. by program channel theme time etc. in any suitable manner step . At step the remote access program guide remotely sets a parental control setting with the interactive television program guide via remote access link . Remote program guide access device may use for example one or more access communications sent over remote access link to exchange the parental control settings with interactive television program guide .

Programming may be locked locally by a user via user television equipment or may have been locked remotely by the remote access program guide. The remote access program guide may indicate to a user that programming is locked e.g. by program channel theme etc. with remote program guide access device at step . Remote program guide access device may use for example a notice icon synthesized voice output message or any other suitable indicator.

The remote access program guide may provide the user with the opportunity remotely adjust user profiles step . The user may for example add or delete favorite channels themes indicate likes or dislikes etc. At step the remote access program guide remotely adjusts user profiles with the local interactive television program guide. This may be accomplished by for example remote program access device exchanging one or more access communications with interactive television guide equipment via remote access link . The one or more access communications may indicate one or more user profiles or favorites information. At step the remote program guide obtains program guide data according to the preference profiles.

At step remote program guide access device may provide the user with the opportunity to remotely navigate through favorites. Remote program guide access device may for example have obtained program listings information step sorted the information according to the favorites information and displayed only listings for a favorite channel or theme. Alternatively remote program guide access device may for example display television program listings in a grid table or list while highlighting favorite channels. A user may be provided with the opportunity to jump between favorite listings or channels by issuing an appropriate command using user interface .

At an appropriate time the program is recorded step . As indicated by substeps and the program may be recorded by the local interactive program guide on interactive television program guide equipment e.g. digital storage device or secondary storage device of user television equipment or on program guide server or may be recorded by remote program guide access device on storage or program guide server . If the program is recorded by remote program guide access device the programming may for example be digitized and transmitted as a MPEG 2 data stream over remote access link using access communications.

At step the remote access program guide provides the user with the opportunity to remotely order a pay per view program or package. This opportunity may be provided for example in response to the user selecting a pay per view program listing or package listing e.g. step . At step the remote access program guide remotely orders the pay per view program or package by indicating the program or package to the local interactive television program guide by for example exchanging one or more access communications over remote access link step . The access communications may contain the pay per view information for the selected pay per view program or package. The local guide may order the program or package at step . Alternately the remote access program guide may order the pay per view program step .

The way in which the remote access program guide orders the pay per view program using the local interactive television program guide may depend on the configuration of the system. If the system is configured as shown in and the remote access program guide may for example provide the pay per view information to the interactive television program guide implemented at least partially on user television equipment . The interactive television program guide may in turn order the pay per view program with television distribution facility . If the system is configured as shown in and the remote access program guide may for example provide the pay per view information to the interactive television program guide via separate communications device . If the system is configured as shown in and the remote access program guide may provide the pay per view information via Internet service system .

Substeps and show illustrative steps involved in obtaining directory information used in providing a user with audio and video information. The remote access program guide may query the local interactive television program guide implemented on interactive television program guide equipment for directory information using one or more access communications that are sent over remote access link step . The directory information may be contained for example in a media library directory for a media library that is stored on user television equipment or by television distribution facility . The directory information may be provided back to the remote access program guide by exchanging one or more remote access communications between interactive television program guide equipment and remote program guide access device over remote access link as is indicated by substep . Step may be skipped and step performed when for example directory information or listings are provided to the remote access guide ahead of time.

At step the remote access program guide may provide the user with the opportunity to select a video or audio for remote playing. The user may select a video or audio by for example selecting a listing that is indicated to the user by user interface . The user may be provided with an opportunity to play a program in real time via the local and remote guides or to play a stored program. In response the remote access program guide may obtain the selected video or audio from the local interactive television program guide using access communications that are sent over remote access link . The access communications may contain the video or audio in a suitable analog or digital format. At step remote program guide access device remotely plays the video or audio for the user using user interface . Selected video may be displayed for example on a suitable monitor LCD or other suitable display device. Selected audio may be played for the user using any suitable speaker. Audio may for example be played by a car stereo if remote program guide access device is an automobile PC.

Step may include substeps and for obtaining the polling information. At substep remote program guide access device may obtain the polling information. Polling information may be obtained on startup periodically continuously on demand in response to a suitable user command or using any other suitable scheme. More particularly status information may be obtained using SNMP substep if desired. If SNMP is used to obtain polling information for example the access communications may include commands and protocol data units PDUs . Other suitable network management protocols may also be used. At step remote program guide access device may present the polling information to the user in any suitable method. The polling information may be displayed for example in a status display screen such as status display screen of . Polling information may for example be output to the user via synthesized voice outputs that are played using a speaker and voice synthesis hardware and software.

The message may include any suitable text graphics or audio. The user may for example speak an audio message into a microphone. The audio message may be digitized and stored in an access communication for transfer over remote access link . Alternatively the user may input a text message using a suitable text input device e.g. a keyboard . However the message is created and whatever its content the message is transferred over remote access link using one or more access communications. The message may be transferred from the interactive television program guide to the remote access program guide or from the remote access program guide to the local interactive television program guide depending on where the message was created and its intended destination. At step the message may be presented to the user by user television equipment e.g. substep or by remote program guide access device e.g. substep .

The discussion thus far has focused on implementing the invention with an interactive television program guide. The invention may also be applied to non program guide interactive television applications. Local non program guide applications run on user television equipment such as a set top box and corresponding remote access non program guide application may run on a remote access device. Interactive television applications may be stand alone applications portions of an operating system or any suitable combination thereof.

One non program guide application that may be implemented on a set top box in accordance with the present invention is an Internet browser. An Internet browser may have settings such as bookmarks parental control settings and general preferences that control how the browser functions. As shown in a remote access device may provide the user with access to a browser application by displaying for example browser screen of a remote access browser application. Browser screen may have a bookmark option . A user may for example select bookmark option and add a bookmark i.e. a record of the address of the current web site that can be used to access the site . After the user adds a bookmark with a remote access Internet browser the remote access Internet browser may exchange one or more access communications with a local Internet browser to add the bookmark to the local browser.

Another application that may be implemented or a set top box in accordance with the present invention is a shopping application. A shopping application may have settings such as a default shipping address and credit card number. As shown in a remote access shopping application screen may have settings such as a shipping address and credit card number . A user may for example add a shipping address and credit card information. After a user adds shipping and credit card information with the remote access shopping application the remote access application may exchange one or more access communications with a local shopping application to provide the information to the local application.

Another non program guide application that may be implemented on a set top box and accessed via a remote access device in accordance with the present invention is a stock ticker. A stock ticker may have settings such as settings indicating the top ten stocks in which the user is interested. As shown in a remote access device may display a remote access stock ticker settings screen . Stock ticker settings screen may have for example ticker symbol and a top ten stocks option . A user may for example add a top stock. By exchanging one or more access communications the remote access stock ticker application can make the top ten stock settings effective on a local stock ticker application.

A chat application may be implemented on a set top box. Chat applications are services that allow users to exchange chat messages with other users in real time. A chat application may be implemented as a stand alone chat application or as part of another application such as a program guide application. Chat applications that may be implemented on user television equipment are described in DeWeese et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 356 270 filed Jul. 16 1999 filed concurrently herewith which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. A user may remotely adjust settings associated with a chat application such as the size of a chat window an address book or whether to filter potentially offensive messages. After the user adjusts chat settings with a remote access chat application running on a remote access device the remote access chat application may remotely adjust the settings of a local chat application by for example exchanging one or more access communications with the local chat application over a remote access link.

If desired the settings of an e mail application running on a set top box may be adjusted remotely. Set top based messaging systems are described for example in concurrently filed McKissick et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 356 245 filed Jul. 16 1999 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Users may for example remotely add to or change an address book. When the user adjusts e mail settings with a remote access e mail application running on a remote access device the remote access e mail application may remotely adjust the settings of a local e mail application by for example exchanging one ore more access communications with the local e mail application over a remote access link.

An illustrative program guide system in accordance with the present invention is shown in . Main facility contains a program guide database for storing program guide information such as television program guide program listings data pay per view ordering information television program promotional information etc. Information from database may be transmitted to multiple television distribution facilities such as television distribution facility via communications links such as communications link . Only one such television distribution facility and one communications link are shown in to avoid over complicating the drawings. Link may be a satellite link a telephone network link a cable or fiber optic link a microwave link a combination of such links or any other suitable communications path. If it is desired to transmit video signals e.g. for advertising and promotional videos over link in addition to data signals a relatively high bandwidth link such as a satellite link is generally preferable to a relatively low bandwidth link such as a telephone line.

Television distribution facility is a facility for distributing television signals to users such as a cable system headend a broadcast distribution facility or a satellite television distribution facility or the like.

The program guide information transmitted by main facility to television distribution facility includes television program listings data such as program times channels titles descriptions etc. Transmitted program guide information may also include pay program data such as pricing information for individual programs and subscription channels time windows for ordering programs and channels telephone numbers for placing orders that cannot be impulse ordered etc. If desired some of the program guide and advertising information may be provided using data sources at facilities other than main facility . For example data related to pay program order processing e.g. billing data and the like may be generated by an order processing and billing system that is separate from main facility and separate from television distribution facility . Similarly advertising information may be generated by an advertising facility that is separate from main facility and television distribution facility .

A server may be provided in television distribution facility for handling data distribution tasks and for storing local information. If desired server may be used to implement a client server based interactive television program guide system. In such a system client functions may be performed at user television equipment . Server may be capable of handling text graphics and video.

Television distribution facility distributes program guide and advertising information to the user television equipment of multiple users via communications paths . Program guide data and other information may be distributed over an out of band channel on paths or using any other suitable distribution technique.

Each user has a receiver which is typically a set top box such as set top box but which may be other suitable television equipment into which circuitry similar to set top box circuitry has been integrated. If desired user television equipment may be an advanced television receiver or a personal computer television PC TV . For purposes of illustration the present invention will generally be described in connection with user television equipment based on a set top box arrangement. Program guide data may be distributed to set top boxes periodically and stored or may be distributed continuously and handled on the fly. or by request. Television distribution facility may poll set top boxes periodically for certain information e.g. pay program account information or information regarding programs that have been purchased and viewed using locally generated authorization techniques . Main facility preferably contains a processor to handle information distribution tasks. Each set top box preferably contains a processor to handle tasks associated with implementing a program guide application on the set top box . Television distribution facility may contain a processor for tasks associated with implementing server and for handling tasks associated with the distribution of program guide and other information.

Each set top box is may connected to an optional videocassette recorder or other suitable recording device e.g. digital storage device so that selected television programs may be recorded. Each videocassette recorder may be connected to a television . To record a program set top box tunes to a particular channel and sends control signals to videocassette recorder e.g. using an infrared transmitter that direct videocassette recorder to start and stop recording at the appropriate times.

During use of the interactive television program guide implemented on set top box television program listings may be displayed on television . Each set top box videocassette recorder and television may be controlled by one or more remote controls or any other suitable user input interface such as a wireless keyboard mouse trackball dedicated set of buttons etc.

Communications paths preferably have sufficient bandwidth to allow television distribution facility to distribute scheduled television programming pay programming advertising and other promotional videos and other video information to set top boxes in addition to non video program guide data. Multiple television and audio channels analog digital or both analog and digital may be provided to set top boxes via communications paths . If desired program listings and other information may be distributed by one or more distribution facilities that are similar to but separate from television distribution facility using communications paths that are separate from communications paths .

Certain functions such as pay program purchasing may require set top boxes to transmit data to television distribution facility over communications paths . If desired such data may be transmitted over telephone lines or other separate communications paths. If functions such as these are provided using facilities separate from television distribution facility some of the communications involving set top boxes may be made directly with the separate facilities.

The present invention involves the distribution of user program guide settings to multiple program guide locations within a household. Such a household may contain multiple pieces of user television equipment. A program guide may be implemented on each piece of user television equipment. An illustrative process for distributing such settings is shown in . At step a first program guide provides the user with an opportunity to adjust program guide settings e.g. program guide settings for user profiles favorites parental controls reminders recording options pay per view options message options or other setup functions . At step the system coordinates the operation of the multiple interactive television program guides so that the program guide settings that were adjusted with the first interactive television program guide are effective on a second interactive television program guide and may be used by that second interactive television program guide.

The steps of are preferably performed using program guides as the program guides implemented on set top boxes of . Certain program guide functions particularly the display of graphics or videos may involve the use of resources located at main facility and television distribution facility and other such facilities. If desired some of the steps of may be performed using an application running on set top boxes other than the interactive program guide. For clarity the principles of the invention are described in the context of an arrangement in which the set top based steps of are performed primarily using an interactive television program guide.

As shown in the capabilities of server may be provided using servers located at network nodes . Servers such as servers may be used instead of server or may be used in conjunction with a server located at television distribution facility .

Graphics information for messages advertisements and the like may be downloaded periodically e.g. once per day to set top boxes of and stored locally. The graphics information may be accessed locally when needed by the program guides implemented on set top boxes . Graphics information may also be provided in a continuously looped arrangement on one or more digital channels on paths . With such a continuously looped arrangement a map indicating the location of the latest graphics information may be downloaded periodically to set top boxes e.g. once per day or continuously. This allows the content on the digital channels to be updated. The program guides on set top boxes may use the map to locate desired graphics information on the digital channels. Another approach involves using a server such as server or servers to provide the graphics information after a set top box and that server have negotiated to set up a download operation. A bitmap or other suitable set of graphics information may then be downloaded from the server to the set top box. If desired the server may download instructions informing the set top box where the desired graphics information can be located on a particular digital channel. The graphics information can be updated periodically if the server that is responsible for downloading the instructions for informing the set top box of the location of the graphics information is also updated periodically.

Text information for messages advertisements and the like may be provided to set top boxes using the same paths that are used for distributing program guide data. For example advertising data from database of may be provided to set top boxes using link television distribution facility and paths . The text information may be stored locally in set top boxes and updated periodically e.g. once per day .

Text information graphics information and videos for messages advertisements and the like may also be distributed using a combination of these techniques or any other suitable technique.

As shown in when a household has more than one home the user television equipment in each home may be connected by modem link or other suitable link for transferring data between homes. For example user television equipment may be connected to user television equipment via link . Link may use internal or external modems cable modems or other communications devices suitable for transmitting audio video and text data. In this manner home and home may share program guide settings.

As shown in when a household has more than one home the user television equipment in each home may be connected via an outside server. For example user television equipment may be connected to user television equipment via server . Communication paths may use internal or external modems cable modems or other communications devices suitable for transmitting audio video and text data. In this manner home and home may share program guide settings.

Further aspects of the invention are described in detail below. For clarity the principles of the invention described below are described in the context of the device configuration shown in and the steps illustrated of except where noted. However the principles of the present invention also apply to configurations such as those shown in . Also the foregoing description is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

In any of the above arrangements an interactive television program guide on each user television equipment device may provide various features for displaying television program listings information for the user and for providing various program guide functions such as parental control favorites pay per view purchasing etc. For example if the user presses the appropriate buttons on remote control the user may be presented with a time ordered or channel ordered grid or table of television program listings or other such programming information.

With one suitable approach the user may select one of the user television equipment devices to be a master or primary device. Adjusting the program guide settings of the master device controls these settings for all other devices in the household. For example with the arrangement of the user may set primary user television equipment to be the master device. Primary user television equipment may be located in the parents bedroom. This allows the head of the household to control the program guide settings for all of the program guides in the household from a single location.

The system may provides the user with an opportunity to assign a master device such as user television equipment that will coordinate its program guide settings with other devices such as secondary user television equipment and . The system also provides the user with an opportunity to assign secondary devices.

One suitable way in which the system may allow the user to assign devices as primary master and secondaries is for at least one of the program guides e.g. the program guide running on set top box to provide an assign locations screen such as assign locations screen of . Screen may be accessed for example by first accessing main screen of by pressing e.g. a suitable key on remote control . After accessing screen the user can use remote control to move highlight region to the setup option and select setup option by pressing a select key enter key OK key or other such key sometimes referred to herein as simply an enter key on remote control .

Selecting setup option directs the program guide to display a setup screen such as setup screen of . The user can select assign location option on setup screen by moving highlight region and pressing the enter key. Selecting assign location option directs the program guide to display assign locations screen of . The user can then move highlight region to set B option . Selecting option directs the program guide to provide the user with an opportunity to enter a name to assign to set B. For example the user may use data input device or remote control to enter the letters associated with the selected name. The program guide may use such user defined device names when the relationship between devices is set up. For example the user may designate the parents room location as a master location and may designate the children s room location as a slave location.

The names of locations may be pre set by a service provider and simply assigned by the user. Alternately the user or an installation technician may have the ability to assign locations from the home. The location name may be chosen from a list as above or typed in by the user or an installation technician. 

In the alternative arrangements shown in and each piece of user television equipment and is a peer. The user can assign names to each such user television equipment device in much the same way that names may be assigned to the secondary devices in the arrangement.

As shown in at step the program guide may provide the user with an opportunity to select the devices or locations for which the user desires to adjust settings. Step may for example involve providing a screen such as select location screen of . At step of after the user has made a selection by moving highlight region to the desired device e.g. parents room option and pressed the enter key the program guide sets the selected locations. The guide may also default to a particular location based on the type of setting that is changed. e.g. if a setting for the recording of a program is changed the guide may default to location with a videocassette recorder. The guide may default to any combination of locations based on the type of setting that is changed. There are also other factors that may be used by the guide to determine at which location the settings will be effective. These include the current location of the user making the adjustment whether a location to be adjusted is currently being used the state of other settings etc.

The program guide may allow a unique number to be assigned to a user so that he or she is able to access his or her program guide settings at a location outside the home. For example a user may visit a neighbors home to housesit while the neighbor is out of town. This user has the ability to log on to the program guide at the neighbors home and access his or her personal program guide settings.

The user may be provided with an opportunity to select programs for recording at a later time. For example if the user presses an appropriate button e.g. a record button after having used a browse feature to navigate to a program listing for Holiday Entertaining as shown in the program guide at the user s location may present the user with a set recording screen such as set recording screen of . Set recording screen allows the user to set a selected program Holiday Entertaining for recording by the program guide by selecting yes option with highlight region . If the user selects no option set recording screen is canceled.

If a household has only one videocassette recorder there will only be one location that will make all recordings regardless of which location the recordings are set from. If there are multiple videocassette recorders the user may be presented with select location screen of after selecting the yes option that provides the user with an opportunity to select the location that will make the recording. If desired multiple locations may be selected. The guide may choose which VCR is used based on which VCR is busy or based on other factors.

At the scheduled broadcast time of the program to be recorded the program guide at each selected location causes videocassette recorder to begin recording. After the scheduled completion of the broadcast of the recorded program each program guide causes its videocassette recorder to stop recording. The guides may cause videocassette recorders to stop and start recording by sending an IR signal to the videocassette recorders IR input or by any other suitable method for transmitting a signal to a videocassette recorder.

A series recording option may also be provided that allows users to record program series. Series recording is described in the above mentioned Knudson et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 330 792 filed Jun. 11 1999.

The discussion thus far has focused on implementing the invention with an interactive television program guide. The invention may also be applied to non program guide applications. These non program guide applications run on user television equipment such as a set top box. For example an Internet browser may be run on a set top box connected to a television. Internet application settings can be coordinated among televisions and or set top boxes within a household in the same way that program guide settings are coordinated among program guides in the house.

One non program guide application that may be implemented in accordance with the present invention is an Internet browser. An Internet browser may have settings such as bookmarks parental control settings and general preferences that control how the browser functions. As shown in a browser application screen may have a bookmark option . After adding a bookmark the system allows the bookmark and other settings to be effective on other locations in the household. For example a user may select bookmark option and add a bookmark i.e. a record of the address of the current web site that can be used to access the site . Through a network in accordance with the present invention the application can make the bookmark effective on other locations in the household. Accordingly the user can choose to apply settings adjustments to all locations by selecting an apply to all option or may opt to apply the adjustments to a specific location or locations by selecting a select locations option from the options provided by the program guide. The guide may apply the settings to a default location or to a location determined by other factors as described above.

Another application that may be implemented in accordance with the present invention is an shopping application. A shopping application may have settings such as a default shipping address and credit card number. As shown in a shopping application screen has settings such as a shipping address and credit card number . After adding a shipping and credit card information the system allows the shipping address credit card number and other settings to be effective on other locations in the household. For example a user can add a shipping address. Through a network in accordance with the present invention the application can make the shipping address effective on other locations in the household. Accordingly the user can choose to apply settings adjustments to all locations by selecting an apply to all option or may opt to apply the adjustments to a specific location or locations by selecting a select locations option from the options provided by the program guide. The guide may apply the settings to a default location or to a location determined by other factors as described above.

Another non program guide application that may be implemented on user television equipment and coordinated with other such applications in accordance with the present invention is a stock ticker. A stock ticker may have settings such as settings indicating the top 10 stocks in which the user is interested. As shown in a stock ticker settings screen has a ticker symbol and a top 10 stocks option . For example a user may add a top stock. Then through a network in accordance with the present invention the application can make the top 10 stock settings effective on other locations in the household. Accordingly the user can choose to apply the adjustments to all locations by selecting an apply to all option or may opt to apply the adjustments to a specific location or locations by selecting a select locations option from the options provided by the program guide. The guide may apply the settings to a default location or to a location determined by other factors as described above.

A chat application may be implemented on user television equipment such as a set top box. Chat applications are services that allow users to exchange chat messages with other users in real time. A chat application may be implemented as a stand alone chat application or as part of another application such as a program guide application. A user may adjust settings associated with a chat application such as the size of a chat window or whether to filter potentially offensive messages. Chat applications that may be implemented on user television equipment are described in McKissick et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 356 270 filed Jul. 16 1999 filed concurrently herewith which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. After the user adjusts chat settings the user can choose to apply the chat settings adjustments to all locations by selecting an apply to all option or may opt to apply the adjustments to a specific location or locations by selecting a select locations option. Settings may be coordinated between the chat applications using options provided by the chat application. The chat application may apply the settings to a default location or to a location determined by other factors as described above.

If desired the settings of an e mail application running on different user television equipment devices in the household may be coordinated. When the user adjusts the e mail settings associated with one user television equipment device the system coordinates the operation of the other e mail applications so that the adjusted e mail settings may be used by the other e mail applications.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

