---

title: Identifying and providing physical social actions to a social networking system
abstract: Physical social actions are conveniently detected, characterized, and provided to a social networking system. This improves the user experience of the social networking system by more thoroughly recording the social actions of users occurring outside a social graph. This has the effect of extending an open social graph, which typically refers to social actions taken outside the social networking system but within a computer network, to physical social actions. By providing characterized physical social actions to the social networking system, the open social graph is extended to include physical social actions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621602&OS=09621602&RS=09621602
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09621602
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131126
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 730 386 filed Nov. 27 2012 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments described herein relate generally to providing information to a social networking system. Specifically embodiments described herein relate to identifying and providing physical social actions to a social networking system.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable connections between users including people businesses and other entities have become prevalent. In particular a social networking system allows users to more efficiently communicate information that is relevant to their friends or other connections in the social network. Social networks typically incorporate a system for maintaining connections among users in the social network and links to content that are likely to be relevant to the users. Social networks also collect and maintain information about the users of the social network. This information may be static such as geographic location employer job type age music preferences interests and a variety of other attributes or it may be dynamic such as tracking a user s actions within the social network.

Additionally a social networking system may receive information describing the interactions of its users with entities external to the social networking system. For example social networking system users may purchase goods or services from vendors at physical retail locations or through websites associated with the vendors. The social networking system users may then elect to share this information with the social networking system. Incorporating this external information provides the social networking system with additional information about its users thereby allowing the social networking system to provide a wider range of information to its users. Because social networking system users are likely to have diverse interests and demographic characteristics adding information about activities occurring external to the social networking system allows further analysis of social networking system users.

While incorporating a user s interactions external to the social networking system enriches the social networking system experience users typically perform innumerable social actions every day that are not added to the system. In some cases the social actions are not added because even though informative they escape the notice of the user. In other cases the social actions are not added to the social networking system because it is not convenient for the user to do so. In particular physical social actions performed without the aid of a computing device or intentional use of the social networking system may be less convenient to contribute to the social networking system. This is particularly true during times when a user engages in many brief social interactions such as meeting people at a party or a conference. Regardless of the reason the social networking experience could be enriched by providing the social networking system with descriptions of physical social interactions.

A system is described for extending an open social graph which typically refers to social actions taken outside the social networking system but within a network to physical social actions. This is accomplished using a system that can detect physical movement of a user compare the movement to a baseline movement profile that is associated with a physical social action and characterize the detected physical movement accordingly. The characterized physical social action is then posted to the social networking system account of the user

The figures depict various embodiments of the present disclosure for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the embodiments described herein.

The described embodiments enable physical social actions to be conveniently detected characterized and provided to a social networking system. By conveniently providing physical social actions to the social networking system the user experience of the social networking system is improved by more thoroughly recording the social actions of users occurring outside a social graph that typically includes actions occurring within a social networking system or within external websites and or mobile applications in communication with the social networking system and not actions occurring physically. This has the effect of extending an open social graph which typically refers to social actions taken outside the social networking system but within a network to physical social actions. In other words by providing characterized physical social actions to the social networking system the open social graph may be seamlessly extended to include physical social actions. Identified social actions once communicated to or determined by a social networking system are used to identify prospective connections between users not currently connected post updates related to a user so that other connected users are apprised of the user s status or otherwise communicate information to connected users.

The sensor of the system environment is used to detect physical movement of a user of the social networking system that corresponds to one or more social actions. The sensor may be located on the user on an item carried by the user or otherwise associated with the user. In some embodiments the sensor records a data profile characterizing the detected movement. Note that the terms data profile movement profile and physical movement profile are used in this specification to refer to the data profile characterizing the detected movement. The data comprising the data profile is a function of the movement the type of sensor and the type of movement that the sensor is configured to detect. In one example the data profile includes one or more data points of acceleration as a function of time for a sensor that includes an accelerometer. In another example the data profile includes one or more data points of geographic location coordinate as a function of time for a sensor that includes a global positioning system GPS sensor. In yet another example the data profile includes one or more data points of orientation in three dimensions for a sensor that include a gyroscope. In still other examples the sensor and the corresponding data profile includes another type of movement and or location sensor or a combination of more than one type of sensor.

The sensor also detects other physically proximate sensors whether associated with a human user or a non human user to which a sensor is attached e.g. a door handle a door a kiosk an establishment a collar of an animal an animal a book a bicycle a vehicle a mobile computing device an article of clothing a workstation or desk . By identifying other proximate sensors and communicating the corresponding sensor identities along with a data profile of a user movement a user movement may be characterized as a physical social action by the system as described below. An embodiment of a sensor will be described in detail in the context of .

The sensor may be configured to fit within a mobile computing device a wrist watch or other personal accessory worn by or otherwise carried by the user. In one embodiment the sensor may be used to detect movements of a portion of a user such as an arm or leg on which the sensor is disposed. For example if the sensor is disposed on or in a wrist watch or wrist band worn on an arm of the user the sensor may be used to detect movements of the arm or movements of the user that cause the arm to move. Such movements include opening a door shaking hands waving walking and others. The location of the user at which the sensor is worn or carried can also be provided with a data profile stored in a processor of the sensor or stored in a user profile of the social networking system for use in the characterization of a data profile as a physical social action.

The sensor can be paired with a user account on for example a computing device and or a social networking system by executing a recognized pairing movement while logged into the user account. Examples of recognized pairing movements include shaking the sensor while simultaneously tapping a key on a keyboard of a computing device logged into a social networking system or simultaneously shaking a mobile computing device having an accelerometer while being logged into the social networking system.

While a specific example of the sensor that includes an RFID transceiver and optionally an accelerometer is presented below the sensor is not limited to this particular example. The sensor can also include image capture systems such as digital cameras video recorders webcams etc. that can be used to identify a proximate user and or inanimate objects and any related physical social interaction. The sensor may also include audio capture systems that can be used to identify a proximate user and or inanimate object and any associated physical social interactions.

As mentioned above the sensor can be attached to or integrated with an inanimate object to identify physical social actions between inanimate objects or between a human user and an object. Examples of inanimate objects include but are not limited to a door handle a door a kiosk an establishment a collar of an animal a book a bicycle a vehicle a mobile computing device an article of clothing and a workstation or desk. In some examples the physical social actions are defined in part based on the inanimate object to which the sensor is attached. For example if the sensor is attached to a book the social physical actions that can be performed on the book include but are not limited to handling or buying the book throwing the book presenting the book to another person turning a page reading some or all of the book and checking the book out from a library. Examples of actions between an inanimate object and a user are described below. The sensors can be ones placed on the objects by the user or can be already existing sensors on the objects e.g. in an existing pet locator chip inside a pet .

Using the network the sensor provides an identity of the user and the data profile of a movement to the computing device for characterization of the movement as a physical social action. The network may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links may be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

Upon receiving an identity of the sensor associated in some examples with a social networking system user identity and a data profile of a user s movement the computing device analyzes the received data profile. This analysis is used to characterize the data profile as corresponding to a physical social action. In one example the computing device stores baseline data profiles used as references for analyzing a data profile as a specific physical social action. For example a baseline data profile having a waveform that includes a cyclic displacement of between 2 cm and 5 cm and a frequency of between 1 Hz and 3 Hz may be associated with handshaking. In another example a baseline data profile that includes a rotation in orientation of between 60 and 120 can be used to characterize a movement as turning a door handle that opens a door. Using similarly characterized baselines the computing device compares the received data profile to the stored baseline data to characterize the received data profile as a physical social action.

A baseline data profile may also be created by using one or more machine learning algorithms that use sensor data from a plurality of proximate sensors to identify baselines. In effect machine learning and crowd sourcing are used in combination to create baseline profiles that can then be used to identify a physical social action corresponding to a received data profile. Machine learning techniques and algorithms include but are not limited to neural networks na ve bayes and support vector machines.

In another example multiple data profiles from multiple physically proximate sensors e.g. sensors A and B may be received and analyzed contemporaneously to facilitate characterization of a physical social action involving the multiple sensors. For example if the computing device receives two user identities and two data profiles from sensors A and B corresponding to contemporaneous movement that matches a baseline profile for handshaking and optionally receives from the sensors an indication that sensor A and B are physically proximate the computing device may infer that the users of sensors A and B have shaken hands. Other examples can include a sensor associated with a non human such as a door handle that when moved is associated with the physical social action of entering an establishment. To improve the reliability of this analysis of the system more advanced signal correlation algorithms can be used to validate the received data profiles as actually contemporaneous. Examples of these algorithms include cross correlation.

The computing device having characterized a physical social action between one or more identified users of sensors A and B may transmit the characterized physical social action through the network to the social networking system . Using an application programming interface API of the social networking system the computing device posts the physical social action to the social networking system account s of the identified user s thereby extending the open social graph to physical interactions. Continuing with the preceding example the handshake between the users of sensors A and B that is published to the social networking system can include user A met user B or user A shook hands with user B. In a still further example the two users need not both be human. If the sensor B is connected to a door of an establishment and the sensor A communicates a data profile matching a baseline profile of opening a door and is proximate to sensor B then the social networking system can indicate that user A visited establishment B. 

In one example the accelerometer may include one or more accelerometers to detect changes in speed direction and or orientation of the user thereby indicating user movement. The one or more accelerometers may include a single axis accelerometer a multi axis accelerometer or combinations thereof. The one or more accelerometers may be micro machined such as those used in mobile computing devices or any other type of accelerometer that is capable of detecting a change in speed direction and or orientation of some or all of a user.

The local area identity transceiver is encoded with a unique identifier that can correspond to the identity of the user of the sensor . For example the local area identity transceiver may be encoded in non volatile memory with a unique identifier that the user then links with the user s social networking system account. In some examples this identifier is the user s social security number a user ID and password a mobile phone number or other unique identifier. Regardless the local area identity transceiver is used to identify the sensor to other proximate sensors and to identify the user to the social networking system . In some examples the local area identity transceiver can use any of a variety of local communication devices and corresponding transmission protocols. In the example described below a radio frequency identity RFID transceiver will be used for convenience of description.

In another embodiment the RFID transceiver wirelessly detects other physically proximate sensors and communicates these identities to the social networking system . The presence of proximate sensors informs the characterization of a movement profile as a possible physical social action. As described above examples of contemporaneous movements from proximate devices can be characterized as user A met user B or user A visited establishment B. In some examples an RFID transceiver identifies all proximate sensors whether the proximate sensors are participating in a contemporaneous movement or not. By identifying proximate sensors and communicating their identities to the computing device the computing device can limit the physical social actions to those users that are proximate to one another. This information can also be used to limit the types of possible physical social interactions used to characterize the movement. For example a coordinated movement between a door and a human user is limited to the human user opening closing and or bumping into the door.

Furthermore using the transmitted identities of proximate sensors the computing device can record the interactions experienced by each user over a period of time. This can aid a user in remembering and optionally manually characterizing the social interactions that have occurred that involve the user. This function is particularly helpful for settings in which many brief social encounters occur such as at conferences and parties. This feature can also be helpful for remembering unanticipated physical social actions such as a chance encounter between acquaintances.

In some examples of the sensor the accelerometer or other type of sensor is not included and the data profiles sent to the computing device transmit the identities of proximate sensors. In some embodiments of these examples the sensor can still be used to detect movement using the RFID transceiver . That is by detecting other proximate sensors and the identities of the proximate sensors the movements of a user can be inferred. For example if a sensor A becomes proximate to a first sensor B then leaves the first sensor to become proximate to a second sensor C wherein sensors B and C are attached to stationary objects e.g. buildings then the system can infer that the sensor A is moving.

The network transceiver is used to wirelessly transmit data from the sensor through the network to the computing device . The data transmitted to the computing device may include a data profile of a movement an identifier of a sensor e.g. A an identifier of physically proximate sensor e.g. B and combinations thereof. In one example the network transceiver transmits the data from the sensor to the computing device using wireless radio frequency transmission protocols based on IEEE 802.11 standards such as WLAN. In other examples the network transceiver transmits the data to the network using any wireless data transmission technology including but not limited to WiMAX 3G 4G and or CDMA.

In still further examples the network transceiver may use combinations of wireless technologies and or wirelessly enabled communication devices to communicate data through the network to the social networking system . In one embodiment the network transceiver of the sensor may be configured to communicate to a mobile computing device using a wireless transmission protocol based on the IEEE 802.11 standard. The mobile computing device connects to the social networking system via the network using for example a 3G 4G and or CDMA communication network. This then bridges the connection between the network transceiver and the network to communicate a data profile to the social networking system .

The processor may be configured to receive and store data from the accelerometer timestamp the data received from the accelerometer record an identity of a proximate sensor received by the RFID transceiver communicate stored data to the network transceiver and or provide operating instructions to some or all of the elements of the sensor. The processor may include some or all of a memory unit an input output bus and various logic elements for execution of computer executable code.

In some embodiments the processor may assume some or all of the functions of the computing device . That is the processor may store baseline data profiles of movements that are particular to a user or generic to some or all users of the social networking system . The processor may also characterize the data profile of a movement as a physical social action by comparing the data profile of the movement to the stored baseline profile. This characterization may then be communicated to the social networking system as a physical social action. Alternatively the social networking system can assume some or all of the functionality of the computing device . Further the functionality attributed to various entities and modules herein may be distributed between entities and elements in a different manner.

Similarly the processor through the RFID transceiver may control communications with physically proximate sensors which can include exchanging identities and or data profiles of detected movements with other proximate sensors. By exchanging data profiles in this way the processor can analyze data profiles of physical actions occurring contemporaneously. This information can be used to limit the possible physical social actions used to characterize a received data profile to certain types of physical social actions or to certain users as described above. Also when used in conjunction with the stored baseline profiles identifying the relative timing of multiple received data profiles may contribute to the characterization of the movement as a physical social action. That is understanding that certain actions such as shaking hands occur contemporaneously and between two users at a time can inform the characterization of a received data profile.

Although not shown in some examples of the sensor also include a device for identifying the location of the sensor and presumably the location of a user associated with the sensor . Embodiments of such a location detection device include a global positioning system transceiver or other location transceiver that use one or more networks to identify the location of the user. Location information generated by such a device may be transmitted to the computing device for use as part of the characterization of one or more data profiles as a physical social action.

The baseline profile store stores data profiles that have been previously identified as corresponding to specific physical social actions. In some embodiments these baseline profiles are generic to all users. In other embodiments the baseline profiles are specific to specific users and are therefore associated with unique user identifiers. In this latter case because the baseline data profiles are associated with a specific user the baseline data profiles may be different between users while still identifying the same social action.

For example a user may indicate to the computing device that a baseline profile for a physical social action such as shaking hands will be provided to the baseline profile store . This profile may then be provided as a baseline by the user by actually shaking hands and labeling the profile in this case having a sinusoidal waveform that describes the acceleration of a shaken hand as such in the baseline profile store . In other examples the user using the sensor transmits a data profile of a physical social action to the computing device and subsequently identifies the profiles as a baseline profile corresponding to specific physical social actions.

Furthermore while many of the examples presented herein describe the interaction of two motion sensors for convenience the interactions and characterizations need not be limited to two devices. Rather interactions can be defined or inferred between multiple devices. For example the proximity of a cash register a book and a human user can be used to infer the purchase of a book.

Alternatively baseline profiles can be defined based on values of the data in the data profile. For example a physical social action can be defined based on a maximum and minimum acceleration a maximum and minimum force a maximum and minimum speed a duration of an acceleration an orientation of the accelerometer and other similar features of a data profile. As described above a given speed frequency and waveform can be associated with handshaking. Similarly other features of a data profile can be associated with walking running opening a door and other physical social actions. Data profiles can also be defined by a user to imply a certain physical action. For example shaking a book can be defined as borrowing a book from a library.

The comparison engine of the computing device compares a received data profile transmitted from the sensor to a baseline profile or baseline values stored in the baseline profile store . By comparing the baseline profile to the received data profile the comparison engine matches the received data profile with a baseline profile thereby identifying the physical social action.

In another example the comparison engine checks the timestamp of received data profiles from different but physically proximate sensors e.g. A and B as part of its comparison of the received data profiles. For example if both sensor A and B indicate physical proximity to one another then the comparison engine may compare the timing of movements and the type of physical social action corresponding to the received data profiles. In one embodiment if two physically proximate sensors transmit data having approximately the same timestamp corresponding to a handshake the comparison engine may infer that the users of the proximate sensors shook each other s hand.

The communication engine of the computing device receives data transmissions originating at a sensor as described above and enables other elements of the computing device to access the data profile. The communication engine also communicates the physical social action determined by the comparison engine to the social networking system . As described above the communication engine can receive a unique identifier accompanying a received data profile where the identifier corresponds to a user of the social networking system . The communication engine using this identifier may access the account of the social networking system user and post the physical social action performed by the user to the social networking system account of the user.

For example upon the comparison engine determining that the users of sensors A and B shaken hands the communication engine receives this analysis from the comparison engine contacts an API of the social networking system and using the unique identifiers of the users described above in the context of the RFID transceiver posts to the accounts of both of the users that user A met user B. By making this post the computing device conveniently and seamlessly extends the open social graph to physical social interactions.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by the social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of the social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic psychographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like.

A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be targeted with identification information of the users of social networking system that are displayed in an image. A user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions performed by the corresponding user on social objects in the social networking system and references to physical social actions performed by the user that are stored in the edge store .

Because the social networking system receives location and physical social interaction information that users may not wish to share the user profile store may include one or more privacy settings. These privacy settings may be used to limit the types of information location and or physical social interaction information that are shared by the social networking system . For example a privacy setting may restrict access to physical social interactions that occur on weekends during certain hours of the day and or during vacations. Alternatively the privacy settings may be used to restrict the access of other social networking system users to the physical social action information. For example a privacy setting may restrict designated social networking system users such as employers employees coworkers and or family members from viewing some or all of the physical social actions performed by a user. Other similar privacy settings are also possible. Privacy settings may also restrict the type of physical social action that is shared and can restrict whether to share an identity of another user participating in the physical social action. For example a handshake may be identified within the privacy setting as a physical social action in which the identities of all participants may be shared. But touching a keyboard or exchanging a high five may be associated with a privacy setting that prohibits sharing the identity of the other participating users.

In one embodiment of the social networking system the edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects including characterized physical social actions on the social networking system in edge objects. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in the social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system. Still further edges are generated when a user or a sensor provides the social networking system with a characterized physical social action. The edge store also stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users.

The social networking system also includes the action logger which receives information describing user actions on and or off the social networking system and populates the action log with information about user actions. Actions recorded by the action logger and stored in the action log include those physical social actions identified by the comparison engine of the computing device and shared with the social networking system by the communication engine . Other actions stored in the action logger may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others.

The action log may be used by the social networking system to track user actions on the social networking system on external websites that communicate information to the social networking system and outside of the network in physical social actions. Users may interact with various objects on the social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence physically interacting with other people or things or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in the action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on the social networking system included in the action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a groups becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally the action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on the social networking system as well as other applications operating on the social networking system. In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The web server links the social networking system to devices used by social networking system user to access the system. The web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing data and messages between a user s social networking system access device and the social networking system using for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send and receive data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or RIM. The web server also provides API functionality for exchanging data between the computing device and the social networking system .

Upon identifying the proximate sensors the sensors A and B use their respective accelerometers to detect movements of the sensors. Having thus identified proximate sensors and detected movement of at least one sensor the sensors A and B then transmit the proximate sensor identities and data profiles of the movement to the computing device .

Upon receipt of the transmitted data profiles and sensor identities the computing device characterizes the data profile as a physical social action. As described above characterizing the data profile can include reference to a baseline profile and or specific values in the data profile. These values include but are not limited to acceleration value acceleration direction frequency orientation and location. As explained above the baseline profile and or specific values can be generic to some or all users of the system or alternatively can be associated with specific users.

Once the computing device characterizes the data profile or profiles as a physical social action the characterization is transmitted to the social networking system. Because the characterized physical social action is most meaningful when associated with specific users of the social networking system the computing device transmits identities of the sensors such that the physical social action can be posted to one or more accounts of social networking users. This can include transmitting the RFID unique identifier of the sensor that is used by the social networking system to specifically identify the social networking system user associated with the RFID identifier. This correlation between the RFID unique identifier and social networking system user profile can also be performed at the computing device . In this later case the data profile the user social networking system identity and security credentials are all transmitted to the social networking system using for example the API functionality of the web server . Regardless of how the characterized social action is transmitted to the social networking system and associated with a user of the social networking system the system posts the physical social interaction to the accounts of the users associated with the physical social action. Upon posting the physical social action the open social graph has been extended to physical social interactions.

One specific example of this interaction is between a human user and a book both of which bear a sensor . In this example the sensor A associated with the human user and the sensor B associated with the book identify each other as being proximate. Upon the human user picking up the book from stationary position both sensors A and B detect the movement and transmit the data profile and sensor identities to the computing device for analysis. The computing device then characterizes the data profile according to any one or more of stored baseline profiles. In this example embodiments of baseline profiles include but are not limited to checking out the book from a library e.g. by shaking it or some other defined baseline profile associated with checking out the book turning a page of the book handing the book to another and or replacing the book on a shelf. Once characterized the physical social action is transmitted to a social networking system along with the identities of the sensors A and B which correspond to identities on the social networking system.

The social networking system upon receiving the transmitted social actions and user identities posts the physical social action to the appropriate user accounts. In this example if the human user begins turning pages at regular intervals the social networking system can create an open graph story with an initial post stating User A is reading Book B. Because the system can determine how long the sensor A has been stationary and approximately how many pages have been turned and or read at a sitting the social networking system can add to the story by identifying further physical social interactions between the user and the book. For example the social networking system can post an additional physical social action to the open graph story stating User A loves Book B if the user has remained stationary for a period of more than one hour and turned more than 50 pages. The social networking system can also connect a user reading a particular book with other users reading the same book or books by the same author in the same genre etc. because the book is uniquely identified by the sensor B. These connections can then also be posted to a user account.

In another example a human user using the sensor A can enter a caf that has attached sensor B to its door. Following an analogous interaction between the sensors A and B an open graph story can be started on one or both social networking system accounts of the human user and the caf that the user has entered the caf . Further additions to the open graph story can be added depending on who the user of sensor A meets within the caf what objects the user interacts with and how long the user remains.

While the above embodiments are focused primarily on extending the open social graph to physical social interactions the system can be used for other applications. In some applications the system can be used to provide information from the social networking system to the sensor . For example information can be sent to the sensor from the social networking system to indicate other proximate social networking system users. In one example upon the sensor A communicating the unique RFID identities of other proximate sensors e.g. B to the social networking system the social networking system can then transmit to the sensor A the social networking system identities of the proximate users. Furthermore the social networking system can search the edge store associated with the user of the sensor A to provide the user of the sensor A with information regarding other social networking system users to whom the user of sensor A is connected.

In the foregoing example this information can be displayed on a properly configured sensor e.g. a sensor that includes a display or be displayed on a mobile computing device in communication with one or both of the sensor and the social networking system . In one embodiment because the sensor includes both an RFID transceiver and a network transceiver the sensor can communicate to a mobile computing device that is similarly enabled for wireless communication and properly paired with the sensor. In this way information sent by the social networking system to the sensor can be displayed on the mobile computing device using for example a social networking system mobile application or Internet browser.

In another application because the sensor includes a unique RFID identifier that is associated with a user s social networking system account the sensor can be used to log a user into the social networking system in lieu of user submitted security credentials such as a username and password . Using the unique RFID identifier of the sensor in lieu of security credentials is not merely limited to social networking systems . Rather because the sensor can communicate through the network transceiver to any device or system connectable to the network the sensor can be used in lieu of security credentials for any system in communication with the network. The benefit of using the sensor in lieu of user submitted security credentials is that a user can passively use the sensor to access any of a number of applications and resources rather than attempting to remember a plurality of different login credentials. Furthermore the unique identifier stored by the RFID transceiver can provide greater security than some login credentials that are susceptible to discovery.

Furthermore the unique RFID identifier can be used to access user specific settings that can personalize a computing device or an apparatus that includes a computing device. For example a user using a properly configured sensor can use the sensor to access a user account that provides a computing device with the user s selected settings. In an embodiment of this example a sensor can be used to access a cloud computing based e reader platform which then transmits user specific e reader account information to the e reader. This personalizes any e reader according to account identity corresponding to the sensor . Other similar applications used to personalize a computing device are possible.

In an alternative embodiment a user can enter a space equipped with a sensor that identifies the user by using the unique RFID identifier associated with the user s sensor. Music systems connected to the sensor of the space can then list the user as a collaborator or contributor to a social music service queuing music to be played in the space thereby adding one or more songs associated with the individual user s social music service account.

The system can also be used to track the virality of a particular preference song association a social object or physical social action. This can be done by monitoring interactions between users participating in the system by using sensor and for example the first exposure or access by a user to the particular preference song etc. In other words the progression of a preference through a networking of connected users can be mapped as a function of time. This can also be used as a way of identifying individual users that expose a disproportionate number of other users to the preference.

In yet another application the sensor can be used in specific settings in which identifying physical social actions is helpful beyond the more general examples of attending a conference or party described above. For example the sensor can be used as a helpful tool in live action role playing LARP . The sensor can be used to automatically detect interactions integral to a game. In one embodiment of the LARP game Humans vs. Zombies the apparatus and systems described above can be used to detect that user A playing a human was chased by user B playing a zombie and ultimately tagged by user B. The benefit of this feature is that interactions that are critical to the performance of the game can be recorded automatically and optionally posted to the social networking system without interrupting the flow of the game.

Continuing with this example the sensor can also be used to provide user specific instructions during LARP such as the duration of time outs the duration that a user is required to play a particular role and other similar rules and or instructions. The benefit of this application is that the game can be performed seamlessly with the assistance of the sensor unlike traditional LARP which often requires the players to interrupt the flow of the game to consult rules timers record interactions and the like. Furthermore to facilitate this application and other embodiments described above the sensor may be optionally configured to include a visual or tactile indicator such as an LED or haptic feedback to indicate the performance of a physical social action. Similarly the sensor can also be integrated into more traditional games such as football basketball and others.

In another application the sensors are not necessarily used with a social networking system but instead are used primarily as indicators used to infer an action from other systems. For example if the sensor A is associated with a human user and the sensor B is associated with a blanket proximity and movement of the two sensors can be used by the system to trigger a heating system in a dwelling of the human user. Similarly the sensor can be used to automatically turn household lights on and off open automatic doors and the like. The sensor can also interact with home automation systems to turn appliances on and off control home entertainment systems change lighting levels and the like.

In still another application the system can be used to monitor interactions between users whether human non human or inanimate in a controlled setting such as a conference or employer sponsored retreat. For example the number of people at a conference location can be monitored the locations of the people within the conference center and the interactions between the conference attendees. Furthermore using the user profiles from social networking system accounts associated with the conference attendees patterns in interactions between attendees can be identified. These patterns can include common interests hobbies group associations musical preferences and the like. Other interactions such as menu and drink preferences in the case of food or beverage containers or serviceware fitted with a typically passive RFID chip identifying the food or beverage being served attendance at particular sessions of the conference and popular meeting locations within a conference center can also be identified. These interactions can be of particular use to the conference organizers in anticipating the needs of their clients.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art may appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which may be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the embodiments which is set forth in the following claims.

