---

title: Secure information storage and delivery system and method
abstract: A system for secure information storage and delivery includes a vault repository that includes a secure vault associated with a user, wherein the secure vault is associated with a service level including at least one of a data type or a data size limit associated with the secure vault, the secure vault being adapted to receive and at least one data entry and securely store the at least one data entry if the at least one of a size or a type of the at least one data entry is consistent with the service level. A mobile vault server coupled to the vault repository creates a mobile vault on a mobile device based on the secure vault and is capable of authenticating the mobile device based on user authentication information. The mobile vault server includes a mobile device handler that communicates with the mobile device. A synchronization utility determines whether the at least one data entry on the secure vault is transferable to or storable on the mobile vault based on at least one of the size or the type of the at least one data entry and transfers the at least one data entry from the secure vault to a corresponding data entry on the mobile vault if the at least one data entry on the secure vault is determined to be transferable to or storable on the mobile vault.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09049190&OS=09049190&RS=09049190
owner: Intersections, Inc.
number: 09049190
owner_city: Chantilly
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131202
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 350 171 filed Jan. 13 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 068 636 filed Feb. 8 2008 and which issued on Feb. 14 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 117 648. The entire contents of each of the foregoing are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to identity theft solutions and more particularly to secure storage of personal information to avoid identity theft.

In today s world most people have numerous account numbers credit card numbers Personal Identification Numbers PIN and passwords which are often difficult to remember and keep track of but are frequently needed to gain access to personal accounts. For example an individual may have several bank accounts e.g a checking account a savings account and a certificate of deposit CD account several student accounts a frequent flyers account several insurance accounts etc. each of which has an account number associated with it. Further each account may also be associated with a user ID and a password for online access. Relying solely on memory to remember all this information may be impractical. Further storage of such information in an insecure manner may subject the information to loss or theft which could potentially lead to identity theft. Thus a safe and secure storage mechanism that allows the user instant access to such information is highly desirable.

In addition instant access to important personal documents such as legal documents e.g. deeds will power of attorney etc and financial documents e.g. bank statements W 2 form etc is also often desirable. Storage of such documents in a database accessible through the web is possible. However once again if these documents or the information they contain fall into the wrong hands such documents can be used for identity theft. Accordingly what is needed is a mechanism for storage and delivery of important personal information and data that allows instant access to the information and data without comprising the security of the information and data.

An exemplary method for secure information storage and delivery accordingly to an embodiment of the present invention may include creating a secure vault associated with a user in a vault repository the secure vault being adapted to securely store data receiving a service level associated with the secure vault the service level comprising at least one of a data type or a data size limit associated with the secure vault receiving at least one data entry storing the at least one data entry in the secure vault if the at least one of a size or a type of the at least one data entry is consistent with the service level creating a mobile vault on a mobile device based on the secure vault receiving user authentication information from the mobile device for authentication and synchronizing the mobile vault with the secure vault. In an exemplary embodiment the synchronizing step may include for each of the at least one data entry determining whether the at least one data entry on the secure vault is transferable to or storable on the mobile vault based on at least one of the size or the type of the at least one data entry and transferring the at least one data entry from the secure vault to a corresponding data entry on the mobile vault if the at least one data entry on the secure vault is determined to be transferable to or storable on the mobile vault.

An exemplary system for secure information storage and delivery according to an embodiment of the present invention may include a vault repository including a secure vault associated with a user wherein the secure vault is associated with a service level including at least one of a data type or a data size limit associated with the secure vault the secure vault being adapted to receive and at least one data entry and securely store the at least one data entry if the at least one of a size or a type of the at least one data entry is consistent with the service level. The exemplary system may further include a mobile vault server coupled to the vault repository that creates a mobile vault on a mobile device based on the secure vault and is capable of authenticating the mobile device based on user authentication information. In an exemplary embodiment the mobile vault server may include a mobile device handler that communicates with the mobile device and a synchronization utility that determines whether the at least one data entry on the secure vault is transferable to or storable on the mobile vault based on at least one of the size or the type of the at least one data entry and transfers the at least one data entry from the secure vault to a corresponding data entry on the mobile vault if the at least one data entry on the secure vault is determined to be transferable to or storable on the mobile vault.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the invention are discussed in detail below. In describing embodiments specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected. While specific exemplary embodiments are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations can be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a unique system and method that allow a user to conveniently store their most important information in a secure vault a secure storage utility used for storage and safekeeping of valuable personal information and documents. The vault is stored on a secure database and is accessible by the user after proper authentication. In an exemplary embodiment a two factor authentication is performed to allow user access to the vault. The secure vault stores important information such as e.g. but not limited to wills irreplaceable pictures financial documents contracts passwords account numbers etc. Secure access to that information may be available from anywhere in the world via for example a personal computer or a mobile device. In an exemplary embodiment the information may be sent from the vault to other destinations such as for example a fax machine or an email address.

Referring to there is illustrated an exemplary basic system block diagram according to an embodiment of the invention. In there is shown a vault server coupled to a vault repository . The vault server is coupled to a personal computer through a network such as the Internet or a Local Area Network LAN . Through the Internet a user operating the personal computer can store and access important data and information in a secure vault in the vault repository . Such data may include for example account numbers passwords PINs emergency contacts irreplaceable photos and important documents such as deeds bank statements personal journal insurance documents medical records and prescriptions. The secure vault may be associated exclusively with the user and may only be accessed upon authentication and in a secure manner by the user.

In an exemplary embodiment data securely stored in secure vault may be categorized into various data types. For example the data in the secure vault data may be divided into passwords User IDs and passwords associated with them cards bank cards and credit cards loyalty numbers text files photographs and other large documents. In addition a user account may be associated with a specific service level indicative of the amount size and type of data that may be stored in the secure vault . In an exemplary embodiment there may be four service levels each including a specific number of passwords pictures large documents etc. as well as the maximum total number of data items that may be stored in the secure vault at that level. Each service level may also have a pricing plan associated with it. An example of four service level is illustrated in table 1 below.

In an exemplary embodiment the personal computer may include a web vault . The web vault may include a copy of all or a portion of the secure vault stored locally on the personal computer . The web vault may provide the user with quick access to the information without the need for the user to log into the vault repository via the network. The contents of the web vault may be synchronized with the secure vault so that the data in the web vault may be updated and automatically synchronized with the corresponding data in the secure vault .

In addition to the vault server the system of also includes a mobile vault server coupled to the vault server . A mobile device e.g. a cell phone or PDA can connect to the mobile vault server through a mobile cloud e.g. a wireless network which may itself be coupled to the Internet. Accordingly the user may access the secure vault in the vault repository using the mobile device . The mobile device may be coupled to the vault repository via the mobile vault server and the vault server . Alternatively the mobile vault server may be directly coupled to the vault repository .

In an exemplary embodiment the mobile device may include a mobile vault which includes a copy of all or a portion of the secure vault . Similarly to the web vault the mobile vault may be synchronized with the secure vault . In an exemplary embodiment data that is too large for transmission or storage on the mobile device may be prevented from being transmitted from the secure vault to the mobile vault . Specifically in an exemplary embodiment the mobile vault may be adapted to store certain data types of sufficiently small size and such data may be synchronized between the mobile vault and the secure vault . In an exemplary embodiment if a particular data file is determined to be too large for transmission information such as file name data type or data size of the file may be transmitted to the mobile vault . Further a snapshot of the data such as e.g. a first page of the document or a small version of a photo may be transmitted to the mobile vault . In an exemplary embodiment the user may request such data to be sent from the secure vault to a specified destination via email fax or SMS. For example the mobile device may be configured to allow the user to select a specific data file select a transmission option e.g. fax email SMS and specify a destination e.g. an email address fax number or mobile number to which the data is sent. The user may make such a request using the mobile device and or the personal computer .

In addition to the personal computer including a web vault and the mobile device including a mobile vault a user may also use any other computer coupled to the secure vault to access the secure vault . In an exemplary embodiment the user may retrieve authentication information as will be described later in detail from the mobile device or the personal computer and use that information to get access to the secure vault through the computer .

The application servers may be coupled to the web servers and provide the back end application software that is responsive to and handles the requests. The application servers may include a storage unit which includes the back end application software. The application software provides the web servers with methods and protocols to handle the requests.

The application servers may also include a DBMS Database Management Server such as Oracle DB2 Microsoft Access Microsoft SQL Server Postgres MySQL or FileMaker which manages storage and retrieval of information to and from a database coupled to the application servers . In an exemplary embodiment one such database is the member database which contains user registration information such as for example name address and billing information. The member database may be coupled to an account management unit which manages storage of user information on the database . Also coupled to the member database may be a billing module which handles billing the user via e.g. a credit card transaction automatic debit etc.

In an exemplary embodiment the application servers are coupled to the vault repository though a virtual private network VNP . The VNP is a secure communications network tunneled through another network such as the Internet. The vault repository may include a secure database coupled to the application servers via a communications server . The communications server may be for example an open standards based computing system that operates as a carrier grade open platform for a wide range of communications applications. In an exemplary embodiment the secure vault associated with the user may be stored in the secure database .

The communications server in the exemplary embodiment includes an application programming interface API which is a code interface used to support requests to send or receive data to or from the vault repository . The API may be public or private. Examples of API may include the Single UNIX Specification and the Microsoft Windows API. The API includes terms and methods provided as an interface to the vault repository . In an exemplary embodiment the information on the API is hidden from the general public and is available privately only to an authorized party e.g. the vault server who can access the vault repository via the VNP . Thus using the API the vault server can control who gains access to the secure database . For added security in an exemplary embodiment there may also be provided an encryption server between the communications server and the secure database to encrypt decrypt the data send to or received from the vault server .

In an exemplary embodiment the personal computer may connect to the vault repository via the vault server . A user operating the personal computer may create a secure vault on the vault repository in which the user may store personal data and documents. The user may access the vault repository in order to retrieve update and store data to the secure vault . In addition to the secure vault the user may create a web vault on the personal computer . The web vault can be synchronized with the secure vault . The user may also create a mobile vault on the mobile device which the user can then synchronize with the secure vault . Further using the mobile vault on the mobile device the user may update add and delete data from the vault repository or request data to be sent to a third destination such as e.g. a fax machine an email address etc.

In an exemplary system of the present invention the mobile vault server may include an API which provides the mobile device a communication interface to access the vault though the mobile cloud . The API may be public or private. In an exemplary embodiment the API is private so that only a mobile device including a mobile vault can recognize the API to communicate with the mobile vault server . In addition the mobile vault server may include a security module which may be a firewall and or a data encryption decryption module.

Coupled to the security module may be a mobile data manager . The mobile data manager receives various requests e.g. requests for information or synchronization from the mobile device through the API processes the requests and provides the mobile device with information through the mobile device handler . The mobile data manager may include an internal memory or database which may include the application code that manages and processes the various requests. The mobile data manager is coupled to the vault repository through the vault server . The mobile data manager forwards a request to the vault server and upon receipt of data from the vault server processes and forward the received data to a desired destination specified by the user through the mobile device handler . The mobile device handler receives the data from the mobile data manager and formats and outputs the requested data to the desired destination. In an exemplary embodiment the formatting and processing of data is performed in accordance to a delivery method and destination specified by the user. The delivery method may be for example a fax sent to a fax machine an email sent to a desired email address through the Internet a SMS text message sent to the mobile device or a SMS text message sent to another mobile device. Accordingly the mobile device may send requests for a document a picture an account number etc. to be sent to a particular email address fax number or SMS number. The mobile device may also initiate synchronization with the secure vault in the vault repository in which case the mobile device handler formats and forwards the data to the mobile device .

In addition in an exemplary embodiment the mobile vault server may include a synchronization utility coupled to the mobile data manager . In this case the synchronization utility is responsible for monitoring the data that is being sent to the mobile device . If the size of the data is too large for transfer or storage in the mobile device the synchronization utility may prevent the data transfer to the mobile device . In an exemplary embodiment data may be classified by data types e.g. passwords cards text files photographs and large documents and certain data types e.g. photographs and large documents may be prevented from being transmitted to the mobile device . In an alternative embodiment the data having a size greater than a threshold data size may be prevented from being transferred to the mobile device . Further in an embodiment of the invention if certain data is determined to be too large for transmission snapshots of the data e.g. a small photo snapshot or a view of the first document may be created and transmitted to the mobile device . The snapshot may be created at run time or may be created and stored at the vault prior to request for synchronization. Additionally or alternatively other information regarding the data for example data size data number of pages title etc. may be transmitted to the mobile device representing the corresponding data in the vault .

Referring now to there is illustrated an exemplary process flow diagram for installation and access to the web vault using the personal computer according to an embodiment of the invention. In the exemplary process starting with block and continuing with block the vault server receives registration information from the user to create an account. The registration information may include for example the residence and billing information. In an exemplary embodiment registration information also includes a service type block . Service type may include for example the size of the secure vault associated with the account and or the type and size of the data that can be stored in the secure vault as previously explained.

After receiving the user registration information a secure vault associated with the account is created in the vault repository block . A unique access code and a password may also be received and associated with the secure vault . Alternatively an access code may be assigned to the account by the vault server .

The user may then download a software application herein referred to as the web vault application through the Internet and install the web vault application on the computer . The web vault application provides secure access from a personal computer to the secure vault block . The web vault application is typically a software program that is installed and runs locally on the personal computer . Alternatively the web vault application may be a web based program running on the application servers executable through a browser on the personal computer . The web vault application allows the user to access the secure vault associated with that user on the vault repository in order to store and or retrieve personal information in a secure manner.

In an exemplary embodiment during or after the web vault application download the vault server may generate and install at least one soft token i.e. software token on the personal computer . If the web vault application is a web application running through a browser the soft token may be in the form of a cookie. The soft token is used to ensure that the computer is associated with a valid user and is associated with the secure vault . The soft token is also used for user authentication as will be described later in detail.

Once the web software application is installed the user may sign in to the secure vault on the vault repository using the access code and password block . The access code and password validation may occur at the web vault application at the vault server or at the vault repository . In an exemplary embodiment the soft token may keep count of the number of times the user enters the access code and password and block the user out of the web vault application if the access code and or password are entered incorrectly more than a predetermined number of times.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention in order to provide further security a two factor authentication is provided. Two factor authentication includes a second factor for user authentication in addition to the validation of the access code and password discussed above. In this case the second factor includes authentication using a one time password OTP in addition to verification of user s access code and password. An OTP is a password that is altered each time it is regenerated in order to minimize its exposure to unauthorized intruders. In this case the OTP is generated at two different nodes an OTP server not shown resident on the vault server or the vault repository and the soft token on the user computer . There are three common types of OTP. In one embodiment the OTP is generated using a mathematical algorithm based on the previous OTP. Thus starting from a common password both the OTP server and the soft token on the computer always generate the same new password. In a second embodiment the OTP is generated based on time synchronization between the OTP server and the soft token. In this embodiment the soft token includes an accurate clock that has been synchronized with a clock of the OTP server and the password is generated based on the two clocks. In a third embodiment the OTP is generated using a mathematical algorithm that is based on a challenge e.g. a random number determined based on transaction details and a counter.

In order to perform two factor authentication the soft token on the user computer generates a first OTP to be sent along with the user s access code and password to the vault server block . The two factor authentication may be performed at the vault server and or the vault repository . In an exemplary embodiment the vault server performs a first authentication on the access code and password. If the access code and password are valid the vault server then forwards the first OTP generated by the soft token to the vault repository block . The vault repository may include an OTP server that handles a second factor authentication. In that case the OTP server receives the first OTP generates a second OTP independently and compares the first OTP with the second OTPs. If the first OTP matches the second OTP the user is authenticated to access the secure vault on the vault repository . Otherwise the user may be blocked out of the secure vault .

Once two factor authentication is performed the user is allowed access to the secure vault . In an exemplary embodiment in order to allow the user access to the secure vault a copy of the secure vault is also stored locally in a web vault within a hard disk or memory of the personal computer . The web vault may be created by the web vault application. The web vault may be synchronized with the secure vault in the vault repository automatically or upon user request block . In an exemplary embodiment the web vault may only be downloaded on a personal computer that includes a soft token. The synchronization may be one way such that the user may update the web vault via the personal computer and later synchronize the secure vault to include the updated data of the web vault or vice versa. Alternatively the synchronization may be two way such that the user may specify which of the secure vault or the web vault is to be synchronized. In yet another embodiment two way synchronization may be performed automatically such that based on which data entry was last updated data may be copied from the web vault to the secure vault or vice versa. Using the web vault the user can safely and securely store their most important personal data which they can access through the personal computer . The process flow may then end block .

Referring now to there is depicted an exemplary process flow diagram for accessing the secure vault from a mobile device according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. In the exemplary process flow starting with block and continuing on to block a request is received though the web vault application running on the computer to associate a mobile device with the vault allowing the user to access the vault using the mobile device . To associate the mobile device the user enters a device ID of the mobile device in the web vault application on the personal computer block . The device ID may include for example a telephone number a mobile IP address or other mobile identification number associated with the mobile device . The mobile device may be a cell phone a PDA or any other mobile computing device. The web vault application forwards the device ID along with the request to associate the mobile device with the vault server . The vault server then forwards the device ID to the mobile vault server . The mobile data manager may send a communication though the mobile device handler to the mobile device block .

In an exemplary embodiment the communication may be an SMS message including a URL. The user clicks submit on the mobile device to follow the URL. Thereafter a validation page appears on the mobile device browser including an activation code block . The user may use this activation code to enter a site associated with the secure vault on the mobile device . From this site the user may view the contents of the vault block . In a further embodiment the user may also update upload or delete the data entries in the vault . The process flow may end block .

Referring now to an exemplary process flow diagram for creating accessing and synchronizing a mobile vault is illustrated according to an embodiment of the invention. In this embodiment starting with block and continuing to block the user may request a mobile vault application to be downloaded on the mobile device . The mobile vault application may create a mobile vault on the mobile device which may include a copy of all or a portion of the secure vault stored locally on the mobile device . The mobile vault application may also include a synchronization mechanism requesting the data from the secure vault to be transferred to the mobile vault . The mobile vault application may also create a virtual environment on the mobile device referred to herein as the mobile wallet. In an exemplary embodiment the mobile wallet provides an interface through which the user may directly access the mobile vault and or the secure vault .

In order to activate the mobile vault in the mobile vault application the user enters an activation code which may be the activation code previously received in in the browser window block . Thereafter the mobile vault application is uploaded onto the mobile device block . In an exemplary embodiment a soft token may also be stored in a local memory of the mobile device during the installation of the mobile vault program. The mobile vault application may create a mobile vault on the mobile device . The mobile vault application may also set up a mobile wallet interface for user access to the mobile vault and or the secure vault . In an exemplary embodiment the mobile wallet may display the list of items stored in the secure vault and mobile vault and give the user an option to synchronize the mobile vault with the secure vault . Further the mobile wallet may give the user an option to delete update or view the data in the mobile vault and or the secure vault .

After the installation is complete the user may start the mobile wallet and log in using their access code and password block . Similarly to the process described for the personal computer with reference the soft token in the mobile device automatically generates an OTP to allow access to the vault repository . After the user logs in using the access code and password and the OTP is generated the mobile vault application forwards the access code password and the OTP to the mobile vault server for authentication and if allowed connects to the mobile vault server block . Through the mobile wallet the user may connect to the vault repository so as to access the secure vault . The user may then add delete or update the contents of the secure vault via the mobile device using the mobile vault application.

In addition the user may use the mobile wallet to update and synchronize the mobile vault on the mobile device with the secure vault block . The synchronization process may start automatically upon the user login or alternatively may start upon specific user request for synchronization. The user may add delete or update the data in the mobile vault upon user authentication. The synchronization process however may require two factor authentication. In an exemplary embodiment the synchronization utility may control the flow of data to the mobile device . For example after user request for data synchronization to the mobile vault or user request for specific data in the secure vault the synchronization utility may monitor the size of the data being transferred and if the data is too large for wireless transfer or if it is too large to be stored in the mobile device the synchronization utility may prevent the data from being transferred to the mobile device . Upon synchronization the user s changes in the mobile vault may automatically be reflected in the secure vault . Alternatively the synchronization may be made from the secure vault to the mobile vault so that the mobile vault is updated according to the contents of the secure vault . In yet another embodiment the synchronization utility may determine which of the secure vault or mobile vault was the latest to be updated and synchronize the other accordingly.

According to a further embodiment of the invention in addition to accessing and viewing the data on the mobile device data may be sent from the secure vault to a specified destination such as a fax machine an email address or another mobile device block . In that case the mobile vault server delivers the requested data such as documents or information to that destination. In an exemplary embodiment the user is presented with a list of items in the vault repository and can select one or more specific items to be sent. The user is also presented with a field on a screen of the mobile device which may be presented through the mobile wallet interface where she can enter a fax number an email address a phone number or other destination address. After the mobile data manager receives the selected item and the destination address it sends the requested data via the mobile device handler to the designated destination in the appropriate format for example of an email a fax a SMS message etc. block . The process flow may end block .

Turning now to an exemplary process flow diagram is depicted for synchronization of mobile vault with secure vault according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. In starting with the process may continue with the synchronization utility receiving a request for synchronization from the mobile device block . Alternatively synchronization may be performed upon user login and without specific request for synchronization. In yet another embodiment synchronization may be performed periodically or may even be initiated by the synchronization utility upon occurrence of an event e.g. upon determination that the secure vault or the mobile vault has been recently modified or updated .

After receiving a request for synchronization in an exemplary embodiment the synchronization utility may then determine the direction of synchronization i.e. whether the secure vault or the mobile vault is to be updated block . The request for synchronization may be indicated in the request for synchronization. Alternatively the synchronization utility may determine which of the secure vault or the mobile vault was the latest to be modified or updated and synchronize the other accordingly. If the secure vault is to be synchronized with the mobile vault the process may proceed to perform synchronization by updating the data in the secure vault based on the contents of the mobile vault block .

In an exemplary embodiment if synchronization is to be performed from secure vault to mobile vault the synchronization utility may proceed to determine whether the size of any of the data for synchronization is too large for transfer or storage on the mobile device block . If so the synchronization utility may prevent the data from being transferred. In an exemplary embodiment data may be categorized into various types e.g. passwords cards text files large documents and photos and the synchronization utility may prevent data files of particular types e.g. photos and large documents from being transferred to the mobile device . Alternatively the synchronization utility may prevent files larger than a predetermined threshold data size from being transferred to the mobile device . Otherwise the synchronization utility may proceed with synchronization block . The process may then end block .

In an exemplary embodiment if the synchronization utility blocks transfer of a file it may issue a message to the mobile device indicating an error in transfer or notifying the user that e.g. the file is not transferable block . The synchronization utility may also give the user an option to specify a destination e.g. email address or fax for a data file that is too large for transfer or storage to be sent.

In a further embodiment if the data is too large for transfer or storage on the mobile device the synchronization utility may create a snapshot of the data file e.g. by truncating a large photo to a small snapshot or creating a one page document including the first page of a large document to be sent to the mobile device block . The snapshot may also include a compressed version of the data file. Additionally or alternatively the synchronization utility may transfer information relating to the data file e.g. data type size date of creation title etc. to the mobile device . The synchronization utility may then send the snapshot or file information to the mobile vault block . Alternatively the original data file may be sent to a specific destination e.g. fax number of email specified by the user. The process may then end block .

In a further embodiment of the invention the user may use a computer other than the personal computer which may not include the web vault and or the soft token to access the contents of the secure vault . The personal computer may include the soft token necessary to generate an OTP for access to the secure vault and may synchronize the web vault resident on the personal computer with the secure vault . The computer however does not include a web vault nor does it include a soft token to allow user access to the secure vault .

In addition to secure storage and delivery of personal data embodiments of the invention may provide delivery of additional services to the mobile device . In an exemplary embodiment such services may include but are not limited to identity theft solutions identity risk analysis banking solutions travel advisory legal and financial services etc.

In an exemplary embodiment the banking services provider is coupled to one or more bank accounts of the user and provides the user the ability to check their account balance using the mobile device in a secure manner via the mobile vault server . Further the banking services provider monitors the bank account and sends the user a notification upon an occurrence of a trigger. The trigger may be for example occurrence of an unusual or suspicious activity on the account suspension of the account or if the account balance falls below a predetermined level. The notification can be an SMS sent through the mobile vault server to the mobile device .

The legal advice provider may be for example an entity providing online legal advice. In an exemplary embodiment the user types in a legal question through the mobile device the personal computer or the computer . The question is directed to the legal advice provider though the service management server . The user may also provide a fax number or email address where the response can be send. A legal expert may provide a response which is then sent back to the service management server . The user is then billed accordingly for the legal services and the expert s response is directed to the destination provided by the user. The financial advice provider operates in a similar manner.

In an exemplary embodiment the travel advisory may be configured to send weather advisory alert to user upon occurrence of a certain trigger. The trigger may be for example prediction or detection of severe weather in a certain geographic area. Weather advisory may also include advising the user on the weather in travel destinations. The travel advisory may also be coupled to a flight information center not shown to provide flight information to the user including for example whether they should expect a delay in a scheduled flight. The travel advisory may send alerts via an SMS message to the user on the mobile device .

The identity theft solutions provider may provide a variety of identity theft solutions to the user via the mobile device . In an exemplary embodiment the identity theft solutions provider monitors the user s various bank accounts credit accounts information databases etc. and alerts the user if the user s identity has been compromised. Also the identity theft solutions provider may perform an identity theft risk score analysis based on various criteria such as e.g. the degree of compromise of the person s identity in an online credit card transaction. The identity theft solutions provider then sends the user an alert e.g. in the form of a SMS message to the mobile device if the risk score is higher than a predetermined number. Similarly the credit monitoring provider monitors the credit activities of the user on various credit bureaus e.g. Equifax Expedian and TransUnion and sends an alert to the user s mobile device if there is a negative reporting to any of the credit bureaus.

The embodiments illustrated and discussed in this specification are intended only to teach those skilled in the art the best way known to the inventors to make and use the invention. The above described embodiments of the invention may be modified or varied and elements added or omitted without departing from the invention as appreciated by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. For example the order in which the steps are performed may be varied as long as the above described dependencies are maintained. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the claims and their equivalents the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

