---

title: Rotation device for load transporting apparatus
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a load transporting apparatus that is capable of being steered while transporting a load across a base surface. In particular, the load transporting apparatus includes a roller track configured to support movement of a roller assembly, and a support foot that is connected to the roller track with a pin connector. During load transport, the support foot can be maintained in a substantially similar position relative to a frame structure supporting the load even when the transport movement is not in a parallel direction to the orientation of the support foot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09045178&OS=09045178&RS=09045178
owner: ENTRO INDUSTRIES, INC.
number: 09045178
owner_city: Hillsboro
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130916
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 193 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 573 334 issued Nov. 5 2013 entitled ROTATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 576 657 filed Dec. 16 2011 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TRANSPORTING A LOAD the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 269 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 561 733 issued Oct. 22 2013 entitled ALIGNMENT RESTORATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 711 315 filed Dec. 11 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 490 724 issued Jul. 23 2013 entitled CENTERING DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to apparatuses for transporting a load and more particularly to apparatuses for moving heavy loads over small distances with the ability to fine tune the resultant position of the heavy load.

Moving extremely heavy loads has generally been a complicated task because the large forces involved in lifting and transporting the heavy loads. When possible large loads are often transported by disassembling or breaking up the load into multiple smaller loads. However this break down and subsequent reassembly process can be very time consuming especially when a heavy load is only to be moved a small distance or needs to be repositioned.

For heavy loads that need periodic movement or adjustment devices commonly referred to as walking machines or walkers were developed. These machines typically move the heavy loads over small distances in incremental stages. Walking machines are particularly useful for moving large structures such as oil rigs which often times need to be moved in order to properly position them over pre drilled pipes in oil fields or moved to a new location that is undergoing oil exploration.

Instead of using wheels driven by rotational forces to move heavy loads walking machines typically use hydraulic lift cylinders to lift the load above a supporting surface and then move or rotate the load relative to the supporting surface by transporting the load via rollers or tracks in the walking machines. U.S. Pat. No. 5 921 336 to Reed and U.S. Pat. No. 6 581 525 to Smith show two methods of using walking machines to move heavy loads such as oil rig structures. The 525 patent shows elongated beams under several rollers and lift cylinders which allows the load from the lift cylinders and rollers to be spread over a large area. However this disclosed system in the 525 patent does not allow for movement of heavy load in a direction perpendicular to the long axis of the support beams. That is movement of the heavy load is restricted in the walking device disclosed in the 525 patent to only particular directions which can make fine tuning of the position of the heavy load difficult.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to apparatuses for transporting loads where the apparatuses are structured to steer the loads in order to efficiently move the loads between set positions. In some embodiments a load transporting apparatus that is capable of being steered while transporting a load across a base surface is provided. In these embodiments the load transporting apparatus includes a roller track configured to support movement of a roller assembly and a support foot that is connected to the roller track with a pin connector. During load transport the support foot can be maintained in a substantially similar position relative to a frame structure supporting the load even when the transport movement is not in a parallel direction to the orientation of the support foot.

As described above walkers or walking machines are vehicles that are used for transporting very heavy loads such as entire oil well drilling rigs. Such loads may be as great as several thousand tons and may be required to be sequentially positioned very precisely over spaced apart well bores for example. Embodiments of the present concept are directed to load transporting apparatuses such as walking machines for moving heavy loads over small distances with the ability to fine tune the resultant position of the heavy load. For ease of understanding the terms walkers walking machines walking devices and walking apparatuses are used interchangeably below. Load transporting apparatuses or systems may include one or more walking machines. Additionally a walking machine s subassembly of components that facilitate movement of the walking machine are referred herein as a walking mechanism. Walking machines may incorporate one or more walking mechanisms depending on the specific configuration of a walking machine.

For example with reference a load transporting system includes multiple walking machines that support a load being carried by the load transporting system. show examples of walking apparatuses attached to various loads according to embodiments of the invention. Referring to multiple walking apparatuses are positioned under or adjacent to an oil rig . Typically walking machines are positioned at least near edge portions of a load to balance the weight of the load over the various walking machines. However specific situations may dictate that walking machines are positioned in various other locations relative to the load .

Referring to multiple walking apparatuses are positioned under or adjacent to a silo . Although an oil rig load and a silo are respectively illustrated in walking machines may be used to move any type of relatively large load such as bridge sections ship sections structures etc. Additionally although two walking machines are shown in more or fewer walking machines may be used to move loads .

Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to lift the load above the base surface . The walking apparatuses may again be operated substantially simultaneously to lift the load or may be operated in intervals depending on the conditions associated with the desired move.

Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to move the load to the right. Although shows the load being moved to the right the walking apparatuses can be operated to move the load in a variety of directions depending on the desired final location of the load. Referring to the walking apparatuses are operated to lower the load to the base surface and to raise the foot portions of the walking apparatuses above the base surface. That is after the load is positioned on the base surface the walking apparatuses are further operated so that they are raised above the base surface. Here the connection between the walking apparatuses and the load support the walking apparatuses when they are raised above the base surface . After the walking apparatuses are raised above the base surface they are further operated to be repositioned for another movement walking step such as by moving the foot portions of the walking apparatuses to the right so that they are in a position as shown in . That is the base surface touching part of the walking apparatuses e.g. the support foot and related structures is moved to the right while the walking apparatuses are raised above the base surface . After the walking apparatuses have been repositioned they are operated to be lowered to the base surface as shown in . This completes a single walking cycle and further walking cycles or steps can be performed by repeating the steps described above with respect to .

As mentioned above walking apparatuses can be connected to loads in a variety of ways depending on the specific conditions surrounding the load. illustrate two such connection schemes. Although two connection schemes are illustrated in embodiments of the invention are not limited to such connection schemes as many different connection variations exist and are included in the scope of this concept.

Referring to a walking apparatus includes a support foot to interface with a base surface and a lift mechanism to raise and lower a load . In the embodiment shown in the lift mechanism of the walking apparatus is attached to a connection frame which in turn is bolted to framework supporting the load with bolts or other connection mechanisms. In some embodiments the connection frame may be part of the walking apparatus and in some instances may be permanently welded bolted or otherwise connected to the lift mechanism of the walking apparatus. In other embodiments the connection frame may be separate from the walking apparatus and may only be temporarily used with the walking apparatus in certain situations. In these embodiments for example multiple different connection frames may be built or used with specific load conditions or specifications.

In these embodiments the roller track is separate from but connected to the support foot that contacts the base surface . As discussed above the support foot is connected to the roller track with a pin connector which allows the roller track to rotate relative to the support foot. This means that the support foot can be oriented in a first direction while the roller track is oriented in a second direction. As discussed in more detail below this ability to vary the orientations of the roller track and support foot allows the load supporting apparatus to be precisely steered which in turns allows a load to be moved more efficiently between locations.

In some embodiments the pin connector is a king pin connector that allows rotation about an axis in one degree of freedom while limiting movement in other planes of travel. In some embodiments the pin connector may further include a bearing not shown to facilitate smooth rotational movements. However because of the heavy weight associated with the loads being moved by the walking apparatus other embodiments do not have a bearing to prevent damage to the internal structure of a bearing.

The lift mechanism may include a lift cylinder that is connected to a load bearing frame and a cylinder rod coupled to the roller assembly . Here the cylinder rod may be structured to allow the roller assembly to rotate about a substantially vertical axis in the center of the cylinder rod. That is the roller assembly may be free to rotate around the cylinder rod . The connection between the roller assembly and the cylinder rod may be a bearing or one of a number of different connection variations. In one embodiment the cylinder rod may include a groove not shown around side edges of a lower portion of the cylinder rod where the groove corresponds to a retainer cuff not shown of the roller assembly . In this example the retainer cuff is rotatable around the groove but may easily be assembled or disassembled during installation break down or transportation of the walking apparatus .

Although the embodiment shown in show the lift cylinder connected to the load bearding frame and the cylinder rod connected to the roller apparatus in other embodiments the cylinder rod may be connected to the load bearing frame and the lift cylinder may be connected to the roller apparatus. In these other embodiments the cylinder may be structured to allow the roller assembly to rotate about a substantially vertical axis.

The walking apparatus may also include a travel mechanism that is connected to the roller track and coupled to the roller assembly such that when the travel mechanism is activated the roller assembly moves relative to the roller track. In the embodiment shown in the travel mechanism includes two travel cylinders mounted on the roller track on opposite sides of the roller track. Here the travel cylinders of the travel mechanism may balance the load being moved by the roller assembly over the roller track . In other embodiments one travel cylinder or three or more travel cylinders may be used to move the roller assembly relative to the roller track . In other embodiments the travel mechanism may include different movement structures such as pulleys levers winches tracks etc.

In the embodiments shown in the roller assembly may include a plurality of rollers or roller chain that rotate as well as roll on the roller track . That is in some embodiments the roller assembly may include a WBOT series roller assembly from Hillman Rollers such as shown in . Due to the configuration of the roller chain of the roller assembly and the tolerance between the roller assembly and the roller track of the walking machine the rollers of the roller chain will typically be engaged with the roller track during operation and use of the walking machine.

As discussed above the roller assembly may be secured to the lower end of the cylinder rod with the roller assembly being captured within a U shaped roller track as shown in . The roller assembly may be configured to roll along the bottom inside surface of the roller track as well as along the underside of the two upper flanges of the roller track. The one or more travel cylinders may be coupled between the cylinder rod and the roller track . Accordingly as will be understood from the more detailed discussion below these travel cylinders permit for the translation of the roller track relative to the lift mechanism and vice versa. The roller track may be secured to an elongate ground engaging foot support foot via a rotational pin which enables the roller track to be rotationally positioned relative to the foot for steering of the walking machine .

In some embodiments the roller track may include travel slots structured to connect the roller assembly to the roller track . Here the travel slots may be configured to allow substantially linear movement of the roller assembly across the roller track .

As shown in co pending application Ser. No. 13 711 269 entitled ALIGNMENT RESTORATION DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety a walking apparatus may also include one or more linking devices coupled to the support foot . One or more biasing devices may be coupled to the linking devices where the biasing devices are structured to become activated during a load movement phase when the roller assembly travels in a direction that is not parallel or perpendicular to a lengthwise direction that the support foot is oriented and structured to return the support foot to an aligned position relative to the load bearing frame during a recovery phase.

In some embodiments the one or more biasing devices may become activated when an angular displacement occurs between the support foot and the load bearing frame where the activation of the one or more biasing devices includes a torquing force being applied to the one or more biasing devices. In other embodiments the linking devices may be structured to be connected to at least one other load transporting apparatus.

As shown in co pending application Ser. No. 13 711 315 entitled CENTERING DEVICE FOR LOAD TRANSPORTING APPARATUS the contents of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety a walking apparatus may also include one or more guide devices positioned adjacent to the roller assembly and one or more biasing devices coupled to the guide devices. Here the biasing devices may be structured to become deflected during a load movement phase when the roller assembly travels in a direction that is not parallel or perpendicular to a lengthwise direction that the support foot is oriented and structured to return the support foot to a centered position relative to the support foot during a recovery phase.

Referring to a step in a walking motion of the walking machine is illustrated. Specifically as indicated by the vertical arrows pointing up when the lift mechanism is activated the roller assembly the roller track and the foot are lifted above the base surface or ground as a single unit. This is due in part because the roller assembly which is secured to the lower end of the travel mechanism is captured by the roller track as discussed above.

Referring to a next step in a walking motion of the walking machine is illustrated. Here as indicated by the horizontal arrow pointing to the left the travel cylinders are extended to shift the roller track to the left along the roller assembly . Because the roller track is secured to the foot via the rotation pin the foot also is shifted to the left. The distance of travel of the foot may be limited by the operable travel or throw of the travel cylinders . Because the lateral travel is limited the roller tracks only need to be long enough to accommodate the corresponding distance traveled by the roller assembly . As illustrated in this step occurs while the foot is lifted completely off of the base or ground surface and with the full weight of the load being supported by the load bearing or main frame and its ground engaging portions.

Referring to the next step of the walking process is shown. Here the lift mechanism is activated i.e. the cylinder rod of the hydraulic jack is forced out of the lift cylinder causing the foot to engage the base surface . As the lift mechanism continues to operate the ground engaging portions of the load bearing frame are lifted off of the base surface so that the entire weight of the load is then supported by the support foot .

Referring to while the load bearing frame is lifted off of the base surface and the foot is supporting the load the travel cylinders are retracted causing the entire load bearing frame including the supported load to translate to the left as indicated by the horizontal arrows pointing to the left in the view shown in . As shown in this figure the load bearing frame has shifted to the left away from its starting position a distance corresponding to the operable throw of the travel cylinders . During this translation to the left the roller assembly rolls along the bottom inside surface of the roller track .

Referring to the rod of the lift mechanism is retracted which causes the load bearing frame to be lowered and to engage the base surface and support the load. As the lift mechanism continues to be activated the foot is lifted off of the base surface . Thus the walking machine returns to a similar orientation as shown in and . To continue moving the steps shown in may be repeated. Accordingly cycling through the above illustrated sequential steps will cause the walking apparatus to walk across the base surface .

That is a load transporting system that is configured to move a load over a base surface in one or more incremental steps each including a load movement phase and a recovery phase includes a load bearing frame structured to support the load on the base surface. The load transporting system includes a first load transporting apparatus including a first lift mechanism coupled to the load bearing frame and structured to lift the load bearing frame supporting the load . The first load transporting apparatus also includes a first roller assembly coupled to the first lift mechanism a first roller track connected to the first roller assembly and configured to allow the first roller assembly to move over the first roller track in a first direction and a first travel mechanism coupled to the first roller track and connected to the first roller assembly the first travel mechanism structured to displace the first roller assembly relative to the first roller track along the first direction. The first load transporting apparatus is connected to a first support foot positioned below the first roller track the first support foot structured to interface with the base surface. The first support foot is connected to the first roller track with a first pin connector . The first pin connector is structured to allow the first roller track to rotate relative to the first support foot.

The load transporting system also includes a second load transporting apparatus that includes a second lift mechanism coupled to the load bearing frame and structured to lift the load bearing frame supporting the load . The second load transporting apparatus includes a second roller assembly coupled to the second lift mechanism a second roller track connected to the second roller assembly and configured to allow the second roller assembly to move over the second roller track in a second direction and a second travel mechanism coupled to the second roller track and connected to the second roller assembly the second travel mechanism structured to displace the second roller assembly relative to the second roller track along the second direction. The second load transporting apparatus is connected to a second support foot positioned below the second roller track the second support foot structured to interface with the base surface. The second support foot is connected to the second roller track with a second pin connector . The second pin connector is structured to allow the second roller track to rotate relative to the second support foot.

As shown in however additional walking apparatuses are connected to each of support foot. In other embodiments more than two walking apparatuses may be coupled to the same support foot. In other embodiments more than two support feet with multiple walking machines are needed to safely and or efficiently lift and transport a load. For example a third load transporting apparatus may be connected to the same first support foot as the first load transporting apparatus and a fourth load transporting apparatus may be connected to the same second support foot as the second load transporting apparatus .

Here the third load transporting apparatus may include a third lift mechanism coupled to the load bearing frame and structured to lift the load bearing frame supporting the load . The third load transporting apparatus may also include a third roller assembly coupled to the third lift mechanism a third roller track connected to the third roller assembly and configured to allow the third roller assembly to move over the third roller track in a first direction and a third travel mechanism coupled to the third roller track and connected to the third roller assembly the third travel mechanism structured to displace the third roller assembly relative to the third roller track along the first direction. A third pin connector may connect the first support foot with the third roller track the third pin connector structured to allow the third roller track to rotate relative to the first support foot.

Additionally the fourth load transporting apparatus may include a fourth lift mechanism coupled to the load bearing frame and structured to lift the load bearing frame supporting the load . The fourth load transporting apparatus may include a fourth roller assembly coupled to the fourth lift mechanism a fourth roller track connected to the fourth roller assembly and configured to allow the fourth roller assembly to move over the fourth roller track in a second direction and a fourth travel mechanism coupled to the fourth roller track and connected to the fourth roller assembly the fourth travel mechanism structured to displace the fourth roller assembly relative to the fourth roller track along the second direction. A fourth pin connector may connect the second support foot with the fourth roller track the fourth pin connector structured to allow the fourth roller track to rotate relative to the second support foot.

As described above embodiments of the disclosed walking machine are capable of being steered while transporting a load across a base or ground surface. Since each roller track is rotationally secured to a foot with a rotation or king pin the roller track is able to be selectively rotated relative to the foot. illustrated exemplary steering modes that that made possible by utilizing a rotational pin to connect the support foot to the roller track.

Referring to a load connected to lift mechanisms of multiple load transporting apparatuses can be steered by rotating roller tracks and roller assemblies to a direction of travel even though support feet are not moved so as to be oriented in the same direction of travel. As shown in orienting the walking machines in diagonal directions relative to the orientation of the support feet allows for the load to be moved at a diagonal.

Referring to orienting the left two or more walking machines in a first direction and orienting the right two or more walking machines in a second complementary direction allows the load to be moved and steered in a complimentary steering mode.

Referring to orienting the left two or more walking machines in a first direction and orienting the right two or more walking machines in a second orthogonal direction allows the load to be moved and steered in a simple steering mode.

Referring to orienting first diagonally opposite walking machines in a first direction and orienting second diagonally opposite walking machines in a second direction allows the load to be moved and steered in a spin steering mode.

Referring to orienting the walking machines and in a direction perpendicular to the orientation of the support feet allows the load to be moved in a vertical or perpendicular direction relative to the orientation of the support feet.

These and other steering modes may be possible in part because each of the walking machines include rotation pins that allows them to be oriented in different directions from the orientation of the support feet . This can be useful for example where the support feet have a length dimension greater than the distance between support beam elements of the load bearing frame. That is the support feet themselves could not be rotated to a desired direction of travel because they would contact the support frame beams when trying to rotate them to a direction of travel.

The walking apparatuses can use a variety of ways to have the roller track moved relative to the support foot in order to steer the movement of a load. In some embodiments an operator can manually move the roller track relative to the support foot to perform a steering movement. However because of the size and weights involved with a typical application some embodiments of the walking apparatus utilize a propulsion device that is configured to move the roller track relative to the support foot.

In other embodiments the roller track may not be substantially circular and may be rotated or moved in other ways. The above embodiments merely provide exemplary variations in constructing a walking device according to the concepts of this invention.

In addition to being able to steer a load using the walking devices use of pin connector can allow the orientation of a support foot to be maintained at a desired orientation during a movement cycle. Below are a few of the many example ways that the foot can be maintained in a desired orientation.

In another example embodiment a method of steering a load transporting device connected to a load bearing frame supporting a load is provided. Here the load transporting device includes a lift mechanism structured to lift the load bearing frame a roller assembly coupled to the lift mechanism and configured to move over a roller track in a first direction by being manipulated by a travel mechanism and a support foot connected to the roller track with a pin connector. The method includes activating the lift mechanism to raise the support foot off of the ground surface determining a direction of travel of the load and rotating the roller track relative to the support foot where the roller track rotated to align the first direction with the direction of travel. Afterwards the method includes locking the position of the roller track relative to the support foot activating the lift mechanism to lower the support foot to the ground surface and raising the load supported by the frame and activating the travel mechanism to displace the roller assembly in the first direction.

Some embodiments of the invention have been described above and in addition some specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of this patent disclosure. Further well known processes have not been described in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Thus while the invention is described in conjunction with the specific embodiments illustrated in the drawings it is not limited to these embodiments or drawings. Rather the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents that come within the scope and spirit of the inventive principles set out herein.

