---

title: Enhancing content mediated engagement
abstract: According to an aspect of the present invention, a content server enhances content mediated engagements, by first enabling a user to specify a content collection containing a set of contents according to a specific/desired sequence, and then storing a data indicating the collection. The set of contents are selected from contents (or portions thereof) maintained in a repository. In response to receiving during a content mediated engagement, a request of the stored content collection, the content server then provides the set of contents according to the specific sequence. The content server also facilitates the same content (maintained in repository) to be included and accordingly provided as part of different content collections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09471615&OS=09471615&RS=09471615
owner: BRANDIFICANT INC.
number: 09471615
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130605
---
The present disclosure relates to content management systems and more specifically to enhancing content mediated interaction and engagement.

Content refers to information that is delivered to end users and which may provide value for such end users. Content may be delivered in any convenient form such as printed material electronic format etc. In the disclosure herein the word content is used to refer to electronically delivered content such as information stored in an electronic form and later displayed using an electronic display device.

Such content and delivery exchange thereof is often the basis for achieving human engagement. For example a sales engagement between a prospective customer and a sales person is typically based on exchange of information content on the parties involved in the engagement on the products or services being offered on the agreements to be signed etc. Similarly a student teacher engagement may be based on exchange of course content. Such an engagement based on delivery exchange of content is commonly referred to as content mediated engagement .

There is a general need to enhance the content mediated engagements in particular to enhance the generation and delivery of content in such engagements.

According to an aspect of the present invention a content server enhances content mediated engagements by first enabling a user to specify a content collection containing a set of contents according to a specific desired sequence and then storing a data indicating the collection. The set of contents are selected from contents or portions thereof maintained in a repository. In response to receiving during a content mediated engagement a request of the stored content collection the content server then provides the set of contents according to the specific sequence. The content server also facilitates the same content maintained in repository to be included and accordingly provided as part of different content collections.

Thus end users are enabled to create and provide different content collections using the standard set of contents maintained in a common repository. The standard set of content may be developed by content developers different from the end users thereby ensuring the quality and consistency of the contents delivered during content mediated engagements.

According to another aspect of the present invention a content server facilitates a content developer to control the rights of the end users specifying the content collections . Thus in response to an indication from the content developer that a standard content cannot be modified by a specific user the content server ensures that only the standard content is provided when the specific user includes the content in a content collection. Alternatively for example in the absence of such an indication the content server enables the specific user to modify the standard content for example to select desired pages from all the pages of the standard content to form a modified content as part of the content collection. The content server then provides only the modified content selected pages in response to a request for the content collection.

In one embodiment the content server noted above provides a requested content collection as one or more of a sending a link to the content collection such that a set of contents specified as part the content collection is displayed in response to a user selecting the sent link b sending the content collection according to a pre defined format and a player capable of playing the pre defined format such that the set of contents is displayed when a user views the content collection using the player and c sending the set of contents forming the content collection as a single document in a format that can be viewed on a device used by a user.

According to one more aspect of the present invention the end users requesting the content collections are enabled to provide corresponding feedback on the requested content collection in particular on each of the contents included in the requested content collection. A content server upon receiving such feedback from different users stores the received feedback associated with the individual contents in a repository. The content server then provides the stored feedback to content developers thereby enabling the content developers to assess the quality of each of the contents in enhancing content mediated engagements.

According to yet another aspect of the present invention a content server enables a user specifying a content collection to also specify sub sequences of the sequence of contents in the content collection. Each sub sequence represents a subset of content that are to be provided to the end users before provided contents corresponding to another for example next or previous sub sequence specified in the sequence. The content server then ensures that the corresponding subset of contents of a sub sequence is provided before providing contents of another sub sequence. The content server also facilitates the user to specify a first set of navigation links for navigating among the contents of a sub sequence and a second set of navigation links for navigating among the various sub sequences specified in the sequence. Furthermore the content server also enable the user to specify a first transition effect between a pair of contents in a sub sequence and a second transition effect between a pair of sub sequences.

According to an aspect of the present invention a content server provides to the end users the sub sequence and the contents corresponding to each sub sequence as two different dimensions of a multi dimensional display. The first set of navigation links are displayed along a first dimension corresponding to the contents of each sub sequence while the second set of navigation links are displayed along a second dimension corresponding to the different sub sequences. The content server also provides the first transition effect when transitioning from one of the pair of contents to the other of the pair of contents according to said first sequence and the second transition effect when transitioning from one of the pair of sub sequences to the other of the pair of sub sequences.

According to another aspect of the present invention a content server receives from a user a first location in a first content and a second content to be associated with the first location and then stores an association between the first location in the first content and the second content in a repository. In response to a request from a user for a content collection containing the first content the content server displays on a display unit the first content and an indication at the first location indicating an association of the first location with another content. Upon the user providing an input indicating that the first location is selected the content server then provides the second content based on the stored association between the first location and the second content.

Several aspects of the invention are described below with reference to examples for illustration. However one skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown in detail to avoid obscuring the features of the invention. Furthermore the features aspects described can be practiced in various combinations though only some of the combinations are described herein for conciseness.

In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

Network provides connectivity between client devices content server developer system and repository . Network may represent Wireless LAN networks implemented using protocols such as Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP or circuit switched network implemented using protocols such as GSM CDMA etc. as is well known in the relevant arts.

In general network provides transport of packets with each packet containing a source address as assigned to the specific system from which the packet originates and a destination address equaling the specific address assigned to the specific system to which a packet is destined targeted. The packets would generally contain the requests and responses between the client devices content server and developer system as described below.

Repository represents a non volatile storage facilitating storage and retrieval of a collection of data by applications executing in client devices or content server . Repository may maintain information such as portions of the content of interest the details of the access rights of the developers end users for each of the portions of the content the type and data corresponding to each content etc. Repository may be implemented using relational database technologies and provide storage and retrieval of data using structured queries such as SQL Structured Query Language as is well known in the relevant arts.

In one embodiment described below repository is implemented as a file server and stores data in the form of one or more files organized in the form of a hierarchy of directories as is well known in the relevant arts. Accordingly the content or portions thereof may be a text visual presentation file according to Microsoft Powerpoint presentation PPT or Adobe Portable Document Format PDF a text visual document file according to Microsoft Word DOC video animation file in various formats such as MPEG MP4 etc. or an audio file in various formats such as WAV MP3 etc. as is well known in the relevant arts.

It may be appreciated that each of the contents or portion thereof stored in repository may be accessed directly by sending appropriate requests over network to repository by one of client devices and developer system . Alternatively a client device developer system may send appropriate requests over network directed to content server the requests indicating the desired contents sought to be accessed. Content server then accesses retrieves the desired contents from repository and then provides the retrieved content as a response to the requesting client device developer system. In such an alternative embodiment client devices developer system are required to perform any modifications to the contents in repository by sending appropriate requests to content server .

Each of client devices and developer system represents a system such as a personal computer workstation mobile phones e.g. iPhone available from Apple Corporation tablets portable devices also referred to as smart devices that operate with a generic operating system such as Android operating system available from Google Corporation etc. used by users to send client requests to content server or to access content directly from repository .

The client requests may be sent by content developers from developer system for creation of new content for editing removing existing portions of content and or for modifying the access rights associated with one of the content of interest stored in repository . Alternatively the client requests may be sent by end users using one of client devices for accessing various portions of content stored in repository . The client requests may be generated using appropriate user interfaces. In general a client device enables a user to send client requests for performing desired tasks to content server and to receive corresponding responses containing the results of performance of the requested tasks.

Content server represents a system such as a web and or application server executing various software applications designed to perform tasks such as creating editing content accessing content etc. requested by users using client devices and developer system . The applications may perform the tasks using data maintained internally e.g. within content server on external data e.g. maintained in repository or on data received along with the request e.g. data provided by the end user developer . Content server may then send the results of performance of the tasks as corresponding responses to the requesting client device or developer system .

It may be appreciated that some of the systems of may be used during content mediated engagements for delivery exchange of content as described below with examples.

In a sales engagement sales persons using client devices may engage prospective customers through a series of meetings and exchange of content. Though the products offerings from the business entity may be same for all customers the sales pitch used for each prospective customer is generally unique. Accordingly the end user sales person typically customizes and or adds new information to the content in the form of various documents files maintained separately available from the business entity based on the prospective customer sought to be engaged.

However there are several drawbacks with the above noted approach. For example the business entity offering the products services may wish to ensure that each of the prospective customers is receiving standard content authored by developers and not the end users sales person. In addition the end users sales persons may still be enabled to create unique customer specific sales pitches while keeping the integrity of the standard content.

Furthermore the business entity may wish to track the status of the engagement in particular the impact of the content provided on the outcome of the engagement. Some prior systems such as a CRM Customer Relationship Management system may help in tracking engagements to some degree for example knowing the dates of meeting with the customer or capturing general comments not specific to the contents provided from the customer. However a business entity may wish to track all the contents that were distributed to customers the feedback from the customers on the provided specific contents the overall status of the various engagements and co relate the contents distributed with the feedback status.

In a student teacher engagement the content provided is commonly specific to a class or subject and is rarely specific to the requirements of the student. While such content may be sufficient for class oriented environment this is insufficient for targeted teaching home tutoring or online tutoring or small group coaching or students with disability etc. context where it may be necessary for the teacher to provide content targeted to the students or groups using client devices . The teacher may also wish to track such targeted engagements.

In a doctor patient engagement a doctor may wish to provide content using one of client devices on a disease that a patient may be suffering from on a medicine or surgical process that may be involved in the treating the disease so as to provide guidance to the patient. Such content may need to be provided specific to each patient as different patients may be suffering the same disease at different levels. The doctor may also wish to track the effectiveness of the content provided during such engagements.

Content server provided extended according to several aspects of the present invention enhances content mediated engagements while overcoming at least some of the drawbacks noted above. The manner in which content server enhances content mediated engagements is described below with examples.

In addition some of the steps may be performed in a different sequence than that depicted below as suited in the specific environment as will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts. Many of such implementations are contemplated to be covered by several aspects of the present invention.

In step content server maintains in repository e.g. contents that can be used in content mediated engagements. The contents may be maintained in the form of one or more documents files in the scenario that the repository is implemented as a file server. The contents may be received from a developer using developer system and then stored in the repository in response to such receiving. By having a repository of contents content developers are enabled to provide standard content that are to be used by end users.

In step content server enables end users such as sales persons using client devices to specify content collections containing corresponding sets of contents according to desired sequences. Each content collection contains one or more contents from repository either in the standard form or modified by the user arranged according to a user specified sequences. The manner in which an end user creates a new content collection is described below with respect to .

In step content server stores data indicating the user specified content collections in a non volatile storage such as repository . The data may indicate the specific contents specified by the user in addition to preferences such as sub sequences transitions location associations etc. described in detail below specified by the user for each content collection. The data may be stored in any convenient format such as according to extended markup language XML .

In step content server receives a request for a content collection. The request may be received from the same user who specified the collection or another user using one of client devices . The request may indicate an identifier name of the content collection as stored in repository .

In step content server provides the contents specified for the requested content collection as a response to the request. The contents are provided according to the user specified sequence and other preferences stored in step . The standard contents provided by content developers and stored in repository may be provided as such in response to the request.

The contents may be provided to the requesting user in a known way. For example a link such as a Universal Resource Locator URL to the requested content collection may be provided as a response to the end user. The specific contents forming the content collection may then be displayed on a display unit associated with the requesting client device in response to the end user selecting the link. In another embodiment the requested content collection is sent in a pre defined format along with a player capable of displaying the collection in the pre defined format. In yet another embodiment the content may be sent as a single document file in a format that can be viewed directly on a device used by the end user.

Thus by providing the users a repository of contents from which to create share and view desired content collections content server enhances the content mediated engagements such as those noted above. Content server may also receive feedbacks from the end users or customers on the provided contents and store such feedback in repository . The feedbacks may be later used by content developers to assess the quality of the previously specified content collections and to refine modify the contents maintained in repository based on such assessment.

It may be appreciated that content collections may be specified once by the end users and later modified by other users according to the requirements of the engagement for example the sales pitch specific to the potential customer as noted above . The manner in which content server enables an end user to create a new and to modify an existing content collection is described below with examples.

In addition some of the steps may be performed in a different sequence than that depicted below as suited in the specific environment as will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts. Many of such implementations are contemplated to be covered by several aspects of the present invention.

In step content server facilitates an end user in response to requests received to select and edit desired contents from repository . As noted above the contents stored in repository may be standard contents provided by content developers using developer systems . The selected contents may be edited by the end user before inclusion in the content collection. For example in a scenario that a content is a document containing multiple pages the end user may select only a desired subset of the pages to be included as content in the content collection.

In step content server facilitates an end user to organize the selected contents as one or more sequences. In general the end user specifies an overall top level sequence for all the contents the top level sequence indicating the order in which the selected contents included in the content collection are to be provided to the end users as in step . The end user may also specify one or more sub sequences contained in the top level sequence each sub sequence indicating that a corresponding subset of contents in the collection is to be provided before providing the contents corresponding to any other for example the next or the previous sub sequence.

In step content server facilitates an end user to specify transitions effects between the included contents and sequences. The transition effects may be specified for each pair of contents according to the top level sequence or for any two pairs of sub sequences specified by the end user in step . Examples of transition effects are blinds horizontal blinds vertical box in box out checkerboard across checkerboard down comb horizontal comb vertical etc. as is well known in the arts.

In step content server facilitates an end user to create associations between locations in a selected content with other contents in the collection. For example the end user may indicate that a second content is to be provided displayed to the requesting end user in response to the end user selecting a specific location in a first content. Content server may accordingly store such associations as part of the content collection.

Thus content server facilitates end users using one of client devices to create and store desired content collections. It may be appreciated that the above noted steps may be appropriately performed for modification of an existing content collection as well. The stored content collections may then be provided in response to requests for the collections as described below with examples.

The features of the present invention are described below with respect to a sales engagement and correspondingly sales persons are assumed to be the end users accessing the content collections for illustration. However various features of the present invention can be implemented in the content of other content mediated engagements such as student teacher engagement and doctor patient engagement noted above as well as will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts by reading the disclosure herein.

Broadly illustrates the manner in which an end user is facilitated to manage various contents while illustrate the manner in which a en user is enabled to create a new content collection. illustrates the manner in which a newly created content collection is maintained in repository . illustrates the manner in which an end user such as a sales person is provided contents of a previously specified content collection during an content mediated engagement. illustrates the manner in which feedback on a content collection is processed. Each of the Figures is described in detail below.

Broadly an end user manages various desired contents in the form of one or more briefcases . The various briefcases themselves may be organized in the form of a hierarchy such that a briefcase at a higher level in the hierarchy contains one or more briefcases at a lower level in the hierarchy. Only the relevant hierarchy of briefcases that is assessable for which access rights have been provided to the end user may be displayed.

Thus display area depicts a hierarchy of briefcases that is accessible to the end user named Admin as shown in display area . The end user may use the various buttons shown in display area and then the corresponding user interface provided to add a new briefcase to edit an existing briefcase or to delete an existing briefcase. The end user may select the side arrows shown in display area to view the briefcases at the lower levels in the hierarchy. The end user may also select one of the briefcases shown in display area to view the details. Display area indicates that the end user has selected and is currently viewing the details of the briefcase named Car Sales Pitch 2012 hereafter referred to as the car sales briefcase .

Display area Media indicates the various contents or portions thereof that are available in repository . It may be observed that the contents are of different types such as images indicated as IMG links to external contents URL documents PPT PDF etc. The end user or a content developer may add upload additional content to repository by using the buttons and corresponding user interfaces shown in display area .

Each briefcase may include one or more stories a story representing a content collection specified by an end user. Thus display area Stories indicates the various content collections that are part of the car sales briefcase. Each story is associated with a unique identifier such as Brain Client1 and My Story which enables the end user or other users to access the desired story content collection by specifying the associated identifier. Button enables the end user to add a new story that is create a new content collection as described in below sections.

Display area Users enable the end user to control access to the various information shown in display area . In particular the end user is enabled to assign to different users corresponding rights for accessing the contents stories and or briefcases shown in display area . The access rights may indicate whether a user is allowed to add modify delete and or access the specific ones of the contents stories and briefcases.

Thus an end user is enabled to manage the various contents that are related to and which can be used in content mediated engagements. As noted above the end user is also facilitated to create new stories content collections. An example user interface that may enable an end user to create a new story content collection is described below with examples.

Display area of enables an end user to create a new content collection story as part of a briefcase herein the car sales briefcase as indicated by display area . Broadly an end user includes desired contents or portions thereof as various pages of the new story. The pages may then be organized as chapters each chapter containing a sub sequence of pages that are to be provided to a requesting user before the pages of another sub sequence. Thus each story may contain one or more chapters with each chapter containing in turn one or more pages contents as desired by the end user.

Referring to display area depicts a story that is being created by an end user. The end user has created three chapters respectively named as Images containing images of the car for which the sales pitch is being prepared Details containing details of the car and Accessories containing information on the accessories of the car . Each chapter is shown containing a sub sequence of pages contents. For example chapter is shown containing two image contents in the vertical direction with one of them indicated to be page while chapter is shown containing three pages of different types and chapter is shown containing only a single page .

It may be observed that the chapters sub sequences are shown along a first horizontal direction dimension while the pages contents of each chapter sub sequence are shown along a second vertical direction dimension. Accordingly display area may be viewed as organized as a two dimensional matrix of chapters and pages. However in alternative embodiments the chapters and pages may be displayed along alternate dimensions for example chapters along the vertical dimension and pages along the horizontal dimension. Furthermore only a few sample numbers of pages chapters are shown in display area for illustration. In actual scenarios the numbers may be in the order of few hundreds with the user being provided the ability to scroll in the horizontal and vertical direction to view edit the pages.

It may also be appreciated that the contents may be organized in more than two dimensions that is as a multi dimensional matrix. For example the chapters themselves may be organized as sections each section containing one or more chapters and accordingly a matrix with the sections along a first depth dimension chapters along a second horizontal dimension and pages along a third vertical dimensions may be displayed to the end user. The features of the present invention may be implemented for any such multi dimensional organization as well as will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts by reading the disclosure herein.

An aspect of the present invention facilitates the end user to specify navigation links among for navigating among the pages contents of a chapter sub sequence and also links for navigating among the different chapters sub sequences. Another aspect of the present invention facilitates the end user to specify the transition effects between pairs of pages contents in a chapter sub sequence and or between pairs of chapters sub sequences. Examples of transition effects as noted above are blinds horizontal blinds vertical box in box out checkerboard across checkerboard down comb horizontal comb vertical etc. as is well known in the arts.

In one embodiment shown in the navigation links and transition effects are provided together with each navigation link being associated with a corresponding transition effect. Each of links depicts a corresponding status of a navigation link effect between pairs of contents. In particular link represents a navigation link and corresponding effect specified between pages contents of a chapter while link represents a navigations link and corresponding effect specified between two chapters. Link indicates that there is no link effect specified between the corresponding pages since the user has specified only one page .

Link icon illustrates the manner in which an end user may specify the link effect between two pages. The end user upon clicking on an unspecified link similar to may be displayed multiple options for the transition effects as shown in link . A user may then select the desired option transition effect thereby specifying the effect between the two pages chapters. It should be noted that the specification of the transition effect between two pages chapters also indicates the specification of the navigation link between the corresponding two pages chapters. Thus a user by using the various links shown in is enabled to specify the desired navigation links transition effects between the contents in the new content collection being created.

It may be appreciated that the links effects between the chapters sub sequence enforces an order in which each chapter is to be displayed while the links effects between sequence of pages in each chapter enforces and order in which each page within a sequence is to be displayed. As such the combination of chapters and the sequences within each chapter may be viewed as enforcing a collection first sequence on the list of all the contents pages in the content collection story. Content server may ensure that the collection sequence is enforced when providing the contents to an end user requesting the story content collection.

Each of pages represents a page content added sought to be added to the story. In particular page icon enables an end user to add a new page content to a chapter here while page icon enable the end user to add a new page and a new chapter to the story. Page depicts an image content that is added to chapter while page represents a new page that has been added by the end user to chapter . The manner in which an end user adds a new page content to the story is described below with examples.

Referring to display area there depicts a portion of a user interface that enables a user to specify the identifier and style of a new page content. It may be appreciated that a new chapter icon similar to may be displayed in place of in display area of with the user then selecting such a new chapter page icon. The user interface of may then be displayed in response to the end user selecting the new chapter page icon at the location of page

Display area enables the user to specify an identifier for the chapter and the page corresponding to the content sought to be added. Display area enables the user to select the manner style of presentation of the content in the new page. In particular display area is shown displaying different layouts named as Style A Style B etc. with each layout specifying the manner in which contents are to be displayed. The user is shown selecting as indicated by the dotted rectangle layout named Style B from the layouts shown in display area

Referring to display area there depicts a user interface that enables a user to assemble desired contents according to a layout in this example Style B . Display area of may be displayed in response to the user selecting layout in . Thus display area indicates that the page entitled Chapter 3 Page 1 is being created assembled from other contents. Button enables the user to scroll to the first page in the next chapter while button enables the user to scroll to the next page in the same chapter . Buttons may not be displayed if such a first page of the next chapter or a next page in the same chapter is not present for example not yet specified by the end user .

Display area enables a user to select the desired portions of content to be included in the new page sought to be created. In display area is shown displaying the contents and content collections from different briefcases. This enables the end user to select and incorporate portions of the content content collections from other briefcases into the new page. Though not shown it may be appreciated that display area may provide any relevant content portions tools necessary for the end user to add desired content to the new page. For example in the scenario that the end user wishes to add text to the page tools such as for adding text changing the font of the text changing the size color style of the text etc. may be provided in display area

It may be appreciated that the same content may be included as part of pages belonging to different content collections. Thus a content developer can provide a standard content that can then be incorporated by different end users at different portions of respective content collections. By facilitating a common base content to be reused the standardization of the common content may be effected thereby ensuring that all customers of the business entity are provided the same or very similar contents. Furthermore such reuse facilitates the building of a repository of standard contents and reduces the time and resources required for creating new content collections.

It may be further appreciated that the manner of addition of content portions to the new page may be controlled by a content developer providing such content portions. For example a content developer may provide a standard content and also an indication indicating that the standard content cannot be modified by the current end user creating the page. In response to such an indication content server may allow the end user to merely add the standard content as a whole to the new page and or the new content collection . Any editing modification of the standard content may be prevented by not providing edit modify buttons in display area

In a scenario that such an indication is not provided by a content developer the end user is enabled to modify the standard content for example to change some of the text images present in the standard content to form a modified content and include the modified content as part of the page chapter story. Different end users may modify the standard content to corresponding desired modified contents and include such modified contents in respective content collections.

In one embodiment the standard content is in the form of a document such as a PDF or DOC file containing multiple pages. Each end user may then modify such a document by specifying a mask indicating the specified ones of the pages of the document that is to be included or excluded from the new content . Content server includes only the pages in the new content based on the specified mask.

A user by using the interfaces of may create and add the desired new pages contents as part of the new story content collection sought to be created. An aspect of the present invention facilitates an end user to associate desired contents with visual locations in another content displayed to a requesting user . Such locations in a first content associated with corresponding secondary contents are hereafter referred to as hotspots and the manner in which an end user is facilitated to specify such hotspots is described below with examples.

Each of hotspots represents a location associated with a corresponding image as specified by the end user using the tools shown in display area . It may be observed that each of hotspots has a corresponding location on the image. Each hotspot is also associated with a corresponding content such as another image text link to an external content using appropriate user interface not shown in .

It may be appreciated that the hotspots are shown in as being specified with respect to an image content of page . However in alternative embodiments such hotspots may be associated with the locations in any type of content such as text audio or video content for example with different time instances during playback of a video as will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts by reading the disclosure herein.

After adding the desired chapters pages and hotspots as part of new content shown in the end user may select a Save option button not shown in to add the new content collection to the display interface of . In one embodiment the Save option button is provided in display area of . Alternatively the user may be provide the Save option when the user clicks on the back arrow shown before the briefcase name in display area of indicating that the user wishes to go back to the display interface of . For illustration the description is continued assuming that the new content collection story has been saved as Customer1 in the briefcase named Car Sales Pitch 2012 under the hierarchy Clients Sales Automotive . The newly saved story is shown as story in display area of .

Thus a user is enabled to create any desired story content collection using the user interfaces shown in . After a user creates a new story content collection content server may receive for example in response to the user selecting the Save option button and store in repository data indicating the newly created content collection. The manner in which content server may store data indicating a content collection is described below with examples.

For illustration the data representing the content collection is shown as being maintained in repository according to JSON JavaScript Object Notation format well known in the arts. However in alternative embodiments the content collection may be represent using other formats such as XML and or other data structures such as tables in a database as will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts by reading the disclosure herein.

Referring to each of data portions and specifies the details of corresponding chapters in the content collection. The chapters are respectively named Images and Details as indicated by data portions and . Data portions and may be stored by content server in repository in response to the user specifying and content server receiving chapters and of . The details of other chapters not shown may be similarly stored in repository .

Each of data portions and specifies the details of corresponding pages in the content collection. In particular each data portion such as specifies the media content type jpg the media file name 1.1 Front View.jpg and a media identifier 7792 uniquely identifying the media content. Similarly other data portions specify the detail of corresponding pages. It may be observed that data portions and are shown as being part of data portion indicating that the corresponding pages are part of the chapter Images . Similarly the pages corresponding data portions and are shown as being part of the chapter Details due the data portions shown within data portion .

Data portion indicates that an end user has specified one or more hotspots associated with one of the pages contents in the corresponding chapter here named Images . A client device providing the content collection to an end user is designed to request content server in response to data portion being present in the data. For example the client device may send a request URL such as http test.acme.com hotspotData mediaID 7821 where 7821 represents the unique identifier associated with the hotspot as shown in data portion to content server for retrieving the data corresponding to the hotspots. Content server upon receiving such a request then retrieves the details of the hotspots associated with the pages contents and sends the retrieved details as a response to the request. The manner in which details of the hotspots may be maintained in repository is described in detail below.

Referring to data portion indicates that the hotspots details are for the media hotspot identifier 7821 that is for the pages of chapter Images as indicated by data portions being within data portion . Data portion specifies the location x and y coordinates and the size 1 of the pop up window for a first hotspot indicated by the index 1 . The locations and sizes of the pop up window for the other hotspots may similarly be specified by using an appropriate index such as 2 3 etc.

Data portion indicates the media identifier of the background media on which the hotspots are to be displayed and also the content associated with each hotspot in the attribute mediaList . The background media id 7794 corresponds to the media page shown in data portion indicating that the hotspots are to be displayed in association with the page 1.2 Perspective Small.jpg . The media list in data portion indicates for each hotspot index the corresponding media identifier on the left hand side and the corresponding name and type of the media page on the left hand side associated with the corresponding location.

For example the data portion 7796 1.3 Interiors.jpg jpg associated with hotspot index 1 in data portion indicates that a second media content having the identifier 7796 named 1.3 Interiors.jpg of the type jpg is associated with the location having the x co ordinate 876 and y coordinate 570 as indicated by data portion for hotspot index 1 in a first media content named 1.2 Perspective Small.jpg . Similarly the locations of other hotspots and corresponding associated contents may be specified and stored in repository .

Thus content server in response to an end user specifying the details of a content collection using the user interfaces of receives from client device data similar to that shown in indicating the details of the content collection and then stores the received data in repository .

It may be appreciated that such content collections may then be accessed by end users during content mediated engagements. For example a sales person another end user engaging a prospective customer for purchase of the car may wish to access the content collection shown in and to provide such a content collection to the customer using one of client devices . The manner in which such an end user may access the desired content collection is described below with examples.

Referring to display area depicts a portion of a user interface provided on a display unit not shown in associated with a client device assumed to be for illustrations used by the end user sales person. Display area similar to display area may be provided by content server for example in the form or web pages in response to an end user sending appropriate requests using client device . In an alternate embodiment display area may be provided by an application such as a mobile app executing in client device with the application designed to interface with content server for providing various features of the present invention.

Display area of indicates the specific briefcase currently accessed by the end user. The Home icon indicates that the end user is currently at the root of the hierarchy of the briefcases. Display area also provides various buttons shown on the right side that enables the end user to refresh the display to share the content on social networking sites and to close the application browser.

Display area of shows the briefcases that are available for which the user has rights to the end user. Such availability may be determined based on the identification of the end user for example by requiring the end user to provide a user name and password and or the identification of the client device for example an identifier of the hardware of the device . Display area is shown displaying the briefcases named Clients Pharma and Internal at the root of the hierarchy consistent with the Home icon indication in display area .

An end user sales person may select a desired briefcase such as to be opened with display area then being populated with the briefcases at the next lower level in the hierarchy to the selected briefcase. The end user may similarly select the desired briefcases at the different levels and navigate to the specific lowest level briefcase that does not in turn contain other briefcases sought to be opened. The description is continued assuming that the end user has navigated to the lowest level briefcase named Car Sales Pitch 2012 under the hierarchy Clients Sales Automotive .

Referring to display area there is shown to indicate that the current briefcase being accessed by the end user is Clients Sales Automotive Car Sales Pitch 2012 based on the end user selecting the corresponding briefcases in display area of . Display area of is shown displaying the contents of the selected briefcase Car Sales Pitch 2012 since the selected briefcase is at the lowest level in the hierarchy.

Display area shows the various stories content collections included in the selected briefcase including story named Customer1 that was created using the interfaces of . Display area shows the media contents that form part of the various stories in the selected briefcase. The media pages contents are shown being downloaded either by sending appropriate requests to content server or directly from repository . The hourglass icons in media content and indicate that these contents are being currently downloaded. The contents whose downloading is completed are shown identified by their names such as Features and Perspective . Such downloading of the content may facilitates the content collections to be viewed off line without requiring connection to network on client device

An end user sales person may then select one of the stories collections such as story shown in display area . In response to the selection client device may provide display the details of the selected story while continuing to download pages contents in the background. Alternatively client device may prioritize the contents of the selected story for downloading wait for all the contents to be downloaded and then display the contents of the selected story. The manner in which client device may provide the contents of a selected content collection is described below with examples.

In the following description the contents of a content collection are assumed to be visual for convenience and accordingly providing of the contents on a client device is equated to displaying of the contents visually on a display unit associated with the client device . However it may be appreciated that a content collection may include other types of contents such as audio video text etc. and such contents may be appropriately provided as will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant arts. For example audio content or the audio portion of a view content may be played back on speakers associated with the client device audio content may be displayed in the form of text textual content may be read out in the form of an audio video contents may be displayed in the form of images etc. and such provisioning are also contemplated to be covered by several aspects of the present invention.

Referring to display area is shown displaying the chapters pages included in the end user selected story named Customer1 in the end user selected briefcase named Car Sales Pitch 2012 . It may be observed that the chapters and pages shown in display area are similar to the chapters and pages specified by another end user using the user interfaces of . The details of the selected content collection may be provided in any convenient manner.

For example content server in response to end user sales person selecting a content collection may send a link in the form of a URL to the selected content collection with the contents of the selected content collection being displayed in response to the end user sales person selecting the link. Alternatively content server may send to client device the selected content collection according to a pre defined format and a player capable of playing the pre defined format. The contents of the selected content collection is displayed when the end user sales person views the provided data according to the pre defined format using the provide player. In another approach content server may send the contents a single document that can be viewed using client device by the end user sales person. In other words the single document is according to a common format such as a PDF document video file presentation file etc. that is readily understood without requiring additional software such as the player by client device

In one embodiment an application executing in client device sends a request to content server for the details of the content collection Customer1 in response to the end user sales person selecting story in display area of . In response to receiving such a request content server inspects repository to identify the data corresponding to the requested story Customer1 . Content server accordingly identifies and retrieves the data shown in and then forwards the retrieved data to the application.

The application in response to receiving the data of generates the interface of display area based on the received data. For example the application may identify the data portions and corresponding to the chapters and then display the names of the chapters data portions and in the horizontal direction. The application may also identify data portions and and accordingly display pages with the appropriate icons corresponding to the identified data portions under the respective chapter. Thus display area is generated based on the data maintained in repository for the selected story content collection Customer1 .

An aspect of the present invention displays the pages of the selected story according to the collection sequence and also the sub sequences specified by the creator of the story content collection. As such client device displays each of the pages contents according to the collection sequence while ensuring that the pages contents of a sub sequence for example Images are all displayed before the pages content of another sub sequence such as Details . Thus the end user sales person and thereby the prospective customer is provided a coherent consistent story on the car sought to be purchased.

An end user sales person may also select any of the pages displayed in display area and view the contents of the selected page. The description is continued assuming that the end user is currently viewing page corresponding to page of either as part of the display of the sequence or by selecting the page.

Referring to display area there is shown displaying the content page corresponding to page named Perspective . Before displaying the page the application inspects the data of received from content server to determine whether the page content to be displayed includes any hotspots. Accordingly the application identifies data portion in and then requests content server for the hotspots data by send a request URL such as http testacme.com hotspotData mediaID 7821 as noted in detail above .

In response to receiving the data of the application identifies based on data portions and that the media content 7796 named 1.3 Interiors.jpg of the type jpg is associated with the location having the x co ordinate 876 and y coordinate 570 as indicated by data portion for hotspot index 1 in the media content named 1.2 Perspective Small.jpg . Similarly the locations of other hotspots such as shown in and corresponding associated contents may be identified by the application. The application may then download the associated contents from repository or via content server .

The application then displays indications markers for the identified hotspots at the specified locations on the displayed content 1.2 Perspective Small.jpg . Upon an end user sales person selecting one of the hotspots here the application displays after downloading the corresponding associated content as a pop up window . It should be noted that the selection of the hotspot may be identified based on different types of inputs in any convenient manner. For example hotspot may be identified to be selected if the user uses a mouse like device and clicks on the marker shown at the hotspot if the user uses the mouse like device and hovers the cursor over the marker for a pre defined time e.g. 5 seconds if the user presses a specific combination of keys on a keyboard device if the user swipes his her finger across the marker in a touch enabled client device etc. or a combination of two or more inputs noted above.

Thus an end user sales person is enabled to use a client device to access the desired content collections with content server in combination with an application executing on the client device then providing the access content collection on the client device. It may be appreciated that the end users customers accessing a content collection may wish to provide feedback on the contents pages of the content collection. The manner in which an end user may be facilitated to provide feedback on contents is described below with examples.

According to an aspect of the present invention content server is designed to receive from multiple end users sales persons corresponding feedbacks on a content collection or portions thereof and then store the received feedbacks in repository . The feedback may be received in the form of text or as audio. Content server may then provide such stored feedback in response to an end user such as a content developer using developer system or another user who created the content collection using one of client device requesting such feedback. Accordingly the end user is enabled to assess the quality of the content collection or portions thereof in enhancing content mediated engagements.

Referring to display area there is shown displaying the content page corresponding to page named Perspective similar to display area of . However the hotspots markers that are shown displayed in are not shown in for convenience.

Display area depicts a menu of options provided to the end user for providing feedback on the content in the displayed page . The menu may be provided in response to a user selecting touching a specific portion such as the upper left hand corner of the display. Alternatively a button may be provided in display area of which upon selection by the end user causes display area to be displayed. The menu is shown providing various option to the end user including a screen shot option to capture the screen details as an image a description option to view any description associated with the content a drop notes option to add a new note feedback to the displayed content a hide notes option to hide any notes previously added and a list all notes option to view all the noted previously added. The description is continued assuming that the end user selects option

Referring to display area represents a pop up window that may be displayed in response to the end user selecting option in . Display area is shown providing a text area in which a user may provide any desirable feedback such as the text Sports convertible shown there and a Save button for sending the provided feedback to content server which in turn stores the provided feedback in repository . As noted above the feedback may be in the form of text or audio based on the end user providing the feedback using a microphone . The feedback in the form of the text may be specified by the end user using a physical keyboard device not shown associated with client device and or using a virtual keyboard such as shown in . Virtual keyboard may be provided by an operating system installed in the client device as is well known in the relevant arts.

As noted above content server receives such feedback from different end users and then stores the feedback in repository for example in the JSON format noted above . The feedback may be stored associated with the story and or page where the feedback was provided by the different users. In the above example the feedback Sports convertible may be stored associated with the story Customer1 and or page Perspective in the chapter Images . The stored feedback may then be provided to content developers or creators of the content collections as described in detail below.

Referring to display area represents a portion of a user interface similar to display area of . Display area may be displayed in response to an end user such as a content developer using developer system or another user who created the content collection using one of client device selecting the corresponding media icon in display area or story icon in display area of . The description is continued assuming that display area is shown in response to the user selecting media in display area of .

Display area of is accordingly shown indicating the name Perspective of the media selected by the end user in the user interface of . Display area is shown providing the notes feedback received from different users for the selected media content. The feedback is shown in the form of a table having the columns Notes indicating the text or a link to an audio file of each feedback received from the end users Commented By indicating the name identifier of the end user from whom the feedback was received and Posted On indicting the date and time of providing the feedback. Each of the feedbacks is shown as a corresponding row in the table. For example row corresponds to the feedback provided by the end user named Scott using the interface of .

An end user by perusing the notes in display area in enabled to assess the quality of the content collection or portions thereof in enhancing content mediated engagements. The end users may then decide to modify such contents or content collections if the feedbacks notes indicate any draw backs short comings with the currently provided contents or content collections.

Thus content server in association with client devices and by providing several aspects of the present invention enhances content mediated engagements. The manner in which content server may be implemented to provide various aspects of the invention is described below with examples.

Core content creation block facilitates content developers using developer system to create interactive content using pre existing documents content portion such as documents of the formats PPT PDF DOC MP3 MPEG etc. as noted above . Block may accordingly provide web pages based user interface to facilitate content developers to bind several such documents and or media files into one single Custom Media file. The creators of content collections may later choose from such custom media files as well.

Metadata processor block extracts the metadata associated with each of the content media either the standard media files noted above or developer created custom media . For standard media files block captures information pertaining to the creation update and deletion time media type e.g. image video and audio and media format e.g. MP3 MP4 FLV PNG JPG . For custom media block captures extracts the creation update and deletion time custom media type list of standard media content used in custom media creation and the structure in which the standard media have been put to create the custom media.

Office tools invocation block facilitates processing of content created using Microsoft Office hereafter referred to as Office available from Microsoft Corporation. Office content processing block facilitates rendering providing of Office documents in client devices whose operating systems for example iOS operating system available from Apple Corporation do not natively support such rendering. Block attempts to overcome this limitation by extracting useful information from Office documents for improved rendering of those documents on such client devices.

Content organization block facilitates users to organize the content in the form of briefcases as described above with respect to . Such a storage structure is entirely virtualized i.e. the files document are not actually stored in manner specified by the end user. Instead the user specified hierarchy is mapped to underlying storage structures for example each briefcase to a folder in a Windows operating system to create the illusion of such a structure. Such a mapping helps maintain a uniform storage structure independent of the storage repository that is being used for storing the content. Content versioning block provides for editing the uploaded media content and also tracks the various versions created by such editing of content. Block may provide a strong versioning system through integration with SVN Subversion repositories.

Sales pitch creation block facilitates content end users using client devices to create content collections stories using pre existing standard custom media provided by content developers. Block facilitates the end users to create engaging sales presentations using the story feature noted above. Metadata processor block extracts the information related to the positional relationship and transitions that exist between the various contents chapters and pages in each story content collection.

Office content embedding block determines the manner in which contents of a story are sent to the client devices. As noted above the content may be embedded in a single file representing a story and then sent to the client devices. While embedding contents to the story documents can be picked from amongst the media that are available on repository or any other media that may be already present in a local non volatile storage such as a hard disk within the client device.

Embedded content editing block performs additional editing on the uploaded by content developers content to optimize viewing on the presentation client device. Some examples of such editing are extracting PowerPoint slides resizing images etc. Content visualization block facilitates display of the content on client devices in the same relative layout as is configured for a web page based display of content. Block also enhances the visualizations by using animations etc. based on the capability of the client device.

Sales pitch versioning block facilitates end users to edit existing stories content collections for example by providing a web page based interface . The editing can be performed in terms of changing the relative positions of media or including or excluding media contents in the sales pitch story. Block also provides the feature of saving an incomplete Story while still not publishing it to the end user such as a sales person . Accordingly the incomplete story content collection may be completed in chunks portions.

Content repository block enables content server to access one or more types of repositories such as cloud based storage services such as Dropbox Box.net Amazon S3 etc. Alternatively block also facilitates access to local storages such as database file servers similar to repository located within the premises or managed by the business entity.

Sales engagement block facilitates end users sales persons using client devices to access view the content collections available on repository . The content collection story may be presented in manual mode where the user selects from an interface such as that shown in display area and auto play modes where the pages chapters are provided according to the collection sequence . Block also allows the end user to show an overview of the story as shown in display area . The end user may also override the order of the contents shown in auto play mode by switching to the manual mode.

Content exchange tracking block keeps record of tracks the shared stories and enables a time bound access to content within a story. Content efficacy analysis block keeps detailed tracking of story analytics and integration with sales tools like Salesforce . Such captured analytics may be related to usage patterns of media contents within a sales pitch story usage frequency of a media in a story average time spent on presenting a media in a story most traversed presentation route in a story etc.

Core platform functions block facilitates communications between client devices and other blocks noted above of content server . Such communication to the server blocks uses REST Representational State Transfer web services over HTTP protocol for fetching metadata. The server sends data in JSON format to the client devices as noted above. Block may also generate session based URLs to facilitate downloading of media files contents to the client devices. Such session based URLs may help protect data even in the case of a network breach. Block also provides security for the contents. For example each end user may be required to authenticate oneself using previously provided login names and passwords. File security may be maintained on content server and client devices by encrypting stored data and decrypting only at runtime when necessary to be displayed .

It should be appreciated that the above noted features can be implemented in various embodiments as a desired combination of one or more of hardware execution modules and firmware. The description is continued with respect to one embodiment in which various features are operative when execution modules are executed.

Digital processing system may contain one or more processors such as a central processing unit CPU random access memory RAM secondary memory graphics controller display unit network interface and input interface . All the components except display unit may communicate with each other over communication path which may contain several buses as is well known in the relevant arts. The components of are described below in further detail.

CPU may execute instructions stored in RAM to provide several features of the present invention. CPU may contain multiple processing units with each processing unit potentially being designed for a specific task. Alternatively CPU may contain only a single general purpose processing unit. RAM may receive instructions from secondary memory using communication path .

Graphics controller generates display signals e.g. in RGB format to display unit based on data instructions received from CPU . Display unit contains a display screen to display the images defined by the display signals e.g. the portions of the user interfaces of . Input interface may correspond to a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. touch pad mouse which enable the various inputs to be provided such as creating of the contents and providing feedback using the user interfaces of .

Network interface provides connectivity to a network e.g. using Internet Protocol and may be used to communicate with other connected systems e.g. client devices content server developer system and repository of . Network interface may provide such connectivity over a wire in the case of TCP IP based communication or wirelessly in the case of WIFI Bluetooth based communication .

Secondary memory may contain hard drive flash memory and removable storage drive . Secondary memory may store the data e.g. the data portions of and software instructions e.g. for implementing the programming logic of which enable digital processing system to provide several features in accordance with the present invention.

Some or all of the data and instructions may be provided on removable storage unit and the data and instructions may be read and provided by removable storage drive to CPU . Floppy drive magnetic tape drive CD ROM drive DVD Drive Flash memory removable memory chip PCMCIA Card EPROM are examples of such removable storage drive

Removable storage unit may be implemented using storage format compatible with removable storage drive such that removable storage drive can read the data and instructions. Thus removable storage unit includes a computer readable storage medium having stored therein computer software in the form of execution modules and or data.

However the computer or machine in general readable storage medium can be in other forms e.g. non removable random access etc. . These computer program products are means for providing execution modules to digital processing system . CPU may retrieve the software instructions forming the execution modules and execute the instructions to provide various features of the present invention described above.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the above description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

It should be understood that the figures and or screen shots illustrated in the attachments highlighting the functionality and advantages of the present invention are presented for example purposes only. The present invention is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be utilized in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

Further the purpose of the following Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The Abstract is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the present invention in any way.

