---

title: Triboelectric nanogenerator for powering portable electronics
abstract: A triboelectric generator includes a first contact charging member and a second contact charging member. The first contact charging member includes a first contact layer and a conductive electrode layer. The first contact layer includes a material that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to gain electrons due to a contacting event. The conductive electrode layer is disposed along the back side of the contact layer. The second contact charging member is spaced apart from and disposed oppositely from the first contact charging member. It includes an electrically conductive material layer that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to lose electrons when contacted by the first contact layer during the contacting event. The electrically conductive material acts as an electrode. A mechanism maintains a space between the first contact charging member and the second contact charging member except when a force is applied thereto.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595894&OS=09595894&RS=09595894
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09595894
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130920
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 704 138 filed Sep. 21 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 754 992 filed Jan. 22 2013 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the Department of Energy and under agreement No. CMMI 0946418 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to electric power generators and more specifically to generators that derive power from mechanical contact between surfaces.

Wireless portable and multi function electronic devices require independent and maintenance free power sources. The emerging technologies for mechanical energy harvesting are effective and promising approaches for building self powered systems because of a great abundance of mechanical energy existing in the environment and the human body. Piezoelectric nanogenerators have been developed to convert tiny scale mechanical energy into electricity. Another approach to providing power is though triboelectric nanogenerators based on the contact electrification effect. Triboelectric nanogenerators harvest mechanical energy through a periodic contact and separation of two polymer plates. However most triboelectric nanogenerators have limited power output.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a triboelectric generator that includes a first contact charging member and a second contact charging member. The first contact charging member includes a first contact layer and a conductive electrode layer. The first contact layer has a contact side and an opposite back side. The first contact layer includes a material that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to exchange electrons due to a contacting event. The conductive electrode layer is disposed along the back side of the contact layer. The second contact charging member is spaced apart from and disposed oppositely from the first contact charging member. The second contact charging member includes an electrically conductive material layer that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to exchange electrons when contacted by the first contact layer during the contacting event. The electrically conductive material layer is configured to act as an electrode. A mechanism is configured to maintain a space between the first contact charging member and the second contact charging member except when a force is applied thereto.

In another aspect the invention is a triboelectric generating device that includes a first contact charging member and a second contact charging member. The first contact charging member includes a substrate layer having a first side and a second side a first contact layer and a conductive electrode layer. The substrate layer is configured to maintain a concave shape unless a force is applied thereto. The first contact layer has a contact side and is affixed to the first side of the substrate layer. The first contact layer includes a material that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to gain electrons due to a contacting event. The conductive electrode layer is affixed to the second side of the substrate layer. The second contact charging member is spaced apart from and disposed oppositely from the first contact charging member. The second contact charging member includes an electrically conductive metal layer that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to lose electrons when contacted by the first contact layer. The second contact charging member defines a concave shape that is reflective of the concave shape of the substrate layer.

In yet another aspect the invention is a triboelectric generating system that includes a first contact charging member a second contact charging member and at least one spring. The first contact charging member the first contact charging member includes a first rigid substrate a conductive electrode layer disposed on the substrate and a first contact layer. The first contact layer is disposed on the conductive electrode layer and includes a material that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to gain electrons due to a contacting event. The second contact charging member is spaced apart from and disposed oppositely from the first contact charging member and includes a second rigid substrate and an electrically conductive material layer. The electrically conductive material layer has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to lose electrons when contacted by the first contact layer disposed on the second rigid substrate. The spring is configured to maintain space between the first contact charging member and the second contact charging member except when a force is applied thereto.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 598 132 filed on Aug. 29 2012 by Wang et al. discloses methods of making triboelectric generators and components thereof and is incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of disclosing such methods.

As shown in one embodiment of a triboelectric generator includes a first contact charging member that has a first substrate material layer which could include poly 4 4 oxydiphenylene pyromellitimide which is sold under the trademark Kapton adjacent to a second substrate material layer which can include a material such as SiO. The first contact charging member also includes a first contact layer which could include for example PDMS PTFE FEP PVC and a Polyimide or any material that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to gain electrons due to a contacting event. The first substrate material layer and the second substrate material layer are applied to each other at an elevated temperature and then cooled so that differential shrinkage during cooling causes the contact charging member to have a concave shape. The first substrate material layer can include a polymer sheet having a first thermal expansion coefficient and the second substrate material layer can include a ceramic film having a second thermal expansion coefficient that is less than the first thermal expansion coefficient. A second contact charging member includes an electrically conductive metal layer which could include a material such as aluminum a metal or a conductive polymer that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to lose electrons when contacted by the first contact layer . The second contact charging member defines a concave shape that is reflective of the concave shape of the substrate layer so that when the second contact charging member is placed adjacent to the first contact layer the two layers define a space therebetween unless a force is applied to the layer to bring them together. A first conductive electrode which is applied to the second substrate material layer and the second contact charging member which acts as an electrode as a result of its conductivity can be coupled to a load to apply current thereto.

As shown in triboelectric nanogenerator generates current by applying a cycled compressive force onto the whole area of the device so that the bending plates will be periodically pressed to flatten and contact closely with each other as shown in . Once released as shown in the two plates will separate apart due to the stored elastic energy and revert instantaneously back to their original arch shape due to resilience. A cycled generation of the potential difference between the two electrodes and drives the flow of electrons through the load . At the original state before the contact of the triboelectric films as shown in there is no charge transferred thus no electric potential. Upon the pressing of the two films towards each other they will be brought fully into surface contact as shown in and possibly relative sliding would occur which results in electrons being transferred from a material in the positive side of the triboelectric series to the one in the negative side in the series. Accordingly electrons will be injected from the aluminum surface to PDMS surface leaving positive charges on aluminum foil . The positive triboelectric charges on the conductive aluminum foil attract the electrons in the opposite electrode to flow through the external load . After cycles of deformation when the device is press and the surfaces with charges are in close contact with each other all of the triboelectric charges will stay on the inner surfaces with the same surface density 0 . Once the pressing force is released the triboelectric nanogenerator will immediately rebound back to its original arch shape due to the elasticity of the film so that a gap will form again between the two plates as shown in . The electric field generated by the separated surface charges will then give rise to a much higher potential on the aluminum foil side than the top electrode . Such a potential difference will drive the flow of positive charges from aluminum foil to the top electrode through the external load until the potential difference is fully offset by the transferred charges rendering the top electrode with a surface charge density of while the aluminum electrode is left with 0 as shown in . Subsequently when the triboelectric nanogenerator is pressed again to reach the close contact of the two plates as shown in these redistributed charges will inversely build a positive potential on the top electrode which will drive all of the transferred charges to flow back to the inner surface of the aluminum foil . Then a cycle is achieved and the device will go back to the equilibrium state depicted in .

Both the voltage and current outputs are related to the amount of charges transferred A A is surface area of the plate which is determined by the triboelectric charge density 0 and the separation distance of the two plates. The results of an analytical calculation based on a simplified model of quasi infinite flat plates indicates the magnitude of the distance required for the optimum output as shown in . When the separation distance starts to increase from 0 to 0.7 mm keeps a very rapid increase from 0 to 90 of 0. Then the slope of this curve starts to decrease. Thus both an intimate contact and a subsequent separation of nearly 1 mm result in the phenomenal transferring of charges.

In one experimental embodiment the electric output measurement was performed on an arch shaped triboelectric nanogenerator device in a size of 3 cm 2.8 cm with the triggering frequency of 6 Hz and controlled amplitude. Since the accumulation of the triboelectric charges increases and reaches equilibrium in a certain period of time after multiple cycles the output will gradually go up in the first stage upon deformation. Then the open circuit voltage VOC will stabilize at 230 V measured by an electrometer with infinite input resistance. When the bottom Al is connected to the positive probe of the electrometer upon the release of the pressing force a positive voltage is generated because of the immediate charge separation. Since the electrons cannot flow in an open circuit condition the voltage will hold at a plateau unless there is a quick leakage. The peak value of the short circuit current ISC reaches 94 A corresponding to the half cycle of pressing that is in higher straining rate than releasing. The integration of the each current peak gives the total charges transferred in a half cycle of deformation. Moreover when the connection polarity to the electrometer is switched both the voltage and current signal will be completely reversed. The gap from the arch shaped structure is an important factor for the enhanced output because without the SiO2 film introduced bending there will be much smaller and unstable electrical output.

As shown in the triboelectric effect can be enhanced by using texture patterned surfaces on the first contact layer and the second contact layer . For example the surfaces can employ an array of pyramid structures or an array of box like structures or a combination of these structures or one of many other shaped structures formed in the surfaces.

Fabricating one experimental embodiment began with photolithographic patterning of 4 in. 100 Si wafers with thermally grown SiOon top. The patterned wafer with the array of square window openings was firstly etched by buffered oxide etching process to transfer the pattern onto the SiOlayer. Then the wafer was etched in KOH solution to fabricate the recessed features of pyramid. After cleaned with acetone isopropanol and ethanol in sequence the Si molds were treated with trimethylchlorosilane Sigma Aldrich by gas phase silanization to enable the easy peel off of the PDMS film from the Si mold in the following step. In preparing the patterned PDMS film the elastomer and the cross linker Sylgard 184 Dow Corning were mixed in a 10 1 ratio w w and then casted on the Si mold. After the degassing process under the vacuum the mixture was spin coated on the Si mold at 500 rpm for 60 s. After the thermally curing process at 85 C. for 1 hour the PDMS inked with pyramid patterns was peeled off from Si mold. The surface without patterns were glued to the inner surface of the bending Kapton substrate.

The triboelectric nanogenerator can be integrated with a battery such as a lithium ion battery. In assembling such an embodiment two different slurries for the two working electrodes were made which contain 70 wt active material LiCoOfor cathode and graphite for anode 10 wt carbon black powders as conductor 20 wt polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF binder and N methyl 2 pyrrolidone Sigma Aldrich as the solvent. Then the slurries were cast onto the current collectors Al foil for cathode and Cu foil for anode respectively with a uniform thickness of 10 m. The electrodes were baked at 110 C. under vacuum for 12 hours. Stainless steel coin cells were used for the battery assembly. The cathode and anode electrodes were stacked with a piece of polyethylene PE separator MTI Corporation in between. After the system was filled with electrolyte 1M LiPF6 in 1 1 1 ethylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate Novolyte Technologies the coin cell was finally sealed.

In another embodiment of a triboelectric nanogenerator as shown in the first contact charging member includes a first rigid substrate to which a conductive electrode layer is applied. The first rigid substrate can include a material such as polymethyl methacrylate PMMA . The conductive electrode layer can include for example a material such as gold a metal ITO or a conducting polymer. A first contact layer is applied to the conductive electrode layer . The first contact layer is made from a material that has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to gain electrons due to a contacting event such as for example PDMS PTFE FEP PVC or a polyimide. A second contact charging member includes a second rigid substrate which can include can include a material such as polymethyl methacrylate PMMA . An electrically conductive material layer is applied to the second rigid substrate . Electrically conductive material layer has a triboelectric series rating indicating a propensity to lose electrons when contacted by the first contact layer . In one representative embodiment the electrically conductive material layer includes a gold film and a plurality of gold nanoparticles disposed thereon on. One or more springs maintain a space between the first contact charging member and the second contact charging member except when a force is applied thereto. The springs may be held in place by receptacles defined by the rigid substrates and .

Compression of the first contact charging member and the second contact charging member is shown in . The use of nanoparticles increases the contact are substantially increasing the triboelectric effect. This embodiment of a triboelectric nanogenerator offers a substantially higher power output due nanoparticle based surface modification. In one experimental embodiment short circuit current reached a peak value of 2.0 mA which corresponded to the instantaneous power output of 1.2 W and power density of 322.7 W m. Average power output and energy conversion efficiency at device level was calculated to be 132 mW and 9.8 respectively. This embodiment also realized scaling up of nanogenerator power output making it power not just a single electronic device but hundreds of them simultaneously. Triggered by a commonly available mechanical source such as footfalls the nanogenerator was capable of instantaneously lighting up 600 commercial LED lamps in real time. This indicates the practicability of harvesting mechanical energy by the nanogenerator on a large scale. The working mechanism demonstrated here can be further applied to potentially harvest large scale mechanical energy such as from rolling wheels wind power and ocean waves.

In one experimental embodiment the nanogenerator has a layered structure with two substrates. Polymethyl methacrylate PMMA was selected as the material for substrates due to its decent strength light weight easy processing and low cost. On the lower side a layer of contact electrode is prepared. The contact electrode plays dual roles of electrode and contact surface. It consists of a gold thin film and gold nanoparticles coated on the surface. Alternatively nanoparticles of non precious metals can also be used as replacements. They modify the surface both physically and chemically. On the other side a thin film of gold is laminated between the substrate and a layer of polydimethylsiloxan PDMS . This electrode is referred to as the back electrode for later reference. The two substrates are connected by four springs installed at the corners leaving a narrow spacing between the contact electrode and the PDMS.

The electric energy generation process can be explained by the coupling between triboelectric effect and electrostatic effect. At the original position a separation distance is maintained by springs. When an external impact is applied onto one of the substrates the gold and PDMS are brought into contact. According to the triboelectric series that ranks materials tendency to gain or lose electrons electrons are injected from gold into PDMS resulting in surface triboelectric charges which are retained on the PDMS. As the impact is withdrawn the contacting surfaces move apart due to restoring force from the springs. Once a separation forms the back electrode possess a higher electric potential than the contact electrode producing an electric potential difference. Such a potential difference drives electrons through external loads and screens the positive triboelectric charges on the contact electrode. When the nanogenerator reverts back to the original position positive triboelectric charges on the contact electrode are completely screened leaving equal amount of inductive charges on the back electrode. Subsequently mechanical impact once again shortens the separation producing an electric potential difference with reversed polarity. In consequence electrons flow in a reversed direction. They keep screening inductive charges on the back electrode until a direct contact is again established. The insulating PDMS allows long time retention of the triboelectric charges on its surface even through the triboelectric charges on the metal side are periodically screened by inductive charges. In this process the nanogenerator acts as an electron pump that drives electrons back and forth between the two electrodes.

The nanogenerator s electric output is strongly related to the contacting force yielding higher output with larger force. At a force as small as 10 N the nanogenerator can still produce Iranging from 160 A to 175 A. When the force increases to 500 N the electric output reaches a saturated value producing a peak Iof 1.2 mA. This result is due to increased contact area with larger force. The two contacting surfaces are neither absolutely flat nor smooth. Surface roughness may be caused by inherent curvature of the substrates nanoparticle modification and fabrication defects such as particle contamination from the air. At small contacting force the surface roughness prevents fully intimate contact between the contact electrode and the PDMS leaving some areas untouched. With increased force due to elastic property the PDMS can deform and fill more vacant space thus leading to larger contact area. As a result the electric output increases until all the vacant space is completely filled by the PDMS reaching a saturated limit.

As an important figure of merit energy conversion efficiency of the nanogenerator was calculated. The conversion efficiency is defined as the ratio between the electric energy that is delivered to load by the nanogenerator and the mechanical energy the nanogenerator possesses. is a current pulse output produced by human footfall at load resistance of 1 M . The time span between tand trepresents a single contact. With an external load of pure resistance the electric energy delivered by the nanogenerator is equal to the Joule heating energy which is presented below. 1 10 0.74 mJ 1 where Q is the Joule heating energy I is the instantaneous current and R is the load resistance. Consequently the average power output W can be obtained by

As soon as the mechanical energy is introduced it presents in two forms i.e. elastic energy stored in the springs and kinetic energy carried by a moveable substrate of the nanogenerator. The elastic energy is later released without converting into electric energy which is calculated by

For kinetic energy at the moment when the two substrates make a contact it completely transforms to other forms including electric energy and thermal energy. It can be calculated by the following equation.

The unprecedentedly high power output of the nanogenerator is mainly attributed to three factors. Firstly the contact electrode plays dual roles of electrode and contacting surface. Compared to previously reported designs in which both of the contacting surfaces are made of polymers more inductive charges will be generated for the new design. Secondly the elastic property of PDMS enables conformal contact despite of surface roughness. The PDMS can easily deform in response to small pressure and fill the otherwise vacant space that result from substrate curvature and fabrication defects. The tolerance on surface roughness ensures as much contact area as it can be possibly obtained. Also the surface modification by gold nanoparticles plays an important role for the output enhancement. It can offer five fold increase on the current output compared to the device without modification. Physically the bumpy surface of the nanoparticle provides a larger contact area than a flat surface does. Chemically the as synthesized gold nanoparticles are positively charged in nature. The pre carried positive charges may be able to add up with triboelectric charges upon contact leading to a largely enhanced surface charge density and thus a substantially higher electric output.

Materials Hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide 99 was purchased from Sigma. Sodium tetrachloroaurate dihydrate 99 and 1 4 Benzenedithiol 99 were purchased from Aldrich. Hydrazine hydrate solution 78 82 was purchased from Sigma Aldrich. Deionized water was obtained using a ultrapure 18.2 M cm system.

Synthesis of gold nanoparticles A solution 50 mL containing Sodium tetrachloroaurate dihydrate 1 mM and hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide 10 mM was brought to a vigorous boil with stirring in a round bottom flask fitted with a reflux condenser Hydrazine hydrate solution 20 L was then added rapidly to the solution. The solution was heated under reflux for another 8 min during which time its color changed from pale yellow to pale red. The solution was cooled to room temperature while stirring continuously. The average size 56 nm of the synthesized gold nanoparticles was verified through SEM analysis.

Self assembly of gold nanoparticles onto Au thin film Au films were derivatized by immersion in a solution of 1 4 benzenedithiol for 12 h and rinsed with methanol and then water. The derivatized Au films were then immersed in a solution of gold nanoparticles for 12 hours to allow for complete adsorption of a single gold nanoparticle layer. Before the SEM characterization and electrical measurement non adsorbed gold nanoparticles were removed by rinsing with water.

Fabrication of the triboelectric nanogenerator To fabricate the nanogenerator two pieces of cast acrylic glass were prepared as substrates with dimensions of 3 inch by 3 inch by 3 32 inch. Four half thorough holes were drilled at corners as houses for spring installation. 50 nm of gold was deposited on both of the substrates by e beam evaporator 2 inch by 3 inch . On one of the substrates fluid PDMS that consisted of base and curing agent in a ratio of 5 1 was spin coated to form a 10 m thick layer. Then it was cured at 100 C. for 45 minutes. On the other substrate gold nanoparticles were uniformly distributed on gold surface by self assembly. Subsequently four springs spring constant 7.3 lb inch were installed in the houses to connect the two substrates together leaving a spacing of 1 mm between the gold and the PDMS. The spacing is required to be substantially larger than the polymer thickness to ensure effective generation of inductive charges. Finally conducting wires were connected to the two metal layers as leads for subsequent electric measurement or for connection to an external load.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

