---

title: Apparatus, system, and method for automated call initiation
abstract: Apparatus, systems, and methods for communication analysis and handling, such as automated analysis and handling of telephone calls. In some implementations, the method may comprise initiating a first communication to a destination using a first communication line, performing an analysis on the first communication, and sending a communication signal generated at the destination to a first agent. The communication signal may comprise a live communication signal, and the step of sending the communication signal to the first agent may be performed concurrently with the analysis on the first communication such that the agent may thereby be able to monitor the communication and assume a natural response to the person without unnatural delay as the communication begins.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08787546&OS=08787546&RS=08787546
owner: Incontact, Inc.
number: 08787546
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130930
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 461 550 filed on May 1 2012 and titled Apparatus System and Method for Automated Call Initiation which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 663 filed on May 5 2010 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 184 789 and is titled Apparatus System and Method for Automated Call Initiation which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 406 021 filed on Mar. 17 2009 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 734 029 and is titled Apparatus System and Method for Automated Call Initiation which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 069 742 filed on Mar. 17 2008 and is titled Automated Contact System. Each of the foregoing applications is hereby incorporated herein by specific reference.

This invention relates to call initiation and more particularly relates to automated call initiation.

Contact centers also known as call centers typically use automated dialers to increase productivity. These automated dialers sometimes referred as predictive dialers or power dialers work on the principle that a dialing system should be calling numbers before an agent is ready for the call in order to have a call ready for the agent when the agent becomes available. When an agent is ready the call is transferred to the agent. As a result a called party may have already answered on the other end. This system works well for agent productivity however it has several serious disadvantages. The most notable is a delay between when the called party answers the call and issues a greeting and when the assigned agent replies. This delay and the unnatural human call initiation that accompanies it are caused by the fact that the call was initiated by an automated dialer looking for a live person and not by an actual agent.

Furthermore automated dialers are also typically implemented using a centralized dialing system that initiates the calls described above and then transfers the calls to user terminals when certain conditions are met. These centralized dialers are traditionally very expensive systems.

The present invention has been developed to provide an apparatus system and method for automated call initiation that achieves the same advantages as traditional automated call initiation systems without the need for an expensive centralized dialer or the processing delays the conventional automated dialer creates.

A method is presented for initiating a call to a destination initiating a call status determination during the call status determination sending audio information from the destination to an agent and assigning the call to the agent. As used herein the term during means that the particular operation is being performed at the same time as concurrent with or at substantially the same time as at least one second operation. In relation to the claimed invention the terms during concurrent with simultaneous with and or substantially simultaneous with refer to the execution of two or more operations within the same period of time. Alternatively if the two or more operations are not technically executed at the same moment in time but are actually executed in whole or in part in sequence with each other such execution is within such a small period of time that a person interacting with a processing device executing the two or more operations is unable to determine that the two or more operations are actually being performed consecutively in whole or in part.

The method includes initiating a call to a destination using a first communication line. The method also includes initiating a call status determination that determines when a person answers the call at the destination. Furthermore the method includes during the call status determination sending audio information from the destination to an agent. In addition the method includes assigning the call to the agent in response to the call status determination determining that the person answered the call at the destination.

In one embodiment the method includes sending audio information from the agent to the person during the call status determination. In another embodiment the call status determination incorporates a verbal response from the agent in determining that the person answered the call at the destination. In some embodiments the method also includes sending audio information from the call to two or more agents during the call status determination. The call is assigned to an available agent from the two or more agents.

In one embodiment the method includes initiating a plurality of calls and initiating a call status determination for each of the plurality of calls. Furthermore during the call status determination the method may determine a likelihood for each of the plurality of calls that each call is contacting a person. In addition during the call status determination the method may send audio information from a destination of a selected call to an available agent. The selected call is a call with the highest likelihood of contacting a person.

In some embodiments a user terminal initiates the call. The user terminal may include two or more communication lines and may be operated by an agent. Furthermore in another embodiment the user terminal includes an analysis module configured to execute the call status determination.

In one embodiment the method includes initiating a second call on the user terminal using a second communication line. The method may also transfer the second call to a second user terminal in response to determining that the agent at the first user terminal is unavailable to accept the second call and determining that a second agent operating the second user terminal is available to accept the second call. In another embodiment the method includes sending terminal call status from the user terminal to a call controller. The call controller receives group information and assigns a plurality of calls to agents for the plurality of user terminals based on the group information. The group information includes terminal call statuses from a plurality of user terminals.

In one embodiment the method includes broadcasting terminal call status from the user terminal to one or more additional user terminals. The user terminal receives terminal call statuses from the one or more additional user terminals and maintains group information comprising terminal call statuses for each user terminal.

An apparatus is presented for automated call initiation using a predictive dialing algorithm. The apparatus includes an initiation module an analysis module an audio monitoring module and an assignment module. In certain embodiments the apparatus may also include an audio transmission module a transferring module a sending module a group tracking module a broadcasting module and a status receiving module. In addition the analysis module may include a detection module. The preceding modules may be configured to functionally perform the necessary steps as described above in relation to the method. In one embodiment the analysis module initiates a Call Progress Analysis CPA that determines that a person answers the call at the destination. Furthermore the audio monitoring module may send audio information from the destination to an agent concurrent with the CPA. In addition the audio transmission module may send audio information from the agent to the person concurrent with the CPA.

A system of the present invention is also presented for automated call initiation. The system may be embodied as a network a call controller and a user terminal. The user terminal and call controller may comprise modules similar to the modules described above in relation to the apparatus and also configured to functionally perform the necessary steps as described above in relation to the method. In addition a transferring module of the system and or apparatus may receive a second call from a second user terminal in response to a determination that the agent at the user terminal is available to accept the second call.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussion of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

These features and advantages of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. Where a module or portions of a module are implemented in software the software portions are stored on one or more computer readable media.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

Reference to a computer readable storage medium may take any form capable of storing machine readable instructions on a digital processing apparatus. A computer readable storage medium may be embodied by a compact disk digital video disk a magnetic tape a Bernoulli drive a magnetic disk a punch card flash memory integrated circuits or other digital processing apparatus memory device.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

The schematic flow chart diagrams included herein are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

As used herein user terminal is a device used by a person or process to initiate communication such as a call. Although the depicted embodiment shows two user terminals any number of user terminals may be used in the system . A user terminal may be a combination of software and hardware or implemented with software or hardware alone. The user terminal may be a personal computer a laptop computer a workstation a computer system an appliance an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a digital music player a server a server blade center a server farm a router a switch an appliance a motor an automotive system an avionics system or the like. One of skill in the art will recognize other examples of electronic devices that may serve as the user terminal . The user terminal may include a system bus a processor a system memory and one or more memory storage devices

Each user terminal is operated by a contact center agent agent . An agent may be a person or automated process. Each user terminal has at least one communication line. In certain embodiments each user terminal has two or more communication lines and is able to simultaneously process and or analyze the two or more communication lines.

As used herein a communication line may be but is not limited to a physical or virtual controlled media stream or channel such as a traditional telephone line a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP line a Session Initiation Protocol SIP line a communications socket a video conferencing communications socket and the like.

An agent may initiate calls from the user terminal . As used herein a call may comprise any communication path between two or more parties. A call may comprise an audio communication a video communication or an audio and video communication. Furthermore a call may comprise various forms of media or combinations thereof such as audio data text messages presence information video pictures binary data and the like. A call may be embodied as a data stream audio wave electronic signal or similar analog or digital media.

The user terminal may initiate a call through any device or software that initiates media communications sessions. In one embodiment an agent uses a VoIP soft phone at the user terminal to initiate and engage in a call. Furthermore the user terminal may also interface with other systems or software such as a Customer Relationship Management CRM system through an Application Programming Interface API or other interface known in the art. A CRM may track customer information and other contacts. The user terminal may also interface with a payroll management solution or other employee tracking and or management software.

The user interface devices may comprise devices for communicating to and receiving communication from a user as is known in the art. Such devices may include but are not limited to a computer monitor a touch screen a keyboard a computer mouse and the like.

The communications devices in one embodiment are devices for the agent to communicate over the communication line and may include any electronic device capable of receiving and transmitting audio or video information operationally coupled to the user terminal . In one embodiment the communications device comprises a VoIP communications device. Advantageously a less expensive device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB style phone or headset microphone and speaker may also be used.

The automated call apparatus enable the user terminals to work together in a group or cluster and de centralizes call analysis and call management. In one embodiment the automated call apparatus implements call initiation using automatic dialing. An automated dialing system automatically initiates a plurality of calls rapidly to maximize the number of outgoing calls from a contact center. An automated dialing system may use a predictive dialing algorithm or may simply initiate as many calls as possible connecting up calls with agents when an agent is available. The automated call apparatus in one embodiment implements automated call initiation with or without a predictive algorithm or predictive dialing at the user terminal instead of at a centralized dialing server. Predictive algorithms determine when calls should be initiated to maximize an agent s efficiency. Specifically a predictive algorithm tracks the progress of a plurality of calls anticipates when an agent will become available even when the agent is currently occupied with other calls and assigns a call to an available agent. Predictive or automatic dialing may include any system or mechanism to determine where and when to place a call.

Furthermore in another embodiment the automated call apparatus also performs call analysis at the user terminal in connection with the predictive call initiation. This call analysis includes Call Progress Analysis CPA that tracks the disposition of a call or the stage of the call such as whether the call is ringing or busy or answered by a machine or answered by a person.

In addition another form of call analysis is Call Management Analysis CMA that determines what action to take with the call such as terminating the call assigning the call to an agent and the like. A conventional centralized dialer performs both CPA and CMA. When the centralized dialer determines that a person has answered the call the centralized dialer assigns and transfers the call to an available agent. The person that answered the call in the meantime encounters an unnatural pause during the CPA and CMA. Conventionally anytime an automatic dialer such as a conventional centralized dialer initiates a call and performs call analysis the person that answers the initiated call will hear a pause that may last several seconds as the call is connected to an agent.

The automated call apparatus may initiate the calls and perform the CPA and or the CMA at the user terminal . Besides de centralizing the automated call initiation and analysis and initiating one or more calls at the user terminal the automated call apparatus sends audio information from the destination called to the agent with a preliminary connection. As used herein a preliminary connection comprises sending audio information from the call or destination to the agent and or sending audio information from the agent to the destination or into the call before the call has been permanently assigned to the agent. This audio information allows the agent to listen to a call while the call is being analyzed. In certain embodiments the automated call apparatus may send audio information from the agent to the destination called enabling two way communication between the agent and the destination called the instant a called person answers. In one embodiment the automated call apparatus during the call analysis including the CPA and CMA of a plurality of simultaneous calls may allow an agent to listen to the call most likely to have reached a person. In one example the call determined to be the most likely to have reached a person may be the call that has been connected to the destination the longest. For example the automated call apparatus initiates a call and preliminarily connects the call to an agent who hears the last rings followed by the newly called party saying hello. The agent is able to respond immediately and naturally. By de centralizing the predictive call initiation and analysis lead to initiating calls from the user terminal . In embodiments where the calls are initiated on the user terminal the inventor discovered that the user terminal can send the audio information from a call in progress during the call analysis phase to the agent at the user terminal . Optionally the user terminal can send the audio information from the agent to a destination being called by the agent s own user terminal . As a result of sending the audio information from a call in progress during the call analysis phase to the agent at the user terminal the inventor unexpectedly discovered that the unnatural pause is eliminated when a call connects to a living person.

It should be noted that the sequence of operations in the embodiments of the claimed invention differ markedly from the sequence of operations for conventional automated dialers and in particular for predictive dialers. In conventional dialers audio information from a call including audio information from a person answering the call is sent to an available agent only after a determination is made that the call has reached a living person. As explained this sequence of events leads to an unnatural pause which may signal the called person to end the call. In contrast the sequence of operations of embodiments of the claimed invention send audio information originating from the destination being called to an available agent before and or during the period of time that the automated call apparatus is determining whether the call is being answered by a person. Consequently if the automated call apparatus assigns the call to the agent the agent can answer immediately with a natural response. In certain embodiments the automated call apparatus may also send audio information originating from the available agent to the called destination before and or during the period of time that the automated call apparatus is determining if the call is being answered by a person.

Furthermore in some embodiments the automated call apparatus may interact with other user terminals directly or through the call controller to transfer or receive transferred calls thereby ensuring that a call is assigned to an agent if the agent at the user terminal where the call originated is not available.

With the automated call apparatus the system gives a contact center the productivity advantages of automatic and predictive dialing while eliminating the delay and unnatural call introductions that are associated with automatic dialing and other call initiation devices. These two factors may yield a higher rate of productivity and customer satisfaction for the contact center. Another benefit of the system is the dramatic savings for contact centers as the system eliminates the need for most of the expensive components associated with automated dialing. For example consider a contact center using an expensive central dialing server. The central dialer is connected to a traditional long distance telephone carrier through traditional T1 interfaces. Telephones at the agent s stations are connected using traditional telephone wiring systems connected to a PBX system.

The company may replace all of the above stated devices except their existing CRM solution by implementing an embodiment of the system with the automated call apparatus . Now a simple system of clustered user terminals may communicate directly with each other and with a VoIP to PSTN carrier. In addition to replacing expensive dialing hardware the company may also replace the traditional T1s. This will save the company thousands in monthly fees. In certain embodiments each agent s user terminal will serve as a mini dialer to initiate calls.

Therefore because the automated call apparatus provides the benefit of automated dialing without the unnatural delays associated with conventional automated dialing including predictive dialing the call initiation performed by the system with the automated call apparatus may be termed natural automated dialing. 

The network may comprise a single network a plurality of networks an LAN a plurality of LANs a localized intranet the Internet wireless networks wireless cellular phone networks a localized intranet in communication with the Internet and the like.

The call controller is in communication with the network. The call controller in one embodiment coordinates call initiation at the user terminals and tracks the call status of each line on the user terminal . The call controller may transfer a call or instruct a user terminal to transfer a call from one user terminal to another user terminal . Furthermore the call controller may also maintain a directory with information for each user terminal such as storing IP addresses of active user terminals in a group. In some embodiments the call controller uses a simple messaging system such as Extended Markup Language XML over an HTTP based messaging protocol to stay in constant communications with user terminals .

The call controller may execute on a personal computer a laptop computer a workstation a computer system an appliance an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a digital music player a server a server blade center a server farm a router a switch an appliance a motor an automotive system an avionics system or the like. One of skill in the art will recognize other examples of electronic devices that may serve as the call controller . The call controller may include a system bus a processor a system memory and one or more memory devices.

In one embodiment the call controller comprises a centralized dialer that performs automated and or predictive dialing at the call controller . For example a contact center that has invested heavily in centralized equipment may prefer a hybrid solution such as initiating the calls from the centralized dialer but allowing an agent at a user terminal to hear audio from the call while the centralized dialer analyzes the call.

Furthermore in one embodiment the data storage device is in communication with the call controller and stores the directory of user terminal information used by the call controller to monitor the status of each user terminal . The data storage device may comprise a relational database implemented on computer readable storage medium.

Although the system depicts a call controller the system may also be embodied without a call controller . Specifically in such an embodiment all communication occurs between the user terminals using peer to peer or other collaborative communications functionality. For example a user terminal may communicate directly with another user terminal to transfer a call or to receive a transferred call. Furthermore each user terminal may store group information or information on the status of the calls on all user terminals as described below.

The communications gateway allows the user terminals to connect to non native network types such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or the cellular network. The plurality of destinations may include telephones on non native networks such as the PSTN or the cellular network. As used herein a destination comprises an entity device or person that receives communication and is reachable by an address or reference. Therefore a destination may be the telephones connected to the line reachable by a particular telephone number the VoIP device identifiable by a username and or Uniform Resource Identifier URI Internet address and the like. One of ordinary skill in the art realizes that a destination may comprise the receiver of communication over numerous communication protocols.

The network destination may include VoIP devices and other devices in communication with the network through protocols such as URI to URI communications Pure SIP communications Peer to Peer communications End to End communications and the like. In this manner a media communications session may be made directly between two systems on a network such as the Internet or between a combination of networks such as the Internet and a wide area network without the need for a paid intermediary such as a phone company.

The initiation module initiates a call to a destination using a first communication line. Initiating a call may comprise transmitting a data stream from a source to a destination such as placing a telephone call or transmitting a video audio a call initiation signal or other media stream across the network or across the network and through the gateway to another communications protocol. The initiation module may initiate a call by dialing a phone number beginning a session or referencing a variety of communication addresses including a PSTN phone number an Internet Uniform Resource Identifier URI an Internet IP Address a Skype name and the like.

Initiating a call may also comprise connecting a user terminal or central dialer to the media stream and may include connecting a telephone call to a phone connecting a video stream to a display connecting an audio stream to a microphone and speakers and connecting a media stream to external devices for additional processing.

The initiation module may initiate a plurality of calls sequentially or simultaneously. In certain embodiments the initiation module simultaneously initiates calls on and maintains at least two lines at each user terminal . This enables the automated and or predictive capability yielded by having multiple lines per agent. Therefore in one embodiment the initiation module resides on a user terminal and calls are actually initiated at the terminal instead of at a centralized dialer. In one embodiment the initiation module runs a predictive dialing algorithm at the user terminal to determine what destinations to call the timing of the calls to ensure that an agent is available and the like.

In another embodiment the initiation module sends requests from the user terminal to the call controller that include the current line statuses call progress statuses and other information for the user terminal . The call controller replies with a phone number or destination address to begin calling on an unused line. The call controller may delay the reply if the call controller determines that a call is not appropriate at that time. In this embodiment the predictive dialing algorithm may reside on the centralized call controller and may determine call initiation requests for each user terminal . However in this embodiment even if the predictive dialing algorithm is implemented at the call controller the predictive dialing algorithm interacts with each user terminal separately since calls may be initiated by the user terminals individually and not initiated by a centralized server and then transferred to the user terminals after the calls are connected.

In another embodiment the initiation module resides on a centralized device such as the call controller or a conventional centralized dialer. In this embodiment calls are initiated from a centralized location and not at the user terminal .

The analysis module initiates a call status determination that determines when a person answers the call at the destination . In another embodiment the analysis module determines that a person answers the call at the destination . The analysis module may initiate a call status determination for a plurality of calls in sequence or simultaneously. In one embodiment the call status determination comprises an automated or automatic process performed by a computer or electronic processor in cooperation with a memory device to determine the status of one or more calls. In certain embodiments the call status determination comprises a set of machine executable instructions configured for automatic execution by an electronic processor in cooperation with a memory device such as in a computer. The call status determination may comprise the CPA process as described above. Specifically in one embodiment the CPA process comprises mechanisms for tone detection signaling detection voice detection and the like. Therefore the call status determination may analyze the audio of the call to determine the status of the call. Ring busy in progress answered by machine answered by a person and no answer are examples of different possible call statuses. The call status specifics may be different according to the various communication protocols. The analysis module may also parse SIP signaling text or any other media specific call signaling mechanism to determine the state of the call.

In one embodiment the analysis module may determine that a person answered the call at the destination through the call status determination. The analysis module may use audio analysis to determine that a person answered the call. Furthermore in certain embodiments the call status determination may incorporate a verbal response from the agent in determining whether a person answered the call at the destination . As will be described in more detail hereafter the agent may monitor and interact with the call as the analysis module is analyzing the call. Therefore if an agent hears a person answer the call and the person answering says hello and the agent answers with a greeting of his her own the call status determination may incorporate the verbal response from the agent such that the analysis module determines whether a live person answered the phone.

The analysis module may also perform all or a subset of the CMA functions as described above. Specifically the analysis module may monitor the state of the call status determination the state of the user agent the state of other user agents and information from the destination of the call to determine when a call should be preliminarily connected with an agent during analysis as will be described hereafter. The analysis module may also determine when to disconnect the call from the call status determination and which call to assign to the agent.

In one embodiment the analysis module resides on each user terminal . Therefore the analysis module may analyze the calls that are initiated at the user terminal . In another embodiment the analysis module resides on a centralized device such as the call controller or a conventional centralized dialer. In this embodiment calls are analyzed from a centralized location and not at the user terminal .

The audio monitoring module sends audio information from the destination to an agent during or concurrent with the call status determination. In one embodiment audio information comprises audio signals and or data such as human voice signals transmitted from the call originating from the call included as part of the call and or transmitted from the destination through the call. The audio information may include audio ring signals audio tones and audio input signals from a person answering the call at the destination. Furthermore the audio information may comprise a substantially real time transmission of audible sounds at the destination. In one embodiment the audio information sent by the audio monitoring module serves as an audio preview of the call for a listening agent. Alternatively or in addition in certain embodiments the audio monitoring module sends audio information from the agent to the destination during or concurrent with the call status determination. The audio monitoring module may actively send audio information to the agent. For example in one embodiment the audio monitoring module preliminarily connects the call to the agent at the user terminal so that the agent may interact with the call while the analysis module analyzes the call with the call status determination. Therefore the agent hears the audio from the call because the agent is connected to the call. The preliminary connection may be substantially similar to a full connection except that the call has not been permanently or officially assigned to the agent. The audio monitoring module may preliminarily connect an agent to a call on one of the communication lines active on the user terminal at which the agent operates such as a call initiated at the user terminal or a call transferred from another user terminal

In addition the audio monitoring module may passively send audio information to an agent. Passively sending audio information to an agent as used herein means that the agent can hear the audio information received by the analysis module during the establishing of the call including voice audio from a person answering the call. The operation is passive because the agent is listening in to the call progress and may or may not eventually be assigned to the call once the call analysis is completed. For example in one embodiment the agent engages in a call at a user terminal and the audio monitoring module preliminarily connects the agent to the call by sending audio information from the called destination to the agent allowing the agent to listen in to the call and prepare a suitable greeting.

In one embodiment the audio monitoring module sends audio information from a selected call to an available agent during the call status determination. The selected call may be a call having a highest likelihood of contacting a person. Furthermore the audio monitoring module may also send audio information for a plurality of calls to the agent. In this embodiment the user terminal may listen to the ringing on a plurality of communication lines and may select a line with which to exclusively interact either automatically or with a prompt from the agent at the user terminal.

In another embodiment the audio monitoring module preliminarily connects the call to an agent by establishing a provisional connection between the agent and the call thus allowing an agent to hear portions of call signaling audio information for a call associated with that agent. In this embodiment the audio monitoring module may reside on a centralized dialer or call controller and the audio monitoring module may send the audio information to a user terminal before the call is actually transferred normally connected and or assigned to the agent. Then if a subsequent conversation begins the agent has already heard the greeting and may begin a natural call flow.

In one embodiment the audio monitoring module sends audio information from the call to two or more agents during the call status determination. The assignment module may then assign the call to an available agent from the two or more agents. For example the audio monitoring module sends audio information from the call to an agent at a first user terminal and to an agent at a second user terminal . The agent at the second user terminal hears a person answer the call and the agent may signal that he she is available using an indicator such as a button on a keyboard. In response to the indicator the assignment module may assign to the agent at the second user terminal . In such an embodiment the two or more agents may be capable of speaking different languages and thus the agent hearing the called party answer in a particular language may signal that he she is available to take the call in that particular language.

The assignment module assigns the call to the agent. The assignment module may passively assign the call to the agent by allowing the call to continue if the agent is already preliminarily connected to the call. In addition the assignment module may actively assign the call to the agent by transferring the call to the agent or user terminal assigned to the agent if the call was not previously preliminarily connected. Alternatively or in addition the assignment module may actively assign the call to the agent by updating status information to indicate that the particular call is being handled by the assigned agent. Therefore in one embodiment the assignment module assigns a call by fully transferring connecting and updating status information where the call was preliminarily assigned to the agent previously or the agent was able to monitor or input audio to from the call.

The assignment module may reside on the user terminal to assign active calls on the communication lines of the user terminal . The assignment module may also reside on a centralized dialer or call controller . In this embodiment the assignment module on the centralized dialer may transfer the call to the agent listening to audio cues from the call thus permanently connecting the agent whereas the agent was previously simply preliminarily connected such as listening to audio portions of the call before the transfer. In one embodiment the assignment module assigns the call to the agent in response to the call status determination determining that a person answered the call at the destination .

The detection module determines a likelihood for each of the plurality of calls that each call is contacting a person during the call status determination to aid in determining which call an available agent should monitor be listening to audio from the destination . The detection module may analyze the audio of the call or utilize cues from various communication protocols as is known in the art.

The audio transmission module sends audio information from the agent to the person during the call status determination. In one embodiment transmitted audio information comprises audio information transmitted from the call originating from the call part of the call and transmitted from the agent through the call. The transmitted audio information may include audio input directly from an agent preliminarily connected to the call. The transmitted audio information may also include audio input from an agent routed into the call. As with the audio monitoring module the audio transmission module may preliminarily connect the call to the agent at the user terminal such that audio produced by the voice of the agent is sent to the destination . In this manner the agent may interact with the call simultaneous with the analysis module analyzing the call with the call status determination. Therefore the agent may interact with the call an operator of the destination and the audio transmission module may send audio information from the agent because the agent is both hearing audio from the destination and providing responsive audio in relation to the call.

In another embodiment the audio transmission module does not preliminarily connect the call to the agent by completely engaging the call with an agent but by transmitting the audio from the agent to the destination or through the call. In this embodiment the audio transmission module may reside on a centralized dialer or call controller and the audio transmission module may send the audio information from a user terminal before the call is actually transferred fully connected assigned to the agent at the user terminal .

The transferring module transfers a second call on a second communication line to a second user terminal in response to determining that the agent at the first user terminal is unavailable to accept the second call and determining that a second agent operating the second user terminal is available to accept the second call. The transferring module may also receive a second call from a second user terminal in response to a determination that the agent at the user terminal is available to accept the second call. The transferring module may transfer or receive a plurality of calls to or from a plurality of user terminals

Therefore the transferring module allows the full benefits of automated dialing algorithms and or predictive dialing algorithms even when calls are initiated at each user terminal . The transferring module may transfer calls to available user terminals other than the user terminal from which the call originated.

For example a first terminal initiated a secondary call that rings while the agent is still on a primary call. A second terminal initiated a secondary call and the secondary call is busy leaving the agent at the second terminal ready for another call. The transferring module transfers the secondary call from the first user terminal before the called party says hello. The agent at the second terminal hears the hello and is able to respond naturally and quickly. Had the called party said hello during or just before this transfer was complete a pause would have occurred and the called party may have detected that the call was not natural. Although this pause may at times occur this pause will occur much less frequently than when a transfer is required for all calls after the calls reach a person as it is in conventional centralized systems.

In one embodiment the transferring module resides on the user terminal and the user terminals operate with peer to peer functionality. In this embodiment the transferring module may send or receive transfer requests. In another embodiment the transferring module resides on the call controller and a centralized transferring module handles transfers for all user terminals . The transferring module may base transfer determination on group information which describes the call statuses for the lines on each user terminal as described below.

In some embodiments the transferring module is implemented through existing transferring mechanisms such as SIP transfers flash hook transfers PBX transfers PRI transfers and the like.

The sending module sends terminal call status from the user terminal to a call controller . Terminal call status may include the call statuses such as busy ringing answering machine voice mail and conversation for calls on each line of a user terminal . Terminal call status may also include the status of each line such as whether the line is active or inactive and the length of time spent on any ongoing calls. The sending module may send call status and terminal call status to the call controller at any time. For example the sending module may send call status periodically at a predetermined time interval. In addition the sending module may send call status when a particular event occurs such as when a call is ringing or when a call encounters a busy signal.

The sending module may be implemented using conventional node to node communication mechanisms known in the art such as XML messages transmitted through TCP IP packets.

The group tracking module receives group information from a plurality of user terminals . The group information may comprise terminal call statuses from a plurality of user terminals acting as a group. Group information may also include group identification information project identification information call identification information skill set information for intelligent routing Automatic Call Distribution ACD information decision both factors in determining decisions and results of decisions user terminal identification information line identification information customer identification information date and time information at a message level or specific to any information within the message unique identifiers to associate calls or other processes with a record in an external data system and any other information as required by the group tracking module . Group information may also track the transfer of calls track requests for call transfers track the status of call transfers or assist in any other way with the call transfer logic and mechanism.

This data in any combination or sub set thereof may be transmitted separately or as part of other data transmissions. In one embodiment the group tracking module resides on the call controller and the call controller may coordinate with the assignment module to assign a plurality of calls to agents for the plurality of user terminals based on the group information. The group tracking module may be implemented on and or stored within a database in communication with the call controller as is known in the art. In one embodiment each user terminal writes information about the status of the user terminal and reads information about the status of other user terminals to a centralized database or to separate storage maintained by each user terminal .

The group tracking module may also reside on each user terminal such as in a peer to peer environment. Moreover the group tracking module may receive group information using conventional node to node communication mechanisms known in the art. In one embodiment the group tracking module implements a directory service that allows a user terminal to locate another user terminal . The directory service may be implemented using DNS or other existing directory technologies. This information may also be pulled from another company directory such as the CRM solution.

The broadcasting module broadcasts terminal call status from the user terminal to one or more additional user terminals . In a preferred embodiment the broadcasting module resides on each user terminal to share terminal call status information with every other user terminal . In this embodiment the user terminals may operate in a peer to peer environment and may use information regarding every other terminal for call transferring decisions. Furthermore the broadcasting module may broadcast terminal call status information using conventional node to node communication mechanisms known in the art. In addition the broadcasting module may broadcast terminal call status to all user terminals or send terminal call status to a single user terminal in a chain which then sends the information on to another user terminal in the chain.

In one embodiment the status receiving module receives terminal call status information from the one or more additional user terminals and maintains group information comprising terminal call statuses for each user terminal . In a preferred embodiment the status receiving module resides on the user terminal . Furthermore the group information maintained by the status receiving module at each user terminal may be substantially similar to the group information described above in relation to the group tracking module . The status receiving module may store and maintain group information using a conventional database in communication with the user terminal or other data storage devices known in the art.

The recording module marks the result of each call and records it in a database or other storage medium. The conventional process of result recording as it is known in the art is performed manually by the agent in manual dialing and automatically by the dialer in automatic or predictive dialing. However the recording module is capable of recording the results faster than an agent and does not interfere with agent productivity. In one embodiment the recording module resides at the user terminal thus allowing the agent to hear the call progress while the recording module at the user terminal still automatically records the call results. Thus the agent has the advantage of initiating calls in a natural way and the contact center has the advantage associated with automatically recording call results.

The user interface module displays real time line and call information to the agent at the user terminal . The user interface module may display text icons sounds or other output to the agent to communicate the status of lines and other call control and application information. In one embodiment a series of icons on a user interface device such as a screen represent the lines for the user terminal . An agent is able to visually see the status of call progress on multiple lines. The icons let the agent know before a call is transferred to or from another user terminal . The user interface module assists an agent as he she prepares to accept a sudden inbound transfer from another user terminal . The user interface module may also allow an agent to know if an answered call at a line on his her user terminal has been transferred or needs attention. The user interface module may also display messages from supervisors or the display may be controlled by supervisors as needed. The user interface module may be implemented using graphical user interface applications or programming known in the art.

The audio modification module replaces call signaling audio with other audio media. Agents in a contact center become quickly fatigued from hearing ringing busy signals and other call related sounds. The audio modification module allows agents or administrators to replace these sounds with music or other more pleasant sounds to reduce fatigue while still communicating specific call status or progress information. In one embodiment sounds are selected by the agent to replace common signaling sounds such as music for ringing a chime for a busy signal and the like.

In one embodiment the audio modification module lowers the volume of sounds based upon the state of the call like ringing music tones indicators and the like. The audio modification module may implement selective volume lowering by detecting the state of the call and significantly lowering the volume of the media sent to the agent when the call state indicates that a conversation is not in progress. The audio modification module may likewise return the volume to a normal level when the call state indicates that a conversation is in progress.

The media module sends and receives additional media for management and other purposes. For example a media module at a user terminal may send a media stream that includes any combination of audio in progress video from a camera video from the user s screen text messages text representations of call progress or application information video from other sources audio from other sources or any other media from other sources. These streams may be used in the management of contact center agents.

For example a contact center supervisor may collect the streams from all agents under their supervision for real time remote management of all aspects of an agent s progress. The media streams may be used to enable management conversations in between or during calls. Media streams may be used in a conference mode or a coaching mode such as a situation in which the called party can hear the agent and not the supervisor. One of ordinary skill in the art realizes that the media module may send media streams for communications purposes other than management.

The indicator module affects the predictive dialing algorithm s decisions by providing indicators. Indicators are user input that is collected through a user input device such as a keyboard keypad voice recognition and the like and sent to the implementation that is processing the predictive algorithm such as the initiation module . These indicators may then be used to affect the algorithm s decision about when a call is initiated. For example a user indicator called long call might be sent by an agent to indicate that the call is running longer than expected. Another example indicator may be almost done. Both of these examples may be factored into the predictive dialing algorithm to help an automatic dialing system determine when to begin initiation of new calls for a particular agent or a group of user terminals

Next the analysis module initiates a call status determination for each call that determines whether a person answers each call at the destination . For example the analysis module determines that the first call is ringing and that the second call has encountered a busy signal. In addition an agent may see through the user interface module that the initiation module has initiated two calls and the progress and status of those two calls.

At the same time that the analysis module initiates the call status determination the audio monitoring module sends audio information from the destination of the selected call to an agent at the first user terminal . In addition in one embodiment the audio transmission module also concurrently sends audio information from the agent to the person for the selected call during the call status determination. In one embodiment the audio modification module may lower the ringing call s audio during the ringing state of the call. The audio modification module may alternatively substitute the ringing as music if preferred by the agent. During this time the analysis module determines that a person is answering the call at the destination . The person at the destination says hello and the agent hears this greeting. The agent is then able to begin the call in a very natural manner.

While the agent is monitoring listening to the call the assignment module assigns the call to the agent in response to the call status determination determining that the person answered the call at the destination . Then the sending module sends call status information from the user terminal to a call controller .

Next in one embodiment the transferring module transfers a second call on a second communication line to a second user terminal in response to determining that the agent at the first user terminal is still engaged in the call and that a second agent is available at a second user terminal . Then the method ends . For example the agent at the first user terminal may still be engaged in conversation on the first call while an agent at a second user terminal may have just finished a call. Since the agent at the second user terminal is now ready the second call is transferred during the ringing phase. The second agent hears the last ring hears the hello and begins the call in a natural manner.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

