---

title: Methods and systems for treating acute heart failure by neuromodulation
abstract: Methods of treating acute heart failure in a patient in need thereof. Methods include inserting a therapy delivery device into a pulmonary artery of the patient and applying a therapy signal to autonomic cardiopulmonary fibers surrounding the pulmonary artery. The therapy signal affects heart contractility more than heart rate. Specifically, the application of the therapy signal increases heart contractility and treats the acute heart failure in the patient. The therapy signal can include electrical or chemical modulation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09480790&OS=09480790&RS=09480790
owner: The Cleveland Clinic Foundation
number: 09480790
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131120
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 654 525 filed on Oct. 18 2012 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 798 738 on Aug. 5 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 185 473 filed on Aug. 4 2008 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 818 501 on Aug. 26 2014 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 951 285 filed on Dec. 5 2007 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 873 021 filed on Dec. 6 2006 each of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 185 473 U.S. application Ser. No. 11 951 285 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 873 021 being incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. The present application is also related to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 222 766 filed on Sep. 12 2005 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to methods and systems for treating acute heart failure by electrically modulating autonomic cardiopulmonary fibers.

Diseases or injuries causing or resulting in acute heart failure are widespread. The goals of therapy in acute heart failure are often to correct the hemodynamic instability and address decompensation in order to increase patient mortality. One treatment option for acute heart failure is the administration of inotropic agents such as dopamine and dobutamine. However inotropic agents have both chronotropic and inotropic effects and characteristically increase heart contractility at the expense of significant increments in oxygen consumption secondary to elevations in heart rate. As a result although these inotropic agents increase myocardial contractility and improve hemodynamics clinical trials have consistently demonstrated excess mortality caused by cardiac arrhythmias and increase in the myocardium consumption.

As such there is a need for a method of selectively and locally treating acute heart failure and otherwise achieving hemodynamic control without causing untoward systemic effect.

The present invention provides methods for treating medical conditions by transvascular neuromodulation of a target site of an autonomic nervous system. The methods of the present invention for treating medical conditions encompass neuromodulation of any combination of one or more target sites of the autonomic nervous system. Non limiting examples of medical conditions that can be treated according to the present invention include cardiovascular medical conditions.

In an embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating acute heart failure in a patient in need thereof comprising inserting a delivery device into a pulmonary artery and positioning the delivery device at a pulmonary trunk of the pulmonary artery. The method also comprises applying a therapy signal to at least one sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber surrounding the pulmonary trunk to treat the acute heart failure. The at least one sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber affects heart contractility more than heart rate.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a system for treating acute heart failure comprising a delivery device for positioning in the pulmonary artery at the pulmonary trunk. The system further includes a controller in communication with the delivery device for enabling the delivery device to apply a therapy signal to at least one sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber surrounding the pulmonary trunk to treat acute heart failure. The at least one sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber affects heart contractility more than heart rate.

The present invention provides methods for treating medical conditions by transvascular neuromodulation of a target site of an autonomic nervous system. The methods of the present invention for treating medical conditions encompass neuromodulation of any combination of one or more target sites of the autonomic nervous system. Non limiting examples of medical conditions that can be treated according to the present invention include cardiovascular medical conditions.

With respect to treating cardiovascular medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the cardiovascular system such as for example the heart and aorta. Non limiting examples of cardiovascular conditions include post infarction rehabilitation shock hypovolemic septic neurogenic valvular disease heart failure angina microvascular ischemia myocardial contractility disorder cardiomyopathy hypertension including pulmonary hypertension and systemic hypertension orthopnea dyspenea orthostatic hypotension dysautonomia syncope vasovagal reflex carotid sinus hypersensitivity pericardial effusion heart failure and cardiac structural abnormalities such as septal defects and wall aneurysms. Non limiting examples of vessels into which therapy delivery devices according to the present invention are positioned to access autonomic target sites innervating components of the cardiovascular system are the carotid arteries aorta superior vena cava inferior vena cava pulmonary veins and arteries carotid arteries and subclavian arteries and veins. In a preferred embodiment a therapy delivery device is used in conjunction with a pulmonary artery catheter such as a Swan Ganz type pulmonary artery catheter to delivery transvascular neuromodulation via the pulmonary artery to an autonomic target site to treat a cardiovascular condition according to the present invention. Specifically in this preferred embodiment a therapy delivery device is housed within one of the multiple vessels of a pulmonary artery catheter.

The present invention provides systems and methods for treating acute heart failure also known as decompensated heart failure by modulating at least one sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber that affects heart contractility more than heart rate. In a preferred embodiment a plurality of sympathetic cardiopulmonary fibers is modulated that collectively affect heart contractility more than heart rate. The fibers can be modulated by chemical and or electrical modulation including ablation and the modulation includes stimulating and or inhibiting the fibers. In the case of chemical modulation bioactive agents may be used including neurotransmitter mimics neuropeptides hormones pro hormones antagonists agonists reuptake inhibitors or degrading enzymes thereof peptides proteins therapeutic agents amino acids nucleic acids stem cells or any combination thereof and may be delivered by a slow release matrix or drug pump.

According to the methods of the present invention a delivery device which can be an electrode in the case of electrical modulation or a drug delivery device e.g. a catheter in the case of chemical modulation is inserted into the pulmonary artery and positioned at a location within the pulmonary trunk such that activation of the delivery device at that location results in selective modulation of sympathetic cardiopulmonary fibers. Specifically the sympathetic cardiopulmonary fibers that are modulated collectively affect heart contractility more than heart rate. Preferably the delivery device is positioned at a site within the pulmonary artery such that activation of the delivery device results in the greatest effect on heart contractility and the least effect on heart rate and or oxygen consumption compared to activation of the delivery device at any other site in the pulmonary artery. In certain embodiments the effect on heart contractility is to increase heart contractility. In certain embodiments electrical modulation is provided in combination with chemical modulation. In such embodiments the present invention also provides systems that include electrical and chemical delivery devices.

The neuromodulation of the present invention is accomplished by applying a therapy signal such as an electrical and or chemical signal to the pulmonary trunk such as at least one of the anterior wall the posterior wall the superior wall and the lateral wall. The therapy signal is thereby applied to the sympathetic cardiopulmonary fibers or nerves surrounding the pulmonary trunk. These sympathetic fibers can include the right sympathetic cardiopulmonary nerves and the left sympathetic cardiopulmonary nerves as illustrated in . The right sympathetic cardiopulmonary nerves include the right dorsal medial cardiopulmonary nerve and the right dorsal lateral cardiopulmonary nerve . The left sympathetic cardiopulmonary nerves include the left ventral cardiopulmonary nerve the left dorsal medial cardiopulmonary nerve the left dorsal lateral cardiopulmonary nerve and the left stellate cardiopulmonary nerve .

The delivery device can be introduced by any route or means to access the pulmonary artery. For example the delivery device can be introduced through a large vein such as the internal jugular subclavian or femoral veins or an artery and can be threaded perhaps with the aid of fluoroscopy into the pulmonary artery and placed at the pulmonary trunk.

The present invention also provides systems for treating acute heart failure. In an embodiment the system includes a delivery device which can be an electrical and or chemical delivery device such as an electrode and or catheter for positioning in the pulmonary artery at the pulmonary trunk and a controller such as a pulse generator when an electrical delivery device is used and a drug pump when a chemical delivery device is used in communication with the delivery device for enabling the delivery device to apply a therapy signal to at least one sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber surrounding the pulmonary trunk to treat acute heart failure wherein said at least one sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber affects heart contractility more than heart rate. In certain embodiments the system further includes a sensor for measuring cardiac parameters and generating a sensor signal.

Frame is collapsible for fitting within a catheter lumen during insertion into the body. Specifically frame has a first collapsed configuration smaller than the diameter of lumen and when deployed a second radially expanded configuration designed to contact the vessel wall against which intraluminal electrode assembly is positioned. Frame is preferably fabricated from a super elastic material such as nitinol for example which allows frame to return to its expanded state when deployed from lumen and assume a collapsed state when retracted back into lumen . In a preferred embodiment the distal end of frame has an open stent like configuration preferably a plurality of diamond shapes connected to each other by connector creating a closed circular loop. Although electrodes can be mounted at any position on insulated conductor they are preferably mounted near frame .

In a preferred embodiment lumen is one lumen of a multi lumen pulmonary catheter as described in more detail in co pending application Ser. No. 11 222 774 filed on Sep. 12 2005.

Electrical delivery device is connected via a stimulation lead catheter to a controller not shown . The electrical delivery device may be placed temporarily in the pulmonary trunk adjacent to a sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber. The controller of an embodiment of a system of the present invention is used to operate and supply power to the delivery device and enable the delivery device to deliver a therapy signal to a sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber. The controller may be powered by a battery which can be rechargeable an external power supply or a fuel cell. The controller may also be integral with the delivery device such as a single stimulation lead power generator or a single catheter drug delivery pump . In the case of electrical modulation the controller may change the output to the electrode by way of polarity pulse width amplitude frequency voltage current intensity duration wavelength and or waveform. The controller may operate any number or combination of electrodes. In the case of chemical modulation the controller may change the dosage timing or other parameters of drug delivery. The controller may operate any number of combination of drug ports. The controller can be external to the patient s body for use by the attending physician to program the controller and to monitor its performance or internal to the patient s body.

In the case of electrical modulation the controller activates the electrical delivery device to initiate or adjust application of an electrical signal including terminating increasing decreasing or changing the rate or pattern of a pulsing parameter. The controller also enables an electrical delivery device to deliver an electrical signal that may be episodic continuous phasic in clusters intermittent upon demand by the patient or medical personnel or preprogrammed to respond to a sensor. Preferably the oscillating electrical signal is operated at a voltage between about 0.1 microvolts to about 20 V. More preferably the oscillating electrical signal is operated at a voltage between about 1 V to about 15 V. For microstimulation it is preferable to stimulate within the range of 0.1 microvolts to about 1 V. Preferably the electric signal source is operated at a frequency range between about 2 Hz to about 2500 Hz. More preferably the electric signal source is operated at a frequency range between about 2 Hz to about 200 Hz. Preferably the pulse width of the oscillating electrical signal is between about 10 microseconds to about 1 000 microseconds. More preferably the pulse width of the oscillating electrical signal is between about 50 microseconds to about 500 microseconds. Preferably the application of the oscillating electrical signal is monopolar when the electrode is monopolar bipolar when the electrode is bipolar and multipolar when the electrode is multipolar. The waveform may be for example biphasic square wave sine wave or other electrically safe and feasible combinations. The electrical signal may be applied to multiple target sites simultaneously or sequentially.

In the case of chemical modulation the controller can enable a drug port to deliver a bioactive agent to the target site. Where chemical and electrical modulation are both used the controller can also coordinate delivery of the bioactive agent with the electrical neuromodulation e.g. delivery of the bioactive agent prior to concurrent with or subsequent to electrical neuromodulation . The delivery of the bioactive agent maybe continuous intermittent chronic phasic or episodic.

An open loop or closed loop feedback mechanism may be used in conjunction with any of the methods of the present invention. In an open loop feedback mechanism a professional can monitor cardiac parameters of the patient and accordingly adjust the therapy signal applied to sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber. Non limiting examples of cardiac parameters monitored include arterial blood pressure central venous pressure capillary pressure systolic pressure variation arterial blood gases cardiac output systemic vascular resistance pulmonary artery wedge pressure and mixed venous oxygen saturation. Cardiac parameters can be monitored by an electrocardiogram invasive hemodynamics an echocardiogram or blood pressure measurement or other devices known in the art to measure cardiac function. Other parameters such as body temperature and respiratory rate can also be monitored and processed as part of the feedback mechanism.

In a closed loop feedback mechanism the cardiac parameters are processed by at least one sensor and the neuromodulation is continuously adjusted according to the output generated by the sensor. Specifically a sensor detects a cardiac parameter and generates a sensor signal. The sensor signal is processed by a sensor signal processor that provides a control signal to a signal generator. The signal generator in turn generates a response to the control signal by activating or adjusting the therapy signal applied by the delivery device to a sympathetic cardiopulmonary fiber. The control signal may be an indication to initiate terminate increase decrease or change the rate or pattern of a pulsing or dosing parameter of the neuromodulation and the response to the control signal can be the respective initiation termination increase decrease or change in rate or pattern of the respective pulsing or dosing parameter. The processing of closed loop feedback systems for electrical neuromodulation is described in more detail in respective U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 058 331 and 5 711 316 both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Closed loop electrical modulation according to the present invention can be achieved by a modified form of an implantable SOLETRA KINETRA RESTORE or SYNERGY signal generator available from Medtronic Minneapolis Minn. as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 353 762 the teaching of which is incorporated herein in its entirety a controller as described in or utilization of CIO DAS 08 and CIO DAC 16 I processing boards and an IBM compatible computer available from Measurement Computing Middleboro Mass. with Visual Basic software for programming of algorithms. Such controllers can be modified for external as opposed to implantable use. With reference to an illustration of a non limiting example of a controller comprising a microprocessor such as an MSP430 microprocessor from Texas Instruments Technology analog to digital converter such as AD7714 from Analog Devices Corp. pulse generator such as CD1877 from Harris Corporation pulse width control lead driver digital to analog converter such as MAX538 from Maxim Corporation power supply memory and communications port or telemetry chip are shown. Optionally a digital signal processor is used for signal conditioning and filtering. Input leads and and output leads and are also illustrated. Additional stimulation leads sensors and chemical delivery devices may be added to the controller as required. As a non limiting example inputs from sensors such as a pulmonary artery wedge pressure sensor are input to analog to digital converter . Microprocessor receiving the sensor inputs uses algorithms to analyze the cardiac parameter of the patient and using PID Fuzzy logic or other algorithms computes an output to pulse generator drivers and respectively to neuromodulate the target site where the delivery devices are placed. The output of analog to digital converter is connected to microprocessor through a peripheral bus including address data and control lines. Microprocessor processes the sensor data in different ways depending on the type of transducer in use. When the signal on the sensor indicates a cardiac parameter outside of threshold values for example reduced pulmonary artery wedge pressure programmed by the clinician and stored in a memory the therapy signal applied through output drivers and of the controller will be adjusted. The output voltage or current from the controller are then generated in an appropriately configured form voltage current frequency and applied to the one or more delivery devices placed at the target site for a prescribed time period to elevated the pulmonary artery wedge pressure. If the patient s pulmonary artery wedge pressure as monitored by the system is not outside of the normal threshold limits or if the controller output after it has timed out has resulted in a correction of the pulmonary artery wedge pressure to within a predetermined threshold range no further therapy signal is applied to the target site and the controller continues to monitor the patient via the sensors. A block diagram of an algorithm which may be used in the present invention is shown in .

Referring to suitably conditioned and converted sensor data can be input to the algorithm in block . The program can compute at least one value of at least one cardiac parameter such as for example pulmonary artery wedge pressure or cardiac output and compares the measured value of the cardiac parameter to a pre determined range of values which is determined in advance to be the desired therapeutic range of values. This range can be programmed into the microprocessor via the telemetry or communications port of the controller. The algorithm can compare and then can determine whether or not the measured value lies outside the pre determined range of values . If the measured cardiac parameter value is not outside the pre determined range of values the program can continue to monitor the sensors and reiterates the comparison part of the algorithm. If the measured cardiac parameter value is outside of the pre determined range of values a determination or comparison can be made as to whether the value is too high or too low compared with the pre determined range. If the cardiac parameter value is too high an adjustment to the delivery device can be made to lower the cardiac parameter value of the patient by calculating an output signal for the pulse generator or drug delivery device to deliver a sufficient amount of the pharmaceutical or electrical modulation to lower the cardiac parameter of the patient. The algorithm can continue to monitor the cardiac parameter following the adjustment. If the cardiac parameter value is too low then an adjustment to the delivery device can be made to raise the cardiac parameter value by calculating an output signal for the pulse generator or drug delivery device to deliver a sufficient amount of a pharmaceutical or electrical modulation to raise the cardiac parameter value of the patient. The algorithm can continue to monitor the cardiac parameter of the patient following the adjustment. The amount of adjustment made may be determined by proportional integral derivative algorithms of by implementation of Fuzzy logic rules. Of course the above described sensory system is just exemplary and other ways of processing sensory data can be utilized.

With respect to the control of specific electrical parameters the stimulus pulse frequency may be controlled by programming a value to a programmable frequency generator using the bus of the controller. The programmable frequency generator can provide an interrupt signal to the microprocessor through an interrupt line when each stimulus pulse is to be generated. The frequency generator may be implemented by model CDP1878 sold by Harris Corporation. The amplitude for each stimulus pulse may be programmed to a digital to analog converter using the controller s bus. The analog output can be conveyed through a conductor to an output driver circuit to control stimulus amplitude. The microprocessor of the controller may also program a pulse width control module using the bus. The pulse width control can provide an enabling pulse of duration equal to the pulse width via a conductor. Pulses with the selected characteristics can then be delivered from signal generator through a cable and lead to the target site or to a device such as a proportional valve or pump. The microprocessor can execute an algorithm to provide modulation of a target site with closed loop feedback control. For some types of sensors a microprocessor and analog to digital converter will not be necessary. The output from sensor can be filtered by an appropriate electronic filter in order to provide a control signal for signal generator. An example of such a filter is found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 259 387 Muscle Artifact Filter issued to Victor de Pinto on Nov. 9 1993 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Of course the specific electrical and or chemical parameters can be controlled in other ways as well.

Six open chest dogs were instrumented with a left ventricle conductance catheter and an aortic flow probe. Modified electrode catheters were placed inside the pulmonary artery under echocardiographic and fluoroscopic guidance in five dogs. In the last dog a stent based electrode as illustrated in was used. Stimulation was applied at 20 Hz 0.4 ms and 15 25 mA. The corresponding hemodynamic effects are reported as averages of 30 second periods of continuous recording.

Pressure variation in the left ventricle over time increased in all dogs. The average increment was 25.7 11.8 and the average of maximum increase variation was 28.3 8.9 . Emax was measured in the last animal showing a 45 increase. The average reduction of RR interval during stimulation was 3.3 10.4 .

Therefore electrical modulation via a pulmonary artery catheter can produce positive inotropic effects with minimal changes in heart rate.

Eight open chest dogs are instrumented with a left ventricle conductance catheter and an aortic flow probe. Modified electrode catheters are placed inside the pulmonary artery under echocardiographic and fluoroscopic guidance in five dogs. In three dogs a stent based electrode as illustrated in is used. Stimulation is applied at 20 Hz 0.4 ms and 15 25 mA. The corresponding hemodynamic effects are reported as averages of 30 second periods of continuous recording.

The foregoing description and examples has been set forth merely to illustrate the invention and are not intended as being limiting. Each of the disclosed aspects and embodiments of the present invention may be considered individually or in combination with other aspects embodiments and variations of the invention. In addition unless otherwise specified none of the steps of the methods of the present invention are confined to any particular order of performance. Modifications of the disclosed embodiments incorporating the spirit and substance of the invention may occur to persons skilled in the art and such modifications are within the scope of the present invention. Furthermore all references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

