---

title: Systems and methods for enhanced conference session interaction
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable storage media for enhancing presenter and participant interaction in a presentation. A system configured to practice the method can receive, from a viewer of an electronic presentation, a submission of a question and a selection of a communication mode for the question. The system can identify a portion of the presentation to which the question is directed, and update the portion of the electronic presentation to incorporate the question based on the communication mode. The electronic presentation can be a slide show, such as a PowerPoint™ presentation. The system can optionally notify a presenter in the electronic presentation that the portion has been updated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09154531&OS=09154531&RS=09154531
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09154531
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130618
---
The present disclosure relates to presentations and more specifically to enhancing presenter and participant interactions in presentations.

In a typical CEO type audio broadcast participants are all generally muted to avoid distractions and background noise and to allow the presenter to speak uninterrupted. Participants listening in on phones computers or other device need to wait until the end of the presentation to be able to ask questions rather than asking them at the point of confusion or interest. This delay may cause participants to forget their questions or may lead to additional confusion as foundational principles upon which later points are based go misunderstood. However in commercially available web conferencing apps participants may be allowed to type their questions using a text chat. There is no mechanism available to have participants link their questions to specific charts or portions of the broadcast. Further there is no notification mechanism to the presenter that there may be a lot of questions on a specific part of the presentation which could be more efficiently addressed during the initial discussion of that specific part rather than later on in the presentation or after the main presentation. Existing conferencing solutions also do not provide an interactive way to maintain a question and answer session for offline conference recordings.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

This framework enables participants of audio or web conferences to submit their questions at the appropriate time without disturbing the ongoing conference. Participants in audio conferences can trigger a question submission by pressing some DTMF digits or a keyboard combination on a computer or clicking a button to enable the audio conferencing system to record the question. Participants on web conferencing can click on a certain slide to ask the relevant questions either through chat or record both audio and video. The system receives the question and can link the question to a certain slide of the presentation or to a particular portion of a slide such as a chart bullet point or image. The participant device can handle receiving the question and submit it to a presentation server so the course of the conference is not disturbed. The system can then highlight these chat audio or video questions in a non intrusive manner to the speaker to address this at the opportune time. This approach also operates on recorded conferences as well as live conferences where the recordings are updated to enable participants asking questions and their corresponding responses by the presenter. Thus as additional answers and questions are contributed to a recorded conference the conference becomes a living growing conference that can be updated dynamically to take in to account new questions and new or updated answers and annotations. Users can subscribe to the recorded conference to receive notifications of the changes so that users do not need to view the entire recordings over and over again.

This approach allows participants to ask questions at the time of confusion or interest. Participants can use a chat audio or video in web conferencing to interact in a broadcast type sessions. The system can according to information provided by the presenter auto answer questions based on presenter notes or attached documents associated with the conference.

Disclosed herein are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for enhancing presenter and participant interaction in a presentation. The electronic presentation can be a slide show such as a PowerPoint presentation. A system configured to practice the method can receive from a viewer of an electronic presentation a submission of a question and a selection of a communication mode for the question. The communication mode can be at least one of a text based chat audio or video or some other remote presence application. The system can identify a portion of the presentation to which the question is directed and update the portion of the electronic presentation to incorporate the question based on the communication mode. The system can update the portion of the electronic presentation by incorporating the question into at least one of a viewer interface for the electronic presentation or a presenter interface for the electronic presentation. The system can optionally notify a presenter in the electronic presentation that the portion has been updated. The presenter can provide a response to the question which the system can insert in the portion of the electronic presentation.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The presentation system disclosed herein provides a way for participants to patch an audio video or a note to a live or recorded conference with the reference to slide number or page number or to some other specific content in the conference or presentation. The system can notify the presenter in real time as the presentation is on going or offline for a previously recorded presentation. The system can notify the presenter of the details like Participant X asked a question on slide 2. The presenter can also patch the audio or a note to the conference recording while replying back to questions. The presentation system can also provide automatic replies based on moderator notes previously asked questions and corresponding answers of the same or a similar or related presentation and additional document attached in conference. Using attached documents and presenter notes the system can match keywords asked in questions and update the presentation automatically with corresponding answers or resources. The questions asked can be answered automatically just for the asker or can be provided to all of the other participants or a subset thereof. The subset can be selected based on one or more of the content of the question content of the answer the participant asking the question or the presenter. The system can also notify the presenter of automatic replies so he can change or modify the reply if necessary. In a normal audio or video conference participants can use DTMF keys to patch their audio or video questions at any time in a conference. The server can store this patch with a timestamp indicating when question was asked and send notification to the presenter. The flow charts in describe the participant and presenter or moderator work flows.

Having disclosed some basic system components and concepts the disclosure now turns to the exemplary method embodiment shown in . For the sake of clarity the method is discussed in terms of an exemplary system as shown in configured to practice the method. The steps outlined herein are exemplary and can be implemented in any combination or order thereof including combinations that exclude add or modify certain steps. A system configured to practice the method can receive from a viewer of an electronic presentation a submission of a question and a selection of a communication mode for the question and present the question to the presenter such as by updating a presenter view of the presentation . The communication mode can be at least one of a text based chat audio or video or some other remote presence application. The system can identify a portion of the presentation to which the question is directed and update the portion of the electronic presentation to incorporate the question based on the communication mode. The system can update the portion of the electronic presentation by incorporating the question into at least one of a viewer interface for the electronic presentation or a presenter interface for the electronic presentation. The system can optionally notify a presenter in the electronic presentation that the portion has been updated. The presenter can provide a response to the question which the system can insert in the portion of the electronic presentation .

A brief description of a basic general purpose system or computing device in which can be employed to practice the concepts is disclosed herein. With reference to FIG. an exemplary system includes a general purpose computing device including a processing unit CPU or processor and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM to the processor . The system can include a cache of high speed memory connected directly with in close proximity to or integrated as part of the processor . The system copies data from the memory and or the storage device to the cache for quick access by the processor . In this way the cache provides a performance boost that avoids processor delays while waiting for data. These and other modules can control or be configured to control the processor to perform various actions. Other system memory may be available for use as well. The memory can include multiple different types of memory with different performance characteristics. It can be appreciated that the disclosure may operate on a computing device with more than one processor or on a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability. The processor can include any general purpose processor and a hardware module or software module such as module 1 module 2 and module 3 stored in storage device configured to control the processor as well as a special purpose processor where software instructions are incorporated into the actual processor design. The processor may essentially be a completely self contained computing system containing multiple cores or processors a bus memory controller cache etc. A multi core processor may be symmetric or asymmetric.

The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in ROM or the like may provide the basic routine that helps to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up. The computing device further includes storage devices such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive or the like. The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device is connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The drives and the associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function includes the software component stored in a non transitory computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus display and so forth to carry out the function. The basic components are known to those of skill in the art and appropriate variations are contemplated depending on the type of device such as whether the device is a small handheld computing device a desktop computer or a computer server.

Although the exemplary embodiment described herein employs the hard disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. Non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device represents any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface generally governs and manages the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

For clarity of explanation the illustrative system embodiment is presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks labeled as a processor or processor . The functions these blocks represent may be provided through the use of either shared or dedicated hardware including but not limited to hardware capable of executing software and hardware such as a processor that is purpose built to operate as an equivalent to software executing on a general purpose processor. For example the functions of one or more processors presented in may be provided by a single shared processor or multiple processors. Use of the term processor should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software. Illustrative embodiments may include microprocessor and or digital signal processor DSP hardware read only memory ROM for storing software performing the operations discussed below and random access memory RAM for storing results. Very large scale integration VLSI hardware embodiments as well as custom VLSI circuitry in combination with a general purpose DSP circuit may also be provided.

The logical operations of the various embodiments are implemented as 1 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a general use computer 2 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a specific use programmable circuit and or 3 interconnected machine modules or program engines within the programmable circuits. The system shown in can practice all or part of the recited methods can be a part of the recited systems and or can operate according to instructions in the recited non transitory computer readable storage media. Such logical operations can be implemented as modules configured to control the processor to perform particular functions according to the programming of the module. For example illustrates three modules Mod1 Mod2 and Mod3 which are modules configured to control the processor . These modules may be stored on the storage device and loaded into RAM or memory at runtime or may be stored as would be known in the art in other computer readable memory locations.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non transitory computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures objects and the functions inherent in the design of special purpose processors etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. For example the principles herein apply to any graphical representation of open communication lines. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

