---

title: Touch panel, touch screen apparatus, and method of driving the touch panel
abstract: A touch panel configured to drive a liquid crystal according to a voltage difference between first and second electrodes. The touch panel includes at least one display unit configured to generate an image voltage and apply the image voltage to the first electrode. The image voltage corresponds to image data to be displayed in response to activation of a display gate line. The touch panel further includes at least one sensing unit configured to sense, in response to activation of a sensor gate line, a voltage variation of the second electrode to determine whether a finger capacitance is generated by a physical touch on the touch panel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09400578&OS=09400578&RS=09400578
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09400578
owner_city: Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20130123
---
This application claims the benefit of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2012 0081438 filed on Jul. 25 2012 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

At least one example embodiment relates to touch panels touch screen apparatuses and or methods of driving the same and more particularly to touch panels and or touch screen apparatuses with improved sensing accuracy and or methods of adaptively driving the touch panels.

As demand for high performance and miniature touch panels increases touch panels have become highly integrated and their design rules have been decreased. Thus touch panels and touch screen apparatuses with improved sensing accuracy and methods of adaptively driving the touch panels are desired.

Provided are touch panels and or touch screen apparatuses with improved sensing accuracy and methods of adaptively driving the touch panels.

Additional aspects will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the example embodiments.

According to at least one example embodiment a touch panel that drives a liquid crystal according to a voltage difference between first and second electrodes includes at least one display unit configured to generate an image voltage and apply the image voltage to the first electrode. The image voltage corresponds to image data to be displayed in response to activation of a display gate line. The touch panel further includes at least one sensing unit configured to sense in response to activation of a sensor gate line a voltage variation of the second electrode to determine whether a finger capacitance is generated by a physical touch on the touch panel.

According to at least one example embodiment the first electrode is a pixel electrode and the second electrode is a common electrode.

According to at least one example embodiment the at least one display unit is a plurality of display units and the second electrode is shared by a pair of display units from among the plurality of display units.

According to at least one example embodiment the at least one display unit is a plurality of display units and the at least one sensing unit is a plurality of sensing units and each of the sensing units is disposed in a corresponding one of the display units.

According to at least one example embodiment the first and second electrodes are substantially parallel to an orientation of a director axis of the liquid crystal.

According to at least one example embodiment the voltage variation of the second electrode corresponds to a ratio of a coupling capacitance between the second electrode and the sensor gate line with respect to the finger capacitance.

According to at least one example embodiment the at least one display unit and the at least one sensing unit are formed on a same array.

According to at least one example embodiment the at least one sensing unit includes a sensing transistor configured to generate a sensing current corresponding to the voltage variation of the second electrode. The sensing transistor has a gate connected to the second electrode. The sensing unit includes a selection transistor configured to supply the sensing current of the sensing transistor to a sensing line if the sensor gate line is activated. The selection transistor has an end connected to an end of the sensing transistor and a gate connected to the sensor gate line. The sensing unit includes at least one reset transistor configured to reset the second electrode if the display gate line is activated and the sensor gate line is deactivated. The at least one reset transistor has a gate connected to the display gate line an end connected to the second electrode and an other end connected to the sensor gate line.

According to at least one example embodiment the sensing current of the sensing transistor corresponds to a ratio of a coupling capacitance between the first electrode and the sensor gate line with respect to the finger capacitance.

According to at least one example embodiment an other end of the sensing transistor is connected to the sensor gate line.

According to at least one example embodiment the at least one display unit is a plurality of display units and the at least one sensing unit is disposed between two adjacent display units from among the plurality of display units.

According to at least one example embodiment the at least one reset transistor includes a first reset transistor having a gate connected to a display gate line of one of the two adjacent display units and a second reset transistor having a gate connected to a display gate line of the other of the two adjacent display units.

According to at least one example embodiment further including a display resetting unit configured to reset the second electrode if the display gate line is activated after the at least one sensing unit performs sensing.

According to at least one example embodiment while the sensor gate line is activated the first electrode floats so that a voltage difference between the first and second electrodes used in driving the liquid crystal is maintained.

According to at least one example embodiment the first electrode and the second electrode are adjacent to one another and in a same plane.

According to at least one example embodiment the director axis of the liquid crystal is substantially parallel to a touching surface of the touch panel.

According to at least one example embodiment a touch screen apparatus includes a touch panel configured to drive a liquid crystal according to a voltage difference between first and second electrodes. The touch panel includes a display unit configured to generate an image voltage and apply the image voltage to the first electrode. The image voltage corresponds to image data to be displayed in response to activation of a display gate line. The touch panel includes a sensing unit configured to sense in response to activation of a sensor gate line a voltage variation of the second electrode to determine whether a finger capacitance is generated by a physical touch on the touch panel. The touch screen apparatus further includes a gate driver configured to apply a gate voltage to the display gate line and the sensor gate line of the touch panel. The touch screen apparatus further includes a signal output unit configured to output a signal corresponding to a received sensing value of the sensing unit of the touch panel.

According to at least one example embodiment the first electrode is a pixel electrode and the second electrode is a common electrode.

According to at least one example embodiment the first and second electrodes are substantially parallel to an orientation of a director axis of the liquid crystal.

According to at least one example embodiment the sensing unit includes a sensing transistor configured to generate a sensing current corresponding to the voltage variation of the second electrode. The sensing transistor has a gate connected to the second electrode. The sensing unit further includes a selection transistor configured to supply the sensing current of the sensing transistor to a sensing line if the sensor gate line is activated. The selection transistor has an end connected to an end of the sensing transistor and a gate connected to the sensor gate line. The sensing unit further includes a reset transistor configured to reset the second electrode if the display gate line is activated and the sensor gate line is deactivated. The reset transistor has a gate connected to the display gate line an end connected to the second electrode and an other end connected to the sensor gate line.

According to at least one example embodiment a method of driving a touch panel whereby a liquid crystal is driven according to a voltage difference between first and second electrodes includes generating an image voltage to be displayed in response to activation of a first display gate line. The method further includes applying the image voltage to the first electrode. The method further includes sensing in response to activation of a sensor gate line a voltage variation of the second electrode to determine whether a finger capacitance is generated by a physical touch on the touch panel.

According to at least one example embodiment after the sensing the method further includes resetting the second electrode in response to activation of a second display gate line.

Example embodiments will be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings. The example embodiments may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to those set forth herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete. In at least some example embodiments well known device structures and well known technologies will not be specifically described in order to avoid ambiguous interpretation.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected to or coupled to another element it can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected to or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components and or sections these elements components and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component or section from another element component or section. Thus a first element component or section discussed below could be termed a second element component or section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated components steps operations and or elements but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other components steps operations elements and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which these example embodiments belong. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Spatially relative terms such as below beneath lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe the relationship of one element or feature to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the exemplary term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

Referring to the touch panel TP according to at least one example embodiment includes a display unit DPU and a sensing unit SENU. The display unit DPU applies an image voltage Vto a first electrode ELT in response to activation of a display gate line DGL and drives a liquid crystal according to a voltage difference Vbetween the first electrode ELT and a second electrode ELT. Charges corresponding to the voltage difference Vbetween the first electrode ELT and the second electrode ELT are charged in a storage capacitor of the display unit DPU that will be described below.

The first electrode ELT may be a pixel electrode and the second electrode ELT may be a common electrode. As will be described below each pixel of the display unit DPU may include a transistor not shown that is turned on in response to activation of the display gate line DGL and applies the image voltage Vimg to the first electrode ELT. The image voltage Vis a voltage corresponding to image data IDTA applied to a source line not shown to which one end of a transistor is connected so as to display the image data IDTA.

A common voltage or a reference voltage may be applied to the second electrode ELT. A twisting degree of the liquid crystal varies according to the voltage difference Vbetween the first electrode ELT and the second electrode ELT and a transmission degree of a backlight varies according to a twist difference in the liquid crystal. Thus the display unit DPU of the touch panel TP may display the image data IDTA.

The sensing unit SENU senses whether a finger capacitance Cis generated by a physical touch on the touch panel TP. The sensing unit SENU may sense the finger capacitance Cfrom a voltage variation of the second electrode ELT in response to activation of a sensor gate line SGL. The finger capacitance Cis a parasitic capacitance that is formed by a voltage difference between a finger that is a conductor and the second electrode ELT due to the physical touch. A value sensed by the sensing unit SENU is output to a sensing line SLIN see as a sensing current I. Details of a structure and an operation of the sensing unit SENU will be described below.

Referring to the touch panel TP according to at least one example embodiment may include the display unit DPU pixel and the sensing unit SENU for sensing touch touch function which are disposed on the same cell CL between glasses GL and GL between polarizers PL and PL. This type in which a pixel for display and a circuit for sensing are disposed on the same layer or array may be referred to as an in cell type. The in cell type touch panel TP is shown in . Thus production cost may be reduced and a process of manufacturing the touch panel TP may be simplified compared to a case where a touch pad TL sensing unit SENU is disposed separately from display pixels display unit DPU as shown in . Furthermore the touch panel TP according to at least one example embodiment is implemented as an in cell type and thus the thickness of the touch panel TP may be reduced.

When the touch panel TP according to at least one example embodiment includes the display unit DPU and the sensing unit SENU that are disposed on the same layer as in the in cell type an aperture ratio may be decreased due to the sensing unit SENU. For example the touch panel TP according to the may be implemented as an in cell type in which first and second electrodes are disposed as shown in so as to mitigate or alternatively minimize a reduction in the aperture ratio.

Referring to and the first electrode ELT and the second electrode ELT of the touch panel TP may be formed in a first direction of a liquid crystal LC i.e. the first and second electrodes ELT and ELT are substantially parallel to an orientation of a director axis of the liquid crystal molecules and the director axis of the liquid crystal may be substantially parallel to a touching surface of the touch panel TP . For example the first electrode ELT and the second electrode ELT may be formed adjacent to one another and in a same plane e.g. a horizontal plane . As described above the touch panel TP may use the second electrode ELT as a sensing electrode SENfor determining whether a touch is performed on the touch panel TP see . In this case a reduction in the aperture ratio may be mitigated or alternatively prevented .

As illustrated in related art when the first electrode ELT and the second electrode ELT are disposed in first and second directions of the liquid crystal LC the aperture ratio may be reduced because the area of the sensing electrode SENis to be increased due to an interference effect caused between the first electrode ELT and the second electrode ELT and the sensing electrode SEN

The touch panel TP may be driven by a plane line switching PLS method that may obtain a wide viewing angle when including the first electrode ELT and the second electrode ELT in the structure of . However example embodiments are not limited thereto. For example the touch panel TP may be implemented with a panel that is driven by an in plane switching IPS method.

Hereinafter a structure and an operation of the sensing unit SENU of the touch panel TP of for performing accurate sensing will be described.

Referring to the sensing unit SENU may include a sensing transistor SENT a selection transistor SELT and a reset transistor REST. A gate of the sensing transistor SENT is connected to the second electrode ELT and an end of the sensing transistor SENT is connected to an end of the selection transistor SELT. A gate of the selection transistor SELT is connected to a gate line GLIN an end of the selection transistor SELT is connected to an end of the sensing transistor SENT and the other end of the selection transistor SELT is connected to a sensing line SLIN. A gate of the reset transistor REST is connected to a gate line GLIN an end of the reset transistor REST is connected to the second electrode ELT and the other end of the reset transistor REST is connected to a gate line GLIN.

As described above the second electrode ELT may be a common electrode. The gate line GLINmay be the sensor gate line SGL of and the gate line GLINmay be the display gate line DGL of . Thus the selection transistor SELT is gated by activation of the sensor gate line SGL and supplies a sensing current Ithat is generated by the sensing transistor SENT and corresponds to a voltage variation Vbetween the second electrode ELT and the sensing line SLIN.

The voltage variation Vof the second electrode ELT may correspond to a rate of a coupling capacitance Cbetween the second electrode ELT and the sensor gate line SGL with respect to the finger capacitance C. For example when the finger capacitance Cis not formed that is when no touch occurs the second electrode ELT may have a voltage at the same level as a voltage applied to the sensor gate line SGL. However when the finger capacitance Cis formed for example when the finger capacitance Cis the same as the coupling capacitance C the second electrode ELT may have a voltage at a level corresponding to about half of the voltage applied to the sensor gate line SGL. When the sensing transistor SENT is turned on the sensing transistor SENT may generate the sensing current Ias a current amount corresponding to the ratio of the coupling capacitance Cwith respect to the finger capacitance C.

After a sensing operation of a touch is performed in response to activation of the sensor gate line SGL the second electrode ELT is reset in response to deactivation of the sensor gate line SGL and activation of the display gate line DGL. For example the reset transistor REST may reset the second electrode ELT with a common voltage.

Subsequently referring to the other end of the sensing transistor SENT may be connected to the sensor gate line SGL together with the other end of the reset transistor REST. In this way as the other end of the sensing transistor SENT is shared with another transistor a parasitic capacitance that may occur according to a change of the finger capacitance Cmay be reduced.

Referring to gates G G and G of the reset transistor REST the sensing transistor SENT and the selection transistor SELT are formed on glass and an active region Active is formed to be insulated from each of the gates G G and G by an insulator. The active region Active may be electrically connected to source and drain electrodes S and D and the like. An end S of the reset transistor REST is connected to the second electrode ELT. A gate G of the sensing transistor SENT is connected to the second electrode ELT and an end D of the sensing transistor SENT is connected to an end S of the selection transistor SELT. Although not shown in the gate G and the other end D of the reset transistor REST the other end S of the sensing transistor SENT and the gate G and the other end D of the selection transistor SELT may be connected to the gate line GLINor GLIN or the sensing line SLIN illustrated in via a contact not shown .

As described previously the coupling capacitance Cmay be formed by the second electrode ELT and the source and drain electrodes S and D and a physical touch may be sensed if the finger capacitance Cis generated.

Referring to the sensing unit SENU of the touch panel TP may be provided in each of two display units DPU and DPU that share the second electrode ELT. Although illustrates only part of a display pixel DPIX of each of the display units DPU and DPU additional display pixels may be included in each of the display units DPU and DPU.

The display unit DPU is activated by the display gate line DGL as described previously and applies the image voltage Vcorresponding to the image data IDTA transmitted via a source line SOUL to the first electrode ELT. The source line SOUL may be disposed in units of three lines R G and B. Although not shown in the first electrode ELT may be connected to a drain of a switching transistor ST of the display unit DPU. A voltage difference Vbetween the first electrode ELT and the second electrode ELT causes a variation of a cell capacitance Cso that the liquid crystal is driven in response to the image voltage V. When the second electrode ELT is a common electrode a common voltage Vis applied to the second electrode ELT. A storage capacitor Cof the display unit DPU charged in response to the image voltage V.

A first display gate line DGL and a second display gate line DGL are sequentially activated and the first display unit DPU and the second display unit DPU drive the liquid crystal sequentially so that a first sensor gate line SGL is activated. As the sensor gate line SGL is activated the display gate line DGL is deactivated and the first electrode ELT is floated. The liquid crystal may be maintained in a state e.g. a voltage of the storage capacitor Cof the second display unit DPU to be driven by the second display unit DPU until the next display gate line third display gate line DGL is activated.

When the first sensor gate line SGL is activated as described above the voltage variation Vof the second electrode ELT caused by the generated finger capacitance Cis sensed with the sensing current I. Although illustrates only part of a sensing pixel SPIX of a first sensing unit SENU additional sensing pixels may be included in the first sensing unit SENU.

In a gate voltage of the sensing transistor SENT of a second sensing unit SENU may have a first level L when the finger capacitance Cis formed and the gate voltage of the sensing transistor SENT of the second sensing unit SENU may have a second level L when the finger capacitance Cis not formed.

Each of the first reset transistor REST and the second reset transistor REST of the first sensing unit SENU resets the second electrode ELT before and after the sensing operation of the first sensing unit SENU is performed. For example each of the first reset transistor REST and the second reset transistor REST may reset the second electrode ELT with a common voltage Vcom.

After the first sensor gate line SGL is deactivated a third display gate line DGL is activated and the above described display and sensing operations are repeatedly performed. In the second sensing unit SENU is not shown for convenience.

In addition the sensing unit may not be shared by two or more display units. illustrate a structure and an operation of the touch panel TP of according to at least one example embodiment. As illustrated in a sensing unit may be disposed in each display unit. When a sensing unit is disposed in each display unit the sensing unit may be set according to a required touch sensitivity and the size of the display pixel.

Referring to the touch screen apparatus THCA may include a gate driver GDRV and a source driver SDRV that respectively apply a gate voltage Vand a source voltage Vto the touch panel TP illustrated in and a signal output unit SOUT that outputs a signal data corresponding to a received sensing value Isensed by the touch panel TP.

Referring to the method of driving a touch panel includes driving a liquid crystal according to a voltage difference between first and second electrodes by applying an image voltage to the first electrode in response to activation of a display gate line S and sensing from a voltage variation of the second electrode S whether a finger capacitance is generated by physical touch on the touch panel. The method may further include resetting the second electrode before and after the sensing operation S is performed. The second electrode may be a common electrode as described above.

Exemplary embodiments have been described above. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that modifications that do not depart from the spirit and technical scope of the example embodiments are encompassed by this application.

For example in the first sensing unit SENU may further include a second reset transistor REST together with a first reset transistor REST that resets the second electrode ELT before the sensing operation is performed so that the second reset transistor REST may sense the second electrode ELT when a display gate line is activated after the sensing operation is performed. However example embodiments are not limited thereto.

As described above in a touch panel a touch screen apparatus and a method of adaptively driving the touch panel according to one or more example embodiments a particular electrode is used as a sensing electrode without disposing an additional sensing electrode on an in cell type touch panel so that a reduction in aperture ratio may be mitigated or alternatively minimized and sensing accuracy can be improved.

It should be understood that the exemplary embodiments described therein should be considered in a descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Descriptions of features or aspects within each example embodiment should typically be considered as available for other similar features or aspects in other embodiments.

