---

title: Association of a portable scanner with input/output and storage devices
abstract: A device identifier is scanned with a portable scanner and communicated to a service provider. The service provider associates the device with the portable scanner. Information is scanned from a printed source and communicated to the service provider and subsequent information is received in response at a device identified by the device identifier. In some embodiments, a communication session identifier is scanned with a portable scanner and communicated to the service provider rather than (or in cooperation with) the device identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09030699&OS=09030699&RS=09030699
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09030699
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130813
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of the following each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 004 637 filed on Dec. 3 2004 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 961 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR INITIATING APPLICATION PROCESSES BY DATA CAPTURE FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 093 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled DETERMINING ACTIONS INVOLVING CAPTURED INFORMATION AND ELECTRONIC CONTENT ASSOCIATED WITH RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 038 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled CONTENT ACCESS WITH HANDHELD DOCUMENT DATA CAPTURE DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 014 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled SEARCH ENGINES AND SYSTEMS WITH HANDHELD DOCUMENT DATA CAPTURE DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 103 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled TRIGGERING ACTIONS IN RESPONSE TO OPTICALLY OR ACOUSTICALLY CAPTURING KEYWORDS FROM A RENDERED DOCUMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 043 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled SEARCHING AND ACCESSING DOCUMENTS ON PRIVATE NETWORKS FOR USE WITH CAPTURES FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 981 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled INFORMATION GATHERING SYSTEM AND METHOD U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 089 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled DOCUMENT ENHANCEMENT SYSTEM AND METHOD U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 835 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled PUBLISHING TECHNIQUES FOR ADDING VALUE TO A RENDERED DOCUMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 016 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled ARCHIVE OF TEXT CAPTURES FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 828 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled ADDING INFORMATION OR FUNCTIONALITY TO A RENDERED DOCUMENT VIA ASSOCIATION WITH AN ELECTRONIC COUNTERPART U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 833 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled AGGREGATE ANALYSIS OF TEXT CAPTURES PERFORMED BY MULTIPLE USERS FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 836 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled ESTABLISHING AN INTERACTIVE ENVIRONMENT FOR RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 042 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled DATA CAPTURE FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS USING HANDHELD DEVICE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 096 704 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled CAPTURING TEXT FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS USING SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 110 353 filed Apr. 19 2005 entitled PROCESSING TECHNIQUES FOR VISUAL CAPTURE DATA FROM A RENDERED DOCUMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 131 945 filed May 17 2005 entitled PROCESSING TECHNIQUES FOR TEXT CAPTURE FROM A RENDERED DOCUMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 185 908 filed Jul. 19 2005 entitled AUTOMATIC MODIFICATION OF WEB PAGES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 208 408 filed Aug. 18 2005 entitled SCANNER HAVING CONNECTED AND UNCONNECTED OPERATIONAL BEHAVIORS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 208 457 filed Aug. 18 2005 entitled LOCATING ELECTRONIC INSTANCES OF DOCUMENTS BASED ON RENDERED INSTANCES DOCUMENT FRAGMENT DIGEST GENERATION AND DIGEST BASED DOCUMENT FRAGMENT DETERMINATION U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 208 458 filed Aug. 18 2005 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR DATA GATHERING IN A DIGITAL AND HARD COPY DOCUMENT ENVIRONMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 208 461 filed Aug. 18 2005 entitled APPLYING SCANNED INFORMATION TO IDENTIFY CONTENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 209 333 filed Aug. 23 2005 entitled A PORTABLE SCANNING DEVICE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 210 260 filed Aug. 23 2005 entitled A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CHARACTER RECOGNITION U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 236 440 filed Sep. 27 2005 entitled SECURE DATA GATHERING FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 236 330 filed Sep. 27 2005 entitled HANDHELD DEVICE FOR CAPTURING TEXT FROM BOTH A DOCUMENT PRINTED ON PAPER AND A DOCUMENT DISPLAYED ON A DYNAMIC DISPLAY DEVICE International Patent Application No. PCT US05 11533 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CHARACTER RECOGNITION International patent application Ser. No. PCT US05 13586 filed Apr. 6 2005 entitled SCANNING APPARATUS AND RELATED TECHNIQUES International patent application Ser. No. PCT US05 12510 filed Apr. 12 2005 entitled ADDING VALUE TO A RENDERED DOCUMENT.

This application claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety the following U.S. Provisional Patent Application Application No. 60 657 309 filed on Feb. 28 2005.

This application incorporates by reference in their entirety the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Application No. 60 604 103 filed on Aug. 23 2004 Application No. 60 604 098 filed on Aug. 23 2004 Application No. 60 604 100 filed on Aug. 23 2004 Application No. 60 604 102 filed on Aug. 23 2004 Application No. 60 605 229 filed on Aug. 27 2004 Application No. 60 605 105 filed on Aug. 27 2004 Application No. 60 563 520 filed on Apr. 19 2004 Application No. 60 563 485 filed on Apr. 19 2004 Application No. 60 564 688 filed on Apr. 23 2004 Application No. 60 564 846 filed on Apr. 23 2004 Application No. 60 566 667 filed on Apr. 30 2004 Application No. 60 571 381 filed on May 14 2004 Application No. 60 571 560 filed on May 14 2004 Application No. 60 571 715 filed on May 17 2004 Application No. 60 589 203 filed on Jul. 19 2004 Application No. 60 589 201 filed on Jul. 19 2004 Application No. 60 589 202 filed on Jul. 19 2004 Application No. 60 598 821 filed on Aug. 2 2004 Application No. 60 602 956 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 925 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 947 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 897 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 896 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 930 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 898 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 603 466 filed on Aug. 19 2004 Application No. 60 603 082 filed on Aug. 19 2004 Application No. 60 603 081 filed on Aug. 19 2004 Application No. 60 603 498 filed on Aug. 20 2004 Application No. 60 603 358 filed on Aug. 20 2004 Application No. 60 613 243 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 628 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 632 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 589 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 242 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 602 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 340 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 634 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 461 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 455 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 460 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 400 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 456 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 341 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 361 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 454 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 339 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 633 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 615 378 filed on Oct. 1 2004 Application No. 60 615 112 filed on Oct. 1 2004 Application No. 60 615 538 filed on Oct. 1 2004 Application No. 60 617 122 filed on Oct. 7 2004 Application No. 60 622 906 filed on Oct. 28 2004 Application No. 60 633 452 filed on Dec. 6 2004 Application No. 60 633 678 filed on Dec. 6 2004 Application No. 60 633 486 filed on Dec. 6 2004 Application No. 60 633 453 filed on Dec. 6 2004 Application No. 60 634 627 filed on Dec. 9 2004 Application No. 60 634 739 filed on Dec. 9 2004 Application No. 60 647 684 filed on Jan. 26 2005 Application No. 60 648 746 filed on Jan. 31 2005 Application No. 60 653 372 filed on Feb. 15 2005 Application No. 60 653 663 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 653 669 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 653 899 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 653 679 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 653 847 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 654 379 filed on Feb. 17 2005 Application No. 60 654 368 filed on Feb. 18 2005 Application No. 60 654 326 filed on Feb. 18 2005 Application No. 60 654 196 filed on Feb. 18 2005 Application No. 60 655 279 filed on Feb. 22 2005 Application No. 60 655 280 filed on Feb. 22 2005 Application No. 60 655 987 filed on Feb. 22 2005 Application No. 60 655 697 filed on Feb. 22 2005 Application No. 60 655 281 filed on Feb. 22 2005.

The present disclosure relates to scanners and more particularly to content retrieval that results from scanning.

A proliferation of portable scanning devices enables many new applications involving the interaction of the printed and digital world. However the portability of such devices necessarily involves compromises on the capabilities inherent therein.

The following summary is intended to highlight and introduce some aspects of the disclosed embodiments but not to limit the scope of the invention. Thereafter a detailed description of illustrated embodiments is presented which will permit one skilled in the relevant art to make and use aspects of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art may obtain a full appreciation of aspects of the invention from the subsequent detailed description read together with the figures and from the claims which follow the detailed description .

In some embodiments a device identifier is scanned from a device and the device is identified as an associated device of the scanner. A service provider receives a request including scanned information to associate the portable scanner with the device and identifies the device as an associated device of the portable scanner.

In some embodiments a service provider receives a device identifier scanned using a portable scanner and receives additional information scanned using the portable scanner. The service provider identifies a network address of a device identified by the device identifier and sends content to the network address in response to receiving the additional information scanned using the portable scanner.

In some embodiments the system associates nearby devices with the user s scanner such that the nearby devices may be used for user input output I O in response to scans of a printed document. The nearby I O devices thus become part of the user interface UI for the portable scanner. An embodiment of the disclosed innovations may serve as an adaptive distributed user interface for a portable scanning device. Nearby displays computers cellphones printers public terminals audio devices speakers microphones etc may be associated with the user s scanner to provide a flexible user interface that utilizes the I O devices in its vicinity. Some embodiments of the disclosed innovations may apply nearby I O devices to enable the delivery of many types of multimedia content music video etc. that would not normally be suitable for rendering by a small portable device.

In some embodiments a web browser or other session oriented application capable of exchanging information via a network with a server application is associated with a session ID code displayed on the screen of the device session oriented application providing the application. The session oriented application communicates a request for a session ID to the server. The session ID request is correlated with the network address of the device providing the application. The server communicates a unique session ID back to the device providing the application and records the network address to which the session ID is sent and with which therefore it is associated . The session ID code is scanned from the display of the device using a portable scanner and communicated by the scanner via its currently active communication channel to the server requesting the server to communicate content related to subsequent scans of information to the network address associated with the session ID. Subsequent actions of the portable scanner result in the server retrieving the network address of the session oriented application previously associated with the session ID and communicating content related to these subsequent actions to the associated network address where the content is displayed played or otherwise rendered e.g. on a display of the device providing the application .

In some embodiments information is received about a physical location of a portable scanner. A device near the portable scanner is identified and the device is identified as an output device for information resulting from actions of the portable scanner. For example a device is identified from a database of devices previously registered with the server and known to be associated with the owner of the scanner.

In some embodiments a nearby display is associated with a portable scanner for purposes of delivering information to the user of the portable scanner. To create the association the user scans a code on the display with the portable scanner. The code may be shown on the display screen or a physical tag such as a sticker with a barcode. This code and a user identifier are sent to a service provider where the association is recorded in address translation tables or databases. Subsequent information intended for the user is sent to the display until the association is terminated.

The invention will now be described with respect to various embodiments. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of and enabling description for these embodiments of the invention. However one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the invention. References to one embodiment or an embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment although they may.

A mobile device may incorporate or interact with a portable scanner function . The portable scanner which is a scanner designed for convenient transport by a person may be a pen style device a mouse a remote control or a portable phone to name just a few of the possibilities. The portable scanner may comprise short range communication capability e.g. short range RF such as Bluetooth short range wire line such as USB etc. which it may use to communicate with the mobile device . The scanner includes a user ID code that uniquely identifies the scanner among other such scanners known to the system.

Examples of mobile devices include laptop notebook or sub notebook computers a hand held computer such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a cellular or other wireless telephone.

Information captured by the portable scanner in one or more scans possibly along with other information is communicated to the network from which it is communicated to the content location and retrieval service . In some embodiments this information may initiate a content request location retrieval action. The information from at least one of the scans may come from a printed source for example a newspaper magazine flyer book manual brochure label or advertisement. The information from one or more of the scans may also come from electronically or digitally displayed information for example text barcodes icons glyphs or other information from an electronic display.

The mobile device provides longer range communication capability to the network . Examples of such communication comprise the standard public switched telephone network using a dial up modem for example digital subscriber line asynchronous digital subscriber line cable modem Ethernet wide area LAN technology wireless LAN technology such as IEEE 802.11 and wireless cell phone technology.

The network comprises communication switching routing and data storage capabilities. The network inter alia routes and propagates information between components of the system. The network may comprise the Internet an intranet or intranets wire line and or wireless network portions.

The device database comprises information about devices that may be associated with the portable scanner and in some embodiments and or under some conditions the mobile device . In some embodiments the device database provides an association of device identifiers with device addresses. The device database may also provide an association of device identifiers with supported content types. Some embodiments of the device database comprise one or more of a relational database an index a mapping table and an enhanced domain name service.

The device association comprises associations between portable scanners and input output I O storage or processing devices. In some embodiments the device database and the device association are distinct functions which may be separately accessed by other functions for example by content retrieval . In some embodiments the device association and the device database may be incorporated into a common functional component.

The content retrieval communicates with the device database and the device association to obtain inter alia device information and device association information. In some embodiments the device database and or the device association may communicate with the content retrieval using a network such as network .

The device database the device association and the content retrieval may comprise a service provider. A service provider is a network accessible provider of information and or services in fulfillment of client requests. Service providers may provide subscription based advertising supported pay per use and or pay per transaction access to content and or communication services.

The content retrieval comprises content location and retrieval functionality. Content is at least one of text digital sound or music or one or more digital images or video. The content retrieval locates content corresponding to related to and or identified by information scanned by the portable scanner .

The content retrieval communicates with the network and provides the located content to an I O storage or processing device associated with the portable scanner .

The associated device may be inter alia an image video rendering system or audio rendering system . Some devices e.g. a combined device may include both audio and imaging video systems . Examples of such combination devices include a laptop computer a desktop computer televisions multi user computer systems or a kiosk.

Other devices that may be associated with the portable scanner include a data storage device or a printer. Examples of a data storage device comprise a computer hard drive portable flash storage device portable music and or video and or e book player e.g. portable content player and optical storage media. Computing resources such as a laptop desktop or network based computer or computers may also be associated with the portable scanner in order to enhance the processing capabilities associated with the scanner .

Identifying a device to which content will be delivered may involve receiving a device identifier for the associated device. The device identifier may be provided by the scanner or mobile device associated with the scanner. Examples of a device identifier are a barcode unique device serial number a network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address an alphanumeric code or a unique device name.

In some embodiments the network address of the associated device is necessary but an identifier for the associated device is not. The system may function without full knowledge of the capabilities of the associated device in some cases. In other cases the capabilities may be inferred. For example if the device requests a communication session identifier via a web browser and a scanner subsequently submits the communication session identifier to the system it is likely that the device has a display from which the session identifier was scanned.

In some embodiments one or more devices are registered by the user of a scanner so that they are associated with the unique user or device ID that identifies the scanner. For example a laptop computer that is owned by a user of a scanner may be registered as Device associated with the scanner s unique user and or device ID thus the associated device identifier may be quite simple given the limited number of devices registered by a single user . The associated device may comprise logic that automatically registers its current network address with the service provider since that network address may frequently change when for example a laptop is moved to a new location and establishes a new connection with the Internet . This simplifies the user s task when initiating a new session with the service provider because the user need only scan the associated device s identifier and automatically communicate a command to the service provider to look up the associated device retrieve its current network address and communicate subsequent system responses to the indicated device. Furthermore the management of the service provider s system is simplified because there is no need to create and maintain a set of identifiers that are unique among all devices known to the service provider. Each user of the service may simply register any devices that are to be used without having to apply for and subsequently apply a more complex device identifier such as a lengthy serial number.

Furthermore selecting a device from the small domain of devices associated with a given scanner and or user makes it possible to use alternative methods to identify the desired device. For example a device may be identified by scanning a selected icon or by performing a distinct gesture with the scanner.

A device identifier may be provided by scanning it and then communicating it to the content location and retrieval service provider system. In some embodiments a device identifier may be made to appear on a visual display of the device so that it may be scanned by the portable scanner . The device identifier may be scanned from a serial number affixed to the device scanned from a barcode affixed to the device and so on. The identifier of the associated device may be provided with or prior to a content request location retrieval action by the scanner .

In some embodiments one or more of the devices that will be associated with a portable scanner will be selected at least in part because they are nearby the location of the portable scanner . Identifying the location of the portable scanner may occur at least in part using GPS satellite location information information triangulated using multiple RF transceivers and or location of Wi Fi or other wireless access points used by or nearby to the portable scanner .

In some embodiments one or more associated devices may be selected or not selected at least in part by examining characteristics of the located content type for example is it text video or audio and determining whether a candidate nearby device supports rendering of that content type.

In some embodiments the device identifier for the associated device is used at least in part to identify the network address of the associated device. The device identifier may be a unique ID that distinguishes the device from all other devices known to the system or it may be an identifier that in combination with the unique user and or device ID associated with the scanner serves to uniquely identify the device to the system. The network address may comprise among other possibilities an IP address a MAC address a Uniform Resource Locator or a device name or identifier which is recognized by the network as being a particular device to which information may be sent.

Delivering the located content to the associated device may comprise configuring the associated device for exclusive use by a person using the portable scanner for as long as the portable scanner is associated with the device. Configuring the associated device for exclusive access by the person using the scanner may be particularly important in public or semi public environments.

The portable scanner and or associated mobile device may be provided with access to information for which access is controlled by the associated I O or storage device. Examples of such information are information to enable and or facilitate functionality of the scanner possibly including keyword definitions document indexes tables and parameters to facilitate OCR and or voice recognition.

A portable scanner interacts with and captures information from a computer system comprising a display . Examples of the computer system include a desktop laptop or handheld computer a PDA or a cellular or other wireless phone. The computer system comprises web browser logic. The web browser typically communicates via a network with a server. The server may comprise inter alia a web server CGI script server a private network intranet server or a server of a wire line or wireless telephone support network.

A web browsing session may be characterized by a session identifier session ID . The session ID is a code that uniquely identifies a browser communication session. Examples of session ids are HTTP session IDs as well as other protocol session IDs. In some embodiments when the web browser is directed to load a web page from a URL designating a web site belonging to service provider the service provider records the network address associated with the request from the web browser and returns a web page on which is displayed a unique session ID code . The service provider records for example in device association database the association between the unique session ID code and the network address of the device providing the web browser application.

The session identifier may be displayed to a user of the browser . Specific functionality may be provided to the web browser so that the session identifier may be displayed. The portable scanner may scan the displayed session ID code. The scanner communicates the scanned unique session ID code to the service provider together with the unique scanner and or user ID using any of the one or more network communication channels by which the scanner communicates with the service provider . This may comprise a request to the service provider to initiate a query session. Responses to subsequent scans e.g. subsequent queries are communicated to the web browser at the network address previously associated with session ID . In some embodiments the system may respond with a query session initiation request acknowledgement that may be displayed on web browser confirming to the user that the system has correctly identified the user and his intention to initiate a query session via associated the device . When the user finishes a query session for example an end session icon or command may be scanned from the display of the associated device and communicated to the service provider to terminate the current session. The service provider may then communicate a command to the web browser to clear the display removing any potentially sensitive information previously displayed in the session and display a new unique session ID code that may be scanned to initiate a new query session. Similarly after a pre determined time interval during which no communication is received by the service provider from the scanner the session may automatically time out and be similarly terminated.

Subsequent to communicating a query session initiation request the portable scanner may scan information from a printed source. The scanned information may include text a barcode glyph and or other identifier of a printed source. The scanned information may include a product name barcode company name logo trademark or other identifier of a product. The scanned information may include song name artist name anthology name and or other identifier of musical content. The scanned information may include an image name caption heading and or other identifier of image content or a movie name actor name producer name director name studio name product name or other identifier of video content.

Information captured by the at least one scans including the scanned session ID with possibly additional information may be incorporated in a content request. The scanned information may be communicated to a service provider in one or more communications. The service provider may apply the session ID code to at least in part direct content back to the web browser . This may result in the web browser receiving content communicated as a result of actions of the portable scanner .

Content communicated may include an electronic version of a printed document from which information was scanned digital music associated with information of a scan a digital voice recording audio news or commentary audio product information or other recorded or synthesized sound at least one of digital image digital photo product image or video video of news reports or commentary or other digital images or video.

At a display device comprising web browser logic communicates a request to the service provider e.g. a system comprising the device association and or device database to generate a unique session ID code which is recorded in the device association database along with a network address associated with the browser. At a unique session ID is generated and communicated back to the browser at its associated network address. At the unique session ID is scanned from its displayed location and at a query session initiation request is communicated to the service provider that includes both the unique user and or scanner ID and the unique session ID code. The service provider applies the unique session ID code contained in the request to identify the network address recorded in the device association database and a query session acknowledgement is communicated at to the device at the identified network address. The browser displays the query session request acknowledgement to the user of the scanner. The service provider also records in the device association database that the unique session ID is now owned by the user of the scanner e.g. that other portable scanning devices may not become associated with this session ID. The service provider associates the unique user and or scanner ID with the currently active session ID code and the associated network address.

At the scanner communicates scanned information REQ to the content retrieval function. Content retrieval determines content to provide in response to the scanned information.

In some embodiments the type of the content is communicated to the device database at . Content type may be used at least in part in determining which associated device or devices is most suited to render the content when more than one device is currently actively associated with scanner. When content is identified for which no currently available device is suitable a link to such content or the content itself may be stored in a database emailed to a predetermined address for the user or otherwise retained so that such content may be accessed at a later time when an appropriate rendering device is available.

At the device database communicates an associated device address or addresses or a network address or addresses to content retrieval. At content retrieval provides the content to the associated device.

In some embodiments the system may associate storage devices with the user s scanner for the purpose of storing electronic content audio video digital documents etc. delivered by the system in response to a scan of a printed document. For instance by scanning an identifier that uniquely identifies a device having storage capability such as a computer with a hard drive writable DVD CD ROM etc. the system may modify its databases so that future deliveries of content in response to scans of printed documents originating from the portable scanner will be delivered to the corresponding storage device and archived for later retrieval.

In some embodiments the system determines the user s location and which nearby devices may be associated with the user s portable electronic device. The system may determine the user s location by way of on board GPS in portable device by triangulation of wireless signals by determining the location of the communication network transceiver serving the device by querying the user or any other suitable method.

In some embodiments the system maintains a device database that has location information for I O devices that may be used in conjunction with a portable scanning device. When the system receives a request from a portable scanner for association with an I O device the system determines the location of the portable scanner and then identifies appropriate candidates by referring to the device database.

In some embodiments the user may preset the associations of devices with the portable scanner. As one example the user may want to have his home computer designated as the recipient for content requests that originate from his scanner. To accomplish this the user may access the service provider s website and manually enter identifiers of the devices and data repositories e.g. the home computer that are to receive responses to his scanned queries. Alternatively the recipient devices may be automatically identified by the various scanning methods discussed throughout this document.

In some embodiments a public kiosk displays a dynamic session ID. The kiosk is connected to a communication network such as the Internet or a corporate intranet. The connection may be via cable modem telephone system PSTN ADSL DSL etc wireless local area network WLAN IEEE802.11 etc. or any other suitable access method. The session ID changes periodically but at least every time that the kiosk is used so that a new session ID is displayed to every new user. To use the kiosk the user scans in the session ID displayed by the kiosk by scanning the session ID the user informs the system that he wishes to temporarily associate the kiosk with his scanner for the delivery of content resulting from scans of printed documents. The scanner may communicate the session ID and other information authenticating the scanner such as a serial number account number or other identifying information directly to the system perhaps via a wireless communication such as a cellular Short Message Service SMS message or by using the kiosk s links to the communication network. For example the scanner may apply the kiosk s communication link by transferring the session initiation information to the kiosk perhaps via short range RF such as BlueTooth etc. . The kiosk communicate then communicates the session initiation information to the service provider s system via its Internet connection. The scanner may communicate directly where directly means without passing the message through the kiosk with the service provider s system by communicating the session initiation message through the user s cellphone which may be paired with the user s scanner via Bluetooth or other wireless communication device.

In some embodiments the system may prevent others from using a device associated with a scanner during the period session in which the device is associated with the scanner. This feature is especially useful to prevent others from using a public kiosk before a previous session has ended. As an example of this concept related to use of a computer at an internet caf the user may initiate the session by scanning the session ID from the kiosk display or entering it via a keypad or touchscreen on the portable scanner and the system associates in its databases the session ID with the serial number or other identifier that uniquely identifies the user and or the user s scanner of his scanner so another scanner cannot scan the session ID and use the kiosk during his session. The scanner may be in communication through wireless link such as Bluetooth a hardwired link such as a docking station etc. with a computer associated with the display or may be in direct i.e. without going through the computer communication with the service provider s system via another means such as cellular etc.

In some embodiments a portable scanner s functions may vary depending upon the associated devices. For example if a portable scanner is associated with a nearby computer that has optical character recognition OCR capability the scanner may communicate scanned image data to the computer whereas if the associated computer did not have OCR capability the portable scanner may apply an on board OCR function to convert the scanned images to text before communicating the text to the service provider.

In some embodiments the scanner may obtain the communication session identifier from the computer by wireless communications e.g. a Bluetooth link rather than scanning. For example after a portable scanner makes a Bluetooth connection with a computer the computer may use the Bluetooth connection to communicate the communication session identifier to the scanner rather than displaying it on the computer display for the user to scan with the portable scanner.

In some embodiments the system enhances the user interface for portable electronic devices by associating other devices that have better video or audio capability than the portable electronic device. For example a subscriber waiting for a flight in an airport may browse a television guide and notice a show that he wishes to watch. Using the web browser on his computer to browse to the service provider s website the subscriber may get a communication session identifier communicated to his laptop computer. Scanning the communication session identifier and information identifying the show from the television guide the subscriber identifies the laptop computer as the location where he wishes to have the video content the television show delivered. The system may check whether the subscriber has the proper permissions to access the content e.g. does he have a cable television service contract if broadband Internet access is necessary to deliver the video does he have a broadband service contract with an Internet Service Provider etc. prior to sending it to the laptop computer.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware collectively logic and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a solely software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will require optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood as notorious by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. Several portions of the subject matter subject matter described herein may be implemented via forms of logic including Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented using forms of logic including integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by logic including a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof which can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use standard engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into larger systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a network processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation.

The foregoing described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the claims use the word or in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list. Although many of the embodiments have been described in the context of a portable scanner one of ordinary skill in the art understands that any portable electronic device having imaging capability may be suitable to implement the disclosed innovations.

