---

title: System and method for displaying secondary content on a display device
abstract: A display apparatus includes a display screen having a height and a width, a main content controller for providing a main content to the display screen for display, and a secondary content controller configured to cause a secondary content to be displayed on the display screen without obscuring any portion of the main content while the main content is displayed in the main content's original aspect ratio and across one of a full height and a full width of the display screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510039&OS=09510039&RS=09510039
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 09510039
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20130304
---
The present invention relates generally to display devices and more specifically to display devices for displaying video content. Even more specifically the present invention relates to system and method for displaying secondary content on a display device.

The 4 3 aspect ratio has been the standard aspect radio of broadcast television in the United States since at least the 1950 s. In the 2000 s the 16 9 aspect ratio becomes common globally with the advent of digital and HDTV broadcast. Recorded video content for home entertainment has also typically followed one of these two aspect ratio standards. Dimensions of display devices made for the viewing of video contents such as television sets are generally designed to match the prevalent aspect ratio of the content they are intended to display. Therefore before the 2000 s a typical television sets has a display screen with a 4 3 width to height ratio. Around the time of the filing of this application most of the current television sets on the market have screens with a 16 9 width to height ratio.

In one embodiment the invention can be characterized as a display apparatus. The display apparatus includes a display screen having a height and a width a main content controller for providing a main content to the display screen for display and a secondary content controller configured to cause a secondary content to be displayed on the display screen without obscuring any portion of the main content while the main content is displayed in the main content s original aspect ratio and across one of a full height and a full width of the display screen.

In another embodiment the invention can be characterized as a method for displaying content on a display device. The method for displaying content on a display device includes the steps of displaying a main content across one of a full height or a full width of a display screen of a display apparatus determining a free display area in the display screen not occupied by the main content and displaying an secondary content in the free display area without obscuring any portion of a display of the main content while the main content is displayed in the main content s original aspect ratio and across one of the full height and the full width of the display screen.

In a further embodiment the invention may be characterized as a display apparatus. The display apparatus includes a display screen a non transitory storage medium storing a system software and a processor configured to execute the system software and perform the steps of displaying a main content across one of a full height or a full width of the display screen and displaying an secondary content without obscuring any portion of a display of the main content while the main content is displayed in the main content s original aspect ratio and across one of the full height and the full width of the display screen.

Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding components throughout the several views of the drawings. Skilled artisans will appreciate that elements in the figures are illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help to improve understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. Also common but well understood elements that are useful or necessary in a commercially feasible embodiment are often not depicted in order to facilitate a less obstructed view of these various embodiments of the present invention.

The following description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of exemplary embodiments. The scope of the invention should be determined with reference to the claims.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Referring first to a display screen of a conventional display device is shown. Conventionally a display device such as a television has a width to height ratio that is identical or substantially the same as the aspect ratio of the video content it is intended to display. For example a typical present day television has the width to height ratio of 16 9 matching the aspect ratio of HD television broadcast signal and most DVD Blu Ray internet streaming video content. As such when the video content is displayed on the display device the video content occupies the full height and width of the screen of the display device . Some of the convention display devices also include on screen displays OSD features that can display information such as an electronic program guides EPG and or options menu for the display device on the screen to the user. The display of the OSD such as options menu and EPG typically overlays the main video content as shown in which causes at least part of the main video content to be covered up by the OSD. Alternatively some conventional televisions reduce the display size of the video content when the OSD is displayed. With the width to height ratio of display device matching the aspect ratio of the displayed main video content the display of any OSD inevitably disrupts the viewing of the main video content in some way.

Referring next to an example display screen of a display device according to some embodiments is shown. The display screen displays a main content and secondary content in two secondary content display areas and . The display screen may be part of a display device such as a HDTV Smart TV 3D TV 4K Ultra HD TV and the like. The display screen may be a LCD LED OLED Plasma display and the like. In the display screens are shown to be square shaped displays having equal width and height. However it is understood the present disclosure is not limited to a square display screen. Display screens with other width to height ratios may also be utilized with the systems and methods described herein.

The main content may be a broadcast television program a streaming video content a locally generated content or a stored video content such as video content from a DVD player Blu Ray player local or remote hard drive and the like. In some embodiments the main content corresponds to a direct video input signal received by the display device from an external content source such as a television receiver media storage or a network connection. In some embodiments the main content may be other visual media contents such as album cover arts and photographs.

In the main content is displayed at the full width of the display screen but does not occupy the full height of the display screen . The main content has the aspect ratio of 16 9 while the display screen has a width to height ratio of 1 1. The difference between the aspect ratio of the main content and the width to height ratio of the display screen creates two secondary content display areas and on the display screen . The secondary content area is used to display thumb nails of other available contents. Other available contents may be programs on other channel media content on a remote or local storage and the like. In some embodiments a user can interact with the secondary content displayed in the secondary content area . For example a user may scroll and select one of the other available contents to change the display of the main content . In some embodiments the user can select one of the other available contents to see more information relating to that available content. In some embodiments other available contents may be displayed in different forms such as a list of titles and or an EPG time table.

Secondary content area of includes a clock. The clock in the secondary content area may be part of the display device s system software or a software widget that the user can customize to provide the desired display. Other software widgets such as ones displaying weather stock ticker game scores news headlines social media update and the like may also be installed and or displayed in either secondary content display areas or .

Referring next to another example screen of a display device according to some embodiments is shown. In the display screen displays a main content at the full width of the display screen. The secondary content area displays four frames showing broadcasts of different sporting events and a scoreboard . In some embodiments the secondary display area can display any number of frames. Each of the frames may display broadcast program from other channels other streaming video content and or stored content on a local or remote storage. In some embodiments a user may customize the content displayed in each frame. In some embodiments a user may select one of the frames to change the display in that frame and or of the main content . The score board may be a software widget that retrieves information through an internet connection.

Referring next to another example screen of a display device according to some embodiments is shown. In the display screen displays a video game play screen as the main content . In the secondary content display area additional information relating to the video game is shown. The additional information includes an aerial map showing the player s location and a menu for selecting weapons. Other additional game information such as options menu in game multiplayer messaging player statistics inventory etc. may be shown in the secondary content display area. In some embodiments the secondary content s may be provided by a game console providing the main content . In some embodiments when the display device is connected to a game console the game console recognizes the availability of secondary content display area and automatically provides the additional game play content. In some embodiments the user can selectively enable additional game play content on the game console. In some embodiments the display device communicates the availability and or dimensions of secondary content display space to the game console and the game console provides secondary game play content according to the available space.

Referring next to yet another example screen of a display device according to some embodiments is shown. In the display screen a main video content is shown along with website content and social media content . illustrates that in some embodiments the user can customize the size of the main video content and secondary contents. The square aspect ratio of the display screen makes the screen particularly adapted for reading texts on a website or in a document.

Alternatively in some embodiments the website content may be considered the main content occupying the full height of the screen. The main video content and social media content may be considered secondary content. That is in the main content occupies the full height but not the full width of the screen. As shown in a secondary content display area may also be to the left or right of the main content display.

Referring next to a method for displaying secondary content on a display device in shown. In step a main content is displayed. The main content may be at least one of broadcast television content streamed video content local video content recorded video content and video game play content. In some embodiments the main content corresponds to an input video signal received from an external source for example a television receiver cable box set top box satellite dish DVD player Blu Ray player game console internet streaming sources local media storage remote media storage etc. In some embodiments in step the main content is automatically displayed at its largest size while maintaining its aspect ratio and without cropping any portion of the main content. Due to the difference between the aspect ratio of the main content and the width to height ratio of the display device the largest display size may occupy the full width or the full height of the screen but not both. For example when a square display device receives a standard HDTV signal having a 16 9 aspect ratio the HDTV content would be displayed at the full width of the square display screen and would only occupy nine sixteenth of the height of the square display screen.

In step the display device determines the size and or dimension of the secondary display area. The secondary content display area may be one or more area not occupied by the main content. In some embodiments step includes a determination of the availability of secondary content display area. In some embodiments step includes a determination of the dimensions the secondary content display area or areas by comparing the aspect ratio of the main content and the dimensions of the display screen. For example when a square display device receives a standard 16 9 aspect ratio video as the main content the secondary content display area may be determined to have the width of the square display screen and seven sixteenth of the height of the display screen. In some embodiments the secondary content display area can be split into two or more areas such as previously shown in . In some embodiments the determination of secondary content display area may be based on the source and or type of the input video signal. In some embodiments the device may assume all incoming video signals has a standard aspect ratio and assumes the secondary content display area based on the ratio differences between the width to height ratio of the display screen and the standard aspect ratio.

In step the display device displays secondary content. The secondary content may include one or more of options menu thumbnail video content stock ticker sports ticker advertisement auxiliary device controls video game play data electronic program guide web content software widget and supplemental content corresponding to the main video content. In some embodiments the display of secondary content is restricted to the previously determined available secondary content display area. As such the secondary content is displayed without obscuring any portion of the display of the main content while the main content is displayed in the main content s original aspect ratio and across one of the full height and the full width of the display screen. That is the secondary content utilizes the screen space not occupied by the main content when the main content is displayed at the maximum size and therefore the display of the secondary content does not obscure or affect the display of the main content.

In some embodiments the display of the secondary content changes the display position of the main content. For example for a main content that is displayed at the full width of the display screen the main content s display position may be shifted up or down to reallocate space available to the secondary content display areas below and above the main content. The display position of the main content as well as the content displayed in the secondary content display areas may be fully customizable by a user. In some embodiments users can further interact with the secondary content in various ways. For example a user may browse through an electronic program guide displayed in the secondary content display area and select a desired program to be displayed as the main content. A user may also use the secondary content area to access web pages and social media services. In some embodiments the secondary content area may have a default display in which advertisements and or supplemental content related to the main content are displayed when the user is not actively utilizing the secondary content display area. The default content may be determined and or supplied by a remote advertisement or supplemental content server. In some embodiments a user can selectively disable the display of secondary content.

Referring next to a system for providing secondary content display on a display device is shown. The system includes a display device having a display screen a main content controller and a secondary content controller . The display device may be connected locally or remotely to one or more of television receiver auxiliary device and network .

The display device may be a television set such as a Smart TV HDTV 3D TV 4K Ultra HD TV etc. The display screen may be a LCD LED OLED Plasma display and the like.

The display screen has a different width to height ratio than the broadcast television standard aspect ratio or ratios which at the time of this application is one of 4 3 and 16 9. In some embodiments the display screen has a 1 1 width to height ratio that is the display screen may be a square display. Other display screen dimensions are also possible without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure.

The main content controller may be a hardware or software module. In some embodiments main content controller may represent a set of computer readable instructions stored on a storage medium and executed by a processor. The main content controller controls the display of a main content on the display screen . The main content may correspond to data signal received from an external source such as television receiver cable box set top box satellite dish DVD player Blu Ray player game console internet streaming source local media storage remote media storage etc. The main content controller may determine the largest or maximum display size for the received video content. The maximum display size may occupy either the full width or full height of the display screen without any portion of the video being outside the frame of the display screen . In some embodiments the main content controller may reposition and or rescale the display of the main content based instructions received from the secondary content controller . In some embodiments a user may define a portion of the display screen area that is available to the main content and the maximum display size is determine according to the size of the user defined portion of the display screen instead of the entire display screen.

The secondary content controller controls the display of secondary content. In some embodiments secondary content controller may represent a set of computer readable instructions stored on a storage medium and executed by a processor. The secondary content can be any on screen display that is not the main content. In some embodiments the secondary content controller determines whether any secondary content display area is available. The secondary content controller may compare the aspect ratio of the main content and the width to height ratio of the display screen to determine whether any secondary content display area is available. In some embodiments the secondary content controller determines the available size of one or more secondary content display area and configures the display of secondary content according to the size of the available area or areas.

In some embodiments the secondary content controller causes the display screen to display secondary content according to user configurations. For example a user may select one or more of several different types of secondary content to display including but not limited to options menu thumbnail video content stock ticker sports ticker advertisement auxiliary device controls video game play data electronic program guide web content software widget and supplemental content corresponding to the main video content. In some embodiments the content displayed in the secondary content display area is fully customizable.

In some embodiments the secondary content controller may select the displayed secondary content base on the main content and or a state of the display device . For example the secondary content controller may display on screen controls for an auxiliary device when the display device is initially tuned to the input of from the corresponding auxiliary device. In another example the secondary content controller may automatically display sports stickers when the main content is tuned to a sports program or channel. In some embodiments the secondary content controller causes advertisements to be displayed when the user is not actively utilizing other types of secondary content. In some embodiments the secondary content controller causes supplemental information relating to the displayed main content to be displayed.

While in main content controller and secondary content controller are represented by separate blocks the functionalities of the two controllers may be implemented in one or more shared physical component. In some embodiments the main content controller and the secondary content controller may be implemented with multiple components. In some embodiments the main content controller and secondary content controller are software modules of the system software software framework application programming interface API middleware and or an operating system of the display device. In some embodiments the controllers are software modules of a proprietary smart TV platform and or system software interface. While shows that outputs of the main content controller and the secondary content controller are directly received by the display screen it is understood that there may be one or more intermediate module that combines the information from the two controllers to provide a single display signal to the display screen . The main content controller and secondary content controller may also directly communicate with each other. It is also understood that the display device may include a number of other hardware and or software modules that are not shown.

The display device may be connected through wired or wireless connection to one or more of television receiver auxiliary device and network collectively referred to as external devices. The television receiver may receive a broadcast television signal from a broadcast station through over the air broadcast cable service or satellite signals etc. The auxiliary device may be a DVD player a Blu Ray player a local media storage a networked media storage a game console a set top box and the like. The display device may be connected to the network through a built in network adapter or through one of the auxiliary devices . The network may be the Internet a local network a private network a home network a regional network etc.

In some embodiments both the main content controller and the secondary content controller may cause the display screen to display images corresponding a signal or data received from one of the external devices. For example the main content controller can cause the display screen to display one of television program received from the television receiver a Blu Ray movie received from a Blu Ray device or a streaming video received from the network . The secondary content controller can include inputs or data from one or more of the external devices in the display of the secondary content. For example the secondary content controller can incorporates one or more of the following into the display of the secondary content thumbnails of programs on other channels EPG etc. from television receiver on screen auxiliary device controls images corresponding to available content on a media player and or storage extra game play data etc. from one or more auxiliary device stock ticker game score ticker web content web streaming video advertisements weather information etc. from the network .

In some embodiments the display device further includes a communication module not shown that communicates with an auxiliary device. The communication module may transmit information relating to the availability and the dimensions of the secondary content display area. In some embodiments an auxiliary device may provide data to the display device according to the received information relating to the secondary content display area. For example the auxiliary device may be a game console. The game console may normally only provide a game play video signal in the 16 9 aspect ratio to a display device. When the game console is connected to the display device it may recognize that the display device has available secondary content display area and provide additional game play data to be displayed in the secondary content display area.

Referring next to a system for providing secondary content display on a display device is shown. In the display device includes a memory a processor and a display screen . The display device may be a television set such as a Smart TV HDTV 3D TV 4K Ultra HD TV etc. The display screen may be a LCD LED OLED Plasma display and the like. In some embodiments the display screen is a square display.

In some embodiments the processes discussed with reference to may be a set of executable code stored in the memory . The executable code may be shipped with the display device when the display device is sold. The executable code may also be updated through an internet or other types of network connection. The processor may be configures to execute the codes stored in memory to cause the display of main content and or secondary content as previously discussed on the display screen .

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions that may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code could be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network.

While the invention herein disclosed has been described by means of specific embodiments examples and applications thereof numerous modifications and variations could be made thereto by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention set forth in the claims.

