---

title: Systems and methods for video game participation via social network interactions
abstract: Various exemplary embodiments use social networks and their social graph APIs to participate in a game without needing to own, install, or play the game. These embodiments have the game post data to social networks and then allow the social media users to interact with that data. The embodiments perform this interaction without ever having to download, install, or play the game. The games then read that interaction and score it for participation in the game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09144740&OS=09144740&RS=09144740
owner: EPIC GAMES, INC.
number: 09144740
owner_city: Cary
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 618 024 filed Mar. 30 2012 entitled Systems and Methods for Video Game Participation Via Social Network Interactions to Joseph James Graf and Geremy Mustard and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 618 053 filed Mar. 30 2012 entitled Systems and Methods for Socially Motivated Multiplayer Gaming to Joseph James Graf Donald Mustard and Geremy Mustard the contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for video game participation via social network interactions.

In order to interact with a game players are usually required to own install or play the game in question in order to participate within it. This limits the scope of the players that can participate. Even Web based or Adobe Flash based games generally require the user to download and play the game limiting the number of people that can potentially share in the game s goals. These and other drawbacks exist.

Various exemplary embodiments use social networks and their social graph APIs to participate in a game without needing to own install or play the game. These embodiments may involve having the game post data to social networks and then allowing social media users to interact with the posted data. The embodiments may perform this interaction without having to download install or even play the game. The games may then receiving and analyze that interaction and score or otherwise assess it for participation in the game.

The following description is intended to convey a thorough understanding of the embodiments described by providing a number of specific embodiments and details involving systems and methods for video game participation via social network interactions. It should be appreciated however that the present disclosure is not limited to these specific embodiments and details which are exemplary only. It is further understood that one possessing ordinary skill in the art in light of known systems and methods would appreciate the use of the invention for its intended purposes and benefits in any number of alternative embodiments depending on specific design and other needs.

In various embodiments the terms gamer player or user may refer to the individual that is interacting with the game.

In various embodiments the phrase game server may refer to the networked computer or groups of computers that process the global game event state.

In various embodiments the phrase social network may refer to a media that users interact with socially such as for example Facebook MySpace YouTube Pinterest or other like social network.

In various embodiments the phrase social graph API may prefer to the application programming interface for manipulating social network objects. The social graph API manages the connections between objects and the information of how those objects relate.

A system and method for social game participation and interaction may include various exemplary embodiments for interacting with a game using social networking. The system and method may include at least one gamer system at least one central gaming system and at least one social network system. In certain embodiments the gamer system and the central gaming system may be the same system so that the gamer system may interact with a social network system without the aid of a central gaming system. Where the gamer system and social network system interact without a central gaming system components of the central gaming system described below may be included in the gamer system. An exemplary embodiment may allow a gamer to publish gaming data relating to gameplay. An exemplary embodiment may track interactions with published gaming data and calculate a score based on the tracked interactions. Additionally an exemplary embodiment may apply a calculated score to the gameplay associated with the gaming data. An exemplary embodiment may also track a primary interaction with a secondary e.g. liking a comment on published gaming data and use these secondary tracked interactions in a secondary score calculation which may then be applied to a gameplay score associated with the initial published gameplay data. A gameplay score may also be based on characteristics associated with the interactor of the interaction. For example the size of an interactor s social network and or the number of gamers participating in the gameplay even that the interactor is connected to via a social network may be considered in determining a gameplay score.

The gamer system central gaming system and social network system may each include a network enabled computer system and or devices. As referred to herein a network enabled computer system and or device may include but is not limited to e.g. any computer device or communications device including e.g. a server a network appliance a personal computer PC a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin client a fat client an Internet browser a game server a gaming console or other device. The network enabled computer systems may execute one or more software applications to for example receive data as input from an entity accessing the network enabled computer system process received data transmit data over a network and receive data over a network. The one or more network enabled computer systems may also include one or more software applications to social game interactions as described herein.

A gamer system central gaming system and social network system may each also contain data storage for storing and tracking gameplay data published gameplay data and interactions with published gameplay data. Data storage not shown may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS or other computer accessible storage. In one or more embodiments data storage may be a database such as an Oracle database a Microsoft SQL Server database a DB2 database a MySQL database a Sybase database an object oriented database a hierarchical database a NoSQL type database or other database. Data storage may also utilize flat file structures for storage of data.

Network may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal.

In addition network may include without limitation telephone lines fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 902.3 a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Network may further include one network or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which they are communicatively coupled. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example the Internet a service provider s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

A central gaming system may include various modules to perform the functions described herein. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computer executable software firmware hardware or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device or may be included in both devices. A central gaming system may include a game module which may include various hardware and software components for participating in gameplay monitoring gameplay calculating gameplay scores and or all other gameplay related activities. A central gaming system may also include a social graph module which may include various hardware and software components for connecting to a social network system manipulating social network objects and interacting with a social network system .

When data is published on a social network system the data may be visible to a particular social network step . Visibility may depend on privacy settings associated with the posting. Once visible to a social network social network users may interact with the posted data step . At step a social network user may interact with the published data. This interaction may take a variety of forms such as for example positively reviewing the published data e.g. Facebook likes Google 1s etc. commenting on the published data and or referring other users to see it Twitter re tweets Facebook share Pinterest pinning . At step an interaction by a gamer or other user may be tracked and or recorded. Interactions with posted game data may be considered primary interactions where an interaction with an interaction of game data may be considered a secondary interaction e.g. liking a comment on Facebook commenting on a re tweet on Twitter or another other interaction with a primary interaction . In step a social graph module of a central game system connected to a social network system may track a number of interactions both primary interactions and secondary interactions and the user associated with the interaction. Also the social network system may track a number of interactions and the user associated with user interaction and then send the interaction data to the central game system . Interactions data may include for example time and date of interaction type of interaction e.g. positive interaction commentary interaction sharing interaction user who performed the interaction and or whether the interaction is a primary interaction or a secondary interaction. At step a game module of a central game system may use the interaction data to calculate a gameplay score. At step a separate gameplay score may be calculated for primary interactions and secondary interaction. Also a single gameplay score may be calculated for all types of interactions. At step a game module in a central game system may apply the calculated gameplay score s to an associated gameplay event in game module and transfer to game results to the associated gamer system . Additionally a reward may be sent to a gamer system based on the calculated gameplay score s . A reward may be any type of reward including but not limited to gameplay credits unlocking gameplay levels and or options sponsored advertiser related rewards and any other form of reward.

It is to be appreciated that the set of instructions e.g. the software that configures the computer operating system to perform the operations described above may be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium as desired. Further any data that is processed by the set of instructions might also be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium. That is the particular medium i.e. the memory in the processing machine utilized to hold the set of instructions and or the data used in the invention may take on any of a variety of physical forms or transmissions for example. Illustratively the medium may be in the form of paper paper transparencies a compact disk a DVD an integrated circuit a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM a PROM a EPROM a wire a cable a fiber communications channel a satellite transmissions or other remote transmission as well as any other medium or source of data that may be read by a computer.

Accordingly the embodiments of the present inventions are not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Further although some of the embodiments of the present disclosure have been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art should recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the embodiments of the present inventions can be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the embodiments of the present inventions as disclosed herein. While the foregoing description includes many details and specificities it is to be understood that these have been included for purposes of explanation only and are not to be interpreted as limitations of the invention. Many modifications to the embodiments described above can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

