---

title: N-phase polarity output pin mode multiplexer
abstract: System, methods and apparatus are described that facilitate transmission of data, particularly between two devices within an electronic apparatus. Data is selectively transmitted as N-phase polarity encoded symbols or as packets on differentially driven connectors. A desired operational mode for communicating between the two devices is determined, an encoder is selected to drive a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling the two devices, and a plurality of drivers is configured to receive encoded data from the encoder and drive the plurality of connectors. Switches may couple outputs of the selected encoder to the plurality of drivers. One or more outputs of another encoder may be caused or forced to enter a high impedance mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143362&OS=09143362&RS=09143362
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09143362
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130701
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 666 197 entitled N Phase Polarity Output Pin Mode Multiplexer filed Jun. 29 2012 which is assigned to the assignee hereof which application is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

At least one aspect generally relates to high speed data communications interfaces and more particularly multiplexing the input and output pins of an application processor.

Manufacturers of mobile devices such as cellular phones may obtain components of the mobile devices from various sources including different manufacturers. For example the application processor in a cellular phone may be obtained from a first manufacturer while the display for the cellular phone may be obtained from a second manufacturer. Moreover multiple standards are defined for interconnecting certain components of the mobile devices. For example there are multiple types of interface defined for communications between an application processor and a display within mobile device. Some displays provide an interface that conforms to the Display System Interface DSI standard specified by the Mobile Industry Processor Interface Alliance MIPI . Other displays may utilize other kinds of physical interfaces which may be more efficient than the conventional DSI. It would be economical for the same application processor to be configured for use with more than one display interface.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide systems methods and apparatus that enable an application processor to communicate with a display using any of a plurality of interface standards. According to certain aspects described herein two or more Integrated Circuit IC devices may be collocated in an electronic apparatus and communicatively coupled through one or more data links that can be configured as desired for compatibility with one of a plurality of interface standards.

In an aspect of the disclosure a data transfer method comprises determining a type of physical interface to be used for communicating between two devices in a wireless mobile terminal selecting an encoder to generate encoded data consistent with the type of physical interface to be used for communicating between the two devices and configuring a plurality of drivers to receive the encoded data from the encoder and to drive a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling the two devices in accordance with the type of physical interface to be used for communicating between the two devices. The type of physical interface may be one of a plurality of types of physical interface supported by at least one of the two devices.

In an aspect of the disclosure the data transfer method comprises controlling a plurality of switches to couple outputs of the selected encoder to the plurality of drivers.

In an aspect of the disclosure the plurality of connectors comprises at least some bidirectional connectors. In an aspect of the disclosure the plurality of connectors comprises at least some unidirectional connectors. In an aspect of the disclosure the plurality of connectors comprises a combination of bidirectional and unidirectional connectors.

In an aspect of the disclosure the encoder may provide the encoded data in differentially encoded signals. The plurality of drivers may be configured to receive the encoded data by causing one or more outputs of another encoder to enter a high impedance mode. The other encoder may be a different type of encoder and may comprise an N phase encoder for example.

In an aspect of the disclosure the encoder provides encoded data in a sequence of symbols encoded using a combination of a phase state of a first pair of the connectors a polarity of a second pair of connectors and a selection of at least one undriven connector. The first pair of the connectors may comprise the same wires as the second pair of connectors. One or more outputs of a differential encoder may be caused to enter a high impedance mode. In one example the encoded data may include video data related to a camera or a display controlled by one of the two devices.

In an aspect of the disclosure an apparatus comprises a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling a first IC device with a second IC device means for generating encoded data consistent with the type of physical interface to be used for communicating between the two devices and means for configuring a plurality of drivers to receive the encoded data from one of the at least two encoders and to drive a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling the two devices in accordance with the type of physical interface to be used for communicating between the two devices. The means for generating encoded data may include at least two encoders that are configured to encode data in different manners. The plurality of connectors may comprise wires traces or other electrically conductive connectors.

In an aspect of the disclosure an apparatus comprises a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling a first device with a second device in a wireless mobile terminal and a processing system configured to determine an operational mode for communicating between the first device and the second device select an encoder to drive the plurality of connectors and configure a plurality of drivers to receive encoded data from the encoder. The plurality of drivers may drive the plurality of connectors.

In an aspect of the disclosure a processor readable storage medium has one or more instructions that when executed by at least one processing circuit cause the at least one processing circuit to determine a type of physical interface to be used for communicating between two devices in a wireless mobile terminal select an encoder to generate encoded data consistent with the type of physical interface to be used for communicating between the two devices and configure a plurality of drivers to receive the encoded data from the encoder and to drive a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling the two devices in accordance with the type of physical interface to be used for communicating between the two devices. The type of physical interface may be one of a plurality of types of physical interface supported by at least one of the two devices.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computing device and or distributed between two or more computing devices. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be applicable to communications links deployed between electronic components that may include subcomponents of a device such as a telephone a mobile computing device an appliance an automobile electronics an avionics system etc. depicts an example of an apparatus employing a data link between IC devices that selectively operates according to one of plurality of available standards. The apparatus may comprise a wireless communication device that communicates wirelessly with a radio access network RAN a core access network the Internet and or another network. The apparatus may include a communications transceiver operably coupled to a processing circuit . The processing circuit may comprise one or more IC devices such as an application specific IC ASIC . The ASIC may include one or more processing devices sequencers logic circuits and so on. The processing circuit may include and or be coupled to processor readable storage such as a memory device that may maintain instructions and data the may be executed and otherwise used by the processing circuit . The processing circuit may be controlled by one or more of an operating system and an application programming interface API layer that supports and enables execution of software modules residing in the memory device . The memory device may comprise read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a flash memory device or any memory device that can be used in processing systems and computing platforms. Processing circuit may include and or access a local database that can maintain operational parameters and other information used to configure and operate the apparatus . The local database may be implemented using one or more of a database module or server flash memory magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The processing circuit may also be operably coupled to external devices such as an antenna a display operator controls such as a button and a keypad among other components.

The communications link may comprise multiple channels links and . One or more channel may be bidirectional and may operate in half duplex and or full duplex modes. One or more channel and may be unidirectional. The communications link may be asymmetrical providing higher bandwidth in one direction. In one example described herein a first communications channel may be referred to as a forward link while a second communications channel may be referred to as a reverse link . The first IC device may be designated as a host system or transmitter while the second IC device may be designated as a client system or receiver even if both IC devices and are configured to transmit and receive on the communications link . In one example the forward link may operate at a higher data rate when communicating data from a first IC device to a second IC device while the reverse link may operate at a lower data rate when communicating data from the second IC device to the first IC device .

The IC devices and may each comprise a processor or other processing and or computing circuit or device . In one example the first IC device may perform core functions of the apparatus including maintaining wireless communications through a wireless transceiver and an antenna while the second IC device may support a user interface that manages or operates a display controller and may control operations of a camera or video input device using a camera controller . Other features supported by one or more of the IC devices and may include a keyboard a voice recognition component and other input or output devices. The display controller may comprise circuits and software drivers that support a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD panel a touch screen display an indicator and so on. The storage media and may comprise transitory and or non transitory storage devices adapted to maintain instructions and data used by the respective processors and and or other components of the IC devices and . Communication between each processor and its corresponding storage media and and other modules and circuits may be facilitated by one or more bus and respectively.

The reverse link may be operated in the same manner as the forward link and the forward link and the reverse link may be capable of transmitting at comparable speeds or at different speeds where speed may be expressed as data transfer rate and or clocking rates. The forward and reverse data rates may be substantially the same or may differ by orders of magnitude depending on the application. In some applications a single bidirectional link may support communications between the first IC device and the second IC device . The forward link and or the reverse link may be configurable to operate in a bidirectional mode when for example the forward and reverse links and share the same physical connections and operate in a half duplex manner.

In one example the communications link may be operated to communicate control command and other information between the first IC device and the second IC device in accordance with an industry or other standard. Industry standards may be application specific. For example the MIPI standard defines physical layer interfaces including a synchronous interface specification D PHY between an application processor IC device and an IC device that supports the camera or display in a mobile device. The D PHY specification governs the operational characteristics of products that comply with MIPI specifications for mobile devices. A D PHY interface may support data transfers using a flexible low cost high speed serial interface that interconnects IC devices and or other components within a mobile device. These interfaces may comprise complimentary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS compatible parallel busses providing relatively low bit rates with slow edges to avoid electromagnetic interference EMI issues.

On the reverse link one or more pairs of wires may be driven by a client side differential amplifier . The differential amplifier receives an input data stream and generates positive and negative versions of the input which are provided to the pair of wires . The differential receiver on the host generates an output data stream by performing a comparison of the signals carried on the pair of wires

In a bidirectional link the host and client may be configured for half duplex mode and may transmit and receive data on the same wire pair . A bidirectional bus may alternatively or additionally be operated in full duplex mode using combinations of the forward and reverse link drivers to drive multiple wire pairs . In the half duplex bidirectional implementation depicted for the bidirectional link one or more transmitters amplifiers and may be prevented from driving the wire pair simultaneously using for example an output enable OE control respectively to force the transmitters and into a high impedance state. The differential receiver may be prevented from driving the input output while the differential transmitter is active typically using an OE control to force the differential receiver into a high impedance state. The differential receiver may be prevented from driving the input output while the differential transmitter is active typically using an OE control to force the differential receiver into a high impedance state. In some instances the outputs of the differential transmitters and and the differential receivers and may be in a high impedance state when the interface is not active. Accordingly the OE controls and of the differential transmitters and the differential receivers and may be operated independently of one another.

Each of the differential amplifiers and may comprise a pair of amplifiers one receiving at one input the inverse of the input of the other amplifier. The differential amplifiers and may each receive a single input and comprise an internal inverter that generates an inverse input for use with a pair of amplifiers. The differential amplifiers and may also be constructed using two separately controlled amplifiers such that their respective outputs can be placed in high impedance mode independently of one another.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein systems and apparatus may employ multi phase data encoding and decoding interface methods for communicating between IC devices and . A multi phase encoder may drive a plurality of conductors i.e. M conductors . The M conductors typically comprise three or more conductors and each conductor may be referred to as a wire although the M conductors may comprise conductive traces on a circuit board or within a conductive layer of a semiconductor IC device. The M conductors may be divided into a plurality of transmission groups each group encoding a portion of a block of data to be transmitted. An N phase encoding scheme is defined in which bits of data are encoded in phase transitions and polarity changes on the M conductors. In one example an N phase encoding scheme for a three wire system may comprise three phase states and two polarities providing 6 states and 5 possible transitions from each state. Deterministic voltage and or current changes may be detected and decoded to extract data from the M conductors. Decoding does not rely on independent conductors or pairs of conductors and timing information can be derived directly from phase and or polarity transitions in the M conductors. N Phase polarity data transfer can be applied to any physical signaling interface including electrical optical and radio frequency RF interfaces for example.

In the depicted example an M wire N phase polarity encoding transmitter is configured for M 3 and N 3. The example of three wire three phase encoding is selected solely for the purpose of simplifying descriptions of certain aspects of this disclosure. The principles and techniques disclosed for three wire three phase encoders can be applied in other configurations of M wire N phase polarity encoders and may comply or be compatible with other interface standards.

When N phase polarity encoding is used connectors such as signal wires and on an N line bus may be undriven driven positive or driven negative. An undriven signal wire or may be in a high impedance state. An undriven signal wire or may be driven or pulled to a voltage level that lies substantially halfway between the positive and negative voltage levels provided on driven signal wires. An undriven signal wire or may have no current flowing through it. In the example each signal wire and may be in one of three states denoted as 1 1 or 0 using drivers . In one example drivers may comprise unit level current mode drivers. In another example drivers may drive opposite polarity voltages on two signal wires and while the third signal wire is at high impedance and or pulled to ground. For each transmitted symbol interval at least one signal is in the undriven 0 state while the number of signals driven positive 1 state is equal to the number of signals driven negative 1 state such that the sum of current flowing to the receiver is always zero. For each symbol the state of at least one signal wire or is changed from the symbol transmitted in the preceding transmission interval.

In the example a mapper may receive 16 bit data and the mapper may map the input data to 7 symbols for transmitting sequentially over the signal wires and . An M wire N phase encoder configured for three wire three phase encoding receives the 7 symbols produced by the mapper one symbol at a time and computes the state of each signal wire and for each symbol interval. The 7 symbols may be serialized using parallel to serial converters for example. The encoder selects the states of the signal wires and based on the input symbol and the previous states of signal wires and

The use of M wire N phase encoding permits a number of bits to be encoded in a plurality of symbols where the bits per symbol is not an integer. In the simple example of a three wire three phase system there are 3 available combinations of 2 wires which may be driven simultaneously and 2 possible combinations of polarity on any pair of wires that is driven simultaneously yielding 6 possible states. Since each transition occurs from a current state 5 of the 6 states are available at every transition. The state of at least one wire is typically required to change at each transition. With 5 states log 5 2.32 bits may be encoded per symbol. Accordingly a mapper may accept a 16 bit word and convert it to 7 symbols because 7 symbols carrying 2.32 bits per symbol can encode 16.24 bits. In other words a combination of seven symbols that encodes five states has 5 78 125 permutations. Accordingly the 7 symbols may be used to encode the 2 65 536 permutations of 16 bits.

At any phase state in a three wire example exactly two of the conductors carry a signal which is effectively a differential signal for that phase state while the third conductor or is undriven. The phase state for each conductor may be defined by voltage difference between the conductor and at least one other conductor or by the direction of current flow or lack of current flow in the conductor . As shown in the state diagram three phase states corresponding respectively to states A B and C are defined with signal flow from state A to state B state B to state C and state C to state A in a first direction and signal flow from state A to state C state C to state B and state B to state A in a second direction. For other values of N transitions between the N states may be defined according to a corresponding state diagram to obtain circular rotation between state transitions.

In the example of a three wire three phase link clockwise rotation A to B B to C or C to A at a state transition may be used to encode a logic 1 while counter clockwise rotations A to C C to B or B to A at the state transition may be used to encode a logic 0. Accordingly a bit may be encoded at each transition by controlling whether the signal is rotating clockwise or counter clockwise. For example a logic 1 may be encoded when the three wires transition from state A to state B and a logic 0 may be encoded when the three wires transition from state B to state A. In the simple three wire example depicted direction of rotation may be easily determined based on which of the three wires is undriven before and after the transition.

Information may also be encoded in polarity of the driven conductors or direction of current flow between two conductors . Signals and illustrate voltage levels applied to conductors respectively at each phase state in a three wire three phase link. At any time a first conductor is coupled to a positive voltage V for example a second conductor is coupled to a negative voltage V for example while the third conductor may be open circuited. As such one polarity encoding state may be determined by the current flow between the first and second conductors or the voltage polarities of the first and second conductors . In some embodiments two bits of data may be encoded at each phase transition. A decoder may determine rotation to obtain the first bit and the second bit may be determined based on the polarity. The decoder having determined direction of rotation can determine the current phase state and the polarity of the voltage applied between the two active connectors and or or the direction of current flow through the two active conductors and or

In the example of the three wire three phase link described herein one bit of data may be encoded in the rotation or phase change in the three wire three phase link and an additional bit may be encoded in the polarity of two driven wires. Certain embodiments encode more than two bits in each transition of a three wire three phase encoding system by allowing transition to any of the possible states from a current state. Given three rotational phases and two polarities for each phase 6 states are defined such that 5 states are available from any current state. Accordingly there may be log 5 2.32 bits per symbol transition and the mapper may accept a 16 bit word and convert it to 7 symbols.

N Phase data transfer may use more than three wires provided in a communication link or bus. The use of additional signal wires that can be driven simultaneously provides more combinations of states and polarities and allows more bits of data to be encoded at each transition between states. This can significantly improve throughput of the system and reduce the power consumption over approaches that use multiple differential pairs to transmit data bits while providing increased bandwidth.

In one example an encoder may transmit symbols using 6 wires with two pairs of wires driven for each state. The 6 wires may be labeled A through F such that in one state wires A and F are driven positive wires B and E negative and C and D are undriven or carry no current . For six wires there may be 

Of the 4 wires driven the possible combinations of two wires driven positive and the other two must be negative . The combinations of polarity may comprise 

Accordingly the total number of different states may be calculated as 15 6 90. To guarantee a transition between symbols 89 states are available from any current state and the number of bits that may be encoded in each symbol may be calculated as log 89 6.47 bits per symbol. In this example a 32 bit word can be encoded by the mapper into 5 symbols given that 5 6.47 32.35 bits.

The general equation for the number of combinations of wires that can be driven for a bus of any size as a function of the number of wires in the bus and number of wires simultaneously driven 

According to certain aspects disclosed herein a plurality of three state amplifiers can be controlled to produce a set of output states defined by a differential encoder an N phase polarity encoder or another encoder that encodes information in wires or connectors that can assume one of the three states described.

With reference again to the communication link may comprise a high speed digital interface that can be configured to support both differential encoding scheme and N phase polarity encoding. Physical layer drivers and may comprise N phase polarity encoders and decoders which can encode multiple bits per transition on the interface and line drivers to drive connectors and . The line drivers may be constructed with amplifiers that produce an active output that can have a positive or negative voltage or a high impedance output whereby a connector or is in an undefined state or a state that is defined by external electrical components. Accordingly the output drivers may receive by a pair of signals that includes data and output control high impedance mode control . In this regard the three state amplifiers used for N phase polarity encoding and differential encoding can produce the same or similar three output states. When used for differential encoding pairs of the three state amplifiers in a differential line driver or see may receive a same input signal and output control signal whereas each of the N phase polarity encoding line drivers receive individual inputs that define output state. According to certain aspects disclosed herein the inputs provided to each the N phase polarity encoding line driver may be controlled by logic and or switches such that pairs of the line drivers may be operated as a differential line driver and .

Certain embodiments provide a configurable interface that can selectively activate a desired number of wires to communicate data and or to reconfigure an M wire N Phase Polarity encoded interface to serve as a differential interface. illustrates an example in which mobile platform employs pin multiplexing to provide a reconfigurable communications interface. In the depicted example a display processor generates display data for a display device see . The display processor may be integrated with a processing circuit for example. With reference also to data may be transmitted through a communications link to a device that includes a display controller . The communications link may be configurable to comply with or be compatible with a MIPI standard DSI or an N Phase Polarity interface as described herein. shows an example configuration in which a switching element selects between the outputs of three differential drivers and the outputs of two three wire three phase encoders drivers to drive output pins . Other combinations and configurations of the output drivers drivers and encoders drivers may be supported. In one example the switching multiplexer may comprise a switching matrix that allows output pins to be mapped to any output of any differential driver or any output of any M wire N phase encoder.

When a MIPI DSI interface is configured display pixel data originating from display processor is provided to MIPI DSI Link Controller which formats the display pixel data into packets to be sent over a high speed serial interface to Display typically through device and or display controller . Both pixel data and control information may be transmitted over this interface . A reverse link may be provided for reading status from display or to receive other information.

Data packets generated by the MIPI DSI Link Controller in the digital core logic circuitry may be provided to a MIPI D PHY Pre Driver which may be realized in an input output section Pad Ring . The data packets may be provided to a set of output drivers through differential drivers and or an electronic switch multiplexer . The differential drivers may be enabled while N Phase drivers are disabled. In one example the N Phase drivers may be disabled when the N Phase drivers are forced or otherwise placed in high impedance output mode.

In another example the switch multiplexer may select between differential drivers and N Phase drivers to provide inputs to line drivers when N Phase Polarity encoding is required. The switch multiplexer may be operated to select the outputs of the N Phase drivers as inputs to the output line drivers . Alternatively or additionally the N Phase drivers may be enabled while differential drivers are disabled and vice versa. In this configuration data packets generated by MIPI DSI Link Controller may be encoded using an N Phase Polarity encoder and provided to N Phase Polarity pre driver .

The determination of whether one or more of the line drivers is in high impedance mode may be made by the encoder used to format data. In one example output control high impedance control of the line drivers may be controlled by the MIPI D PHY Pre Driver when the interface is driven in a differential encoding mode. In another example output control of the line drivers may be controlled by the N Phase Polarity pre driver when the interface is driven in N Phase Polarity encoding mode.

According to certain aspects described herein data packets similar to MIPI DSI packets are sent over an N Phase Polarity link. Some packets may be reformatted to make proper use of symbol groups on the N Phase Polarity link. For example a byte may be added to odd length packets when the MIPI DSI may be byte oriented while the N Phase Polarity link is configured for transferring 16 bit words at a time. Transmitters and receivers may be configurable to account for differences in link synchronization between N Phase Polarity encoding and differential encoding.

An M wire N phase link controller may provide input data words to data as input to a mapper cf. which maps the input word to a series of symbols to be sent over the bus. The mapper may be embodied in an encoding element . One purpose of the mapper is to compute the values of a group of symbols based on an input data word. This may be particularly useful if the number of bits per symbol is not an integer. In the simple example described in relation to a three wire three phase system is employed in which there are 3 possible combinations of 2 wires to be driven simultaneously given that one wire is undriven. There are also 2 possible combinations of polarity for each pair of wires that may be driven yielding 6 possible states. 5 of the 6 states are usable because a transition is required between any two symbols. With 5 states there may be log 5 2.32 bits per symbol. The mapper may accept a 16 bit word and convert it to 7 symbols.

Data packets generated by N Phase Polarity Adaptation Link Controller may be provided to N Phase Polarity Encoder to encode groups of link data for example 16 bit or 32 bit words into groups of symbols and outputs one symbol at a time to N Phase Polarity Pre Driver . In one example N Phase Polarity Adaptation Link Controller may be realized in Digital Core Logic and N Phase Polarity Encoder may be realized in the Pad Ring . The pre driver may amplify received input signals to a level sufficient to drive buffers and or Output Driver .

The switch multiplexer may select either MIPI D PHY Pre Driver output or N Phase Polarity Pre Driver output to be provided to Output Drivers . The switch multiplexer may transmit signals having a voltage or current level much lower than the output of Output Drivers . Accordingly the output signals from MIPI D PHY Pre Driver and or N Phase Polarity Pre Driver may be easily switched using an IC device. In some instances control signals that determine if one or more output drivers should be in a high impedance state may be switched using switch multiplexer or a related switching device.

The mode select state of the switch multiplexer may be set to a default or preconfigured selection when the system is powered up. Typically this state need be configured only once because the display may be permanently or semi permanently attached to the processing circuit see . Consequently the switch multiplexer may be configured during manufacture and the setting need not be changed during normal operation of the system. In one example the switch multiplexer may be addressed by a processor or through one or more configuration registers which may be non volatile. Code for programming the switch multiplexer may be stored in storage . The use of the switch multiplexer to switch low level signals permits the same application processor to be used for more than one interface without the need to duplicate I O pads or pins. The same I O pads or pins may therefore be used for more than one interface where programming of the switch multiplexer need only be performed once per system.

The principles of operation described in relation to may be applied in a wide variety of applications and a pin multiplexer may be employed to provide a flexible and reconfigurable communications link between different types of devices and in different types of apparatus including applications that are not governed by industry standards.

At step the one or more IC devices may select an encoder to generate encoded data consistent with the type of physical interface to be used for communicating between the two devices. The data may be communicated over a bus having a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling the two devices. The plurality of connectors may include at least some bidirectional connectors. The connectors may include electrical or optical connectors.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein the encoder may provide the encoded data in differentially encoded signals. Configuring the plurality of drivers to receive the encoded data may include causing one or more outputs of another encoder to enter a high impedance mode. The other encoder may include an N phase encoder.

According to certain aspects disclosed herein the selected encoder may provide the encoded data in a sequence of symbols encoded using a combination of a phase state of a first pair of the connectors a polarity of a second pair of connectors and a selection of at least one undriven connector. The first pair of the connectors may comprise the same wires as the second pair of connectors or at least one different wire. Configuring the plurality of drivers to receive the encoded data may include causing one or more outputs of a differential encoder to enter a high impedance mode.

At step the one or more IC devices may configure a plurality of drivers to receive the encoded data from the encoder and to drive a plurality of connectors communicatively coupling the two devices in accordance with the type of physical interface to be used for communicating between the two devices. The plurality of drivers may be configured by controlling a plurality of switches to couple outputs of the encoder to the plurality of drivers.

In an aspect of the disclosure the encoded data may relate to a camera or a display controlled by one of the two IC devices.

The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable storage medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing circuit to perform the various functions described supra for any particular apparatus. The computer readable storage medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software. The processing circuit further includes at least one of the modules circuits and . The modules may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable storage medium one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof.

In one configuration the apparatus for wireless communication includes means for determining an operational mode for communicating between the two IC devices means for selecting one of encoders to provide encoded data for transmission on the plurality of connectors and means for configuring a plurality of drivers to receive encoded data from the encoder and to drive the connectors and or wires . The aforementioned means may be one or more of the aforementioned modules of the apparatus and or the processing circuit of the apparatus configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means. The aforementioned means may be implemented for example using some combination of a processor or physical layer drivers or and storage media and .

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed as a means plus function unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for. 

