---

title: Reusable food container with re-sealable cap
abstract: Provided is a reusable food storage container, comprising a vessel that can store a food and/or beverage and a removable cap that closes the vessel. The cap can have a tube or other through-passage formed therein to enable a user to squeeze or draw out the contents of the vessel. The cap can include a mouthpiece and a plug to close the mouthpiece. The cap can be configured to make at least one of a seal, e.g., an airtight and/or water tight-seal, with the vessel, by being press fit into the top of the vessel. And the plug can be configured to close and seal the mouthpiece.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09254929&OS=09254929&RS=09254929
owner: Luft Industrie Inc.
number: 09254929
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131223
---
The present inventive concepts relate to the field of food containers and more particularly to the field of food containers with covers and caps.

Presently myriad forms of reusable food and beverage containers exist in the marketplace. As an example many types of water bottles or other drink containers exist. And many type of food storage containers exist. Some are geared for infants while others are geared for teens and adults. Some beverage containers are made with insulating properties e.g. travel coffee mugs and thermoses.

Reusable beverage containers can include screw type caps. In such cases the cap has a female threaded rim configured that corresponds to a male threaded opening of a vessel that holds the beverage. The cap is screwed off to provide access to the opening of the vessel and screwed on to close the opening or vice versa. Some food containers include snap on caps or lids or covers wherein the cap includes a recess that accommodates a corresponding protruding rim at the opening of the vessel e.g. as with a sandwich container.

With particular regard to beverage containers some such caps include a rigid mouthpiece through which a person can receive a beverage within the vessel such as with children s sippy cups. The rigid mouthpiece can be formed as part of the cap and immovable e.g. as a molded plastic cap. In other designs a pop cap is used where a mouthpiece has an open position and a closed position and the mouthpiece can be popped open from the closed position. These can be effective in preventing leakage of the vessel s contents and for preventing contamination of the container contents from entry of external matter.

Despite these various types of reusable food and beverage containers it would be beneficial to have a reusable food and beverage container that was configured to allow a user to easily form an airtight and or water tight seal between the cap and the vessel that is simple to use and cost effective. Such an container could further reduce the waste and environmental impacts of widely used disposable containers such as disposable food and beverage containers. That is in a world where all things single use are made of plastic there is a detrimental environmental impact particularly given the sales and distribution volume of such single use food and beverage containers.

Provided is a reusable food storage container comprising a vessel that can store a food and or beverage and a removable cap that closes the vessel. The cap can have a tube or other through passage formed therein to enable a user to squeeze or draw out the contents of the vessel. The cap can include a mouthpiece and a plug to close the mouthpiece. The cap can be configured to make a seal such as at least one of an airtight seal and water tight seal with the vessel when press fit into the top of the vessel. And the plug can preferably be configured to make an airtight seal and water tight seal with the mouthpiece.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure provided is a reusable food container comprising a vessel defining a food storage volume and having a top portion defining an opening and a re sealable cap configured to removably close the opening. The re sealable cap includes a bottom portion structured to form a press fit seal with the opening a mouthpiece configured to access food in the food storage volume through a food passage formed through the cap and a removable plug configured to close the mouthpiece.

In some embodiments the plug can be structured to form a press fit airtight seal with the mouthpiece.

In some embodiments the cap can be configured to form a press fit airtight seal with the vessel opening.

In some embodiments the cap bottom portion can include a cone shaped wall having an upper diameter greater than a lower diameter the vessel top portion can include a cone shaped interior wall having an upper diameter greater than a lower diameter the vessel top portion cone shaped wall can be configured to receive the cap bottom portion cone shaped wall the upper and lower diameters of the vessel top portion can be smaller e.g. slightly smaller than the upper and lower diameters of the cap bottom portion and the cap bottom portion cone shaped wall and the vessel top portion cone shaped wall can be configured to form an airtight and or water tight seal when the cap is press fit into the vessel opening.

In some embodiments a rim can be disposed at the upper diameter of the vessel top portion cone shaped wall and at the opening.

In some embodiments the cap bottom portion can further include a region with one or more protruding rings the vessel top portion can further include a region with one or more recessed rings and the recessed rings can be configured to receive the protruding rings.

In some embodiments a rim can circumscribe the vessel opening and the cap can further include a planar top portion from which the mouthpiece upwardly extends and the top portion can have a sufficient width to substantially cover the rim of the vessel when the cap is press fit into the vessel.

In some embodiments the cap top portion can further include a tab that takes the form of a lateral extension of the top portion that overhangs the rim more than other parts of the top portion.

In some embodiments the tab can include a set of vertical protrusions configured to facilitate gripping of the tab by a user.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention provided is a reusable food container comprising a vessel defining a food and beverage storage volume and having a rim defining an opening and a re sealable cap configured to form a press fit airtight seal closing the opening of the vessel. The cap includes a mouthpiece structured to provide access to the food and beverage storage volume through the cap when the cap is press fit into the vessel opening. The cap includes a cone shaped wall having an upper diameter greater than a lower diameter. The vessel includes a cone shaped wall having an upper diameter greater than a lower diameter. The vessel cone shaped wall is configured to receive the cap cone shaped wall. The upper and lower diameters of the vessel cone shaped wall are smaller e.g. slightly smaller than the upper and lower diameters of the cap cone shaped wall. The cap cone shaped wall and the vessel cone shaped cooperate to form an airtight and or water tight seal when the cap is press fit into the vessel opening.

In some embodiments the cap further can include a top portion that covers the vessel rim when the cap is press fit into the vessel.

In some embodiments the vessel cone shaped wall and the cap cone shaped wall can be made of silicone.

In some embodiments the cap can further include a region with one or more protruding rings the vessel can further include a region with one or more recessed rings and the recessed rings can be configured to receive the protruding rings.

In some embodiments at least one of the one or more protruding rings and the one or more recessed rings can be made of a compressible material.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention provided is a method of storing food in a reusable container. The method comprises providing a vessel defining a food storage volume having a top portion defining an opening and providing a re sealable cap configured to removably close the opening. The cap comprises a mouthpiece configured to access food in the food storage volume through a food passage formed through the cap a removable plug configured to close the mouthpiece and a bottom portion structured to form a press fit airtight seal with the vessel opening. The method further includes press fitting the cap bottom portion into the vessel opening top portion.

In some embodiments a rim can circumscribe the vessel opening and the cap can further include a planar top portion from which the mouthpiece upwardly extends and the top portion can have a sufficient width to substantially cover the rim of the vessel when the cap is press fit into the vessel.

In some embodiments the cap top portion further includes a tab that takes the form of a lateral extension of the top portion that overhangs the rim more than other parts of the top portion and the method further includes breaking the seal between the cap and the vessel by lifting the tab upward and away from the vessel.

In some embodiments the cap bottom portion can further include a region with one or more protruding rings and the vessel top portion can further include a region with one or more recessed rings. The method can further include the recessed rings receiving the protruding rings when the cap is press fit into the vessel.

Various exemplary embodiments will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some exemplary embodiments are shown. The present inventive concept may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used to describe an element and or feature s relationship to another element s and or feature s as for example illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use and or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below and or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. The device may be otherwise oriented e.g. rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

Exemplary embodiments are described herein with reference to cross sectional illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized exemplary embodiments and intermediate structures . As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus exemplary embodiments should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing.

Vessel defines an internal volume see and that can be used to hold food and or a beverage. The internal volume therefore can provide at least one storage compartment of the reusable food container . In this embodiment there is only one storage compartment within the internal volume . Vessel can include a bottom A a sidewall B and a top C. Top C includes a rim that defines an opening that enables access to internal volume of vessel e.g. for filing with a food and or beverage cleaning and so on. In this embodiment an interior circumference of rim and opening therefore are circular as shown in .

Cap can be a re sealable cap configured to removably close the opening to maintain a food and or beverage in the internal volume . Cap can be configured to create an airtight and or water tight seal with vessel .

In this embodiment the re sealable cap comprises a bottom portion a mouthpiece and a mouthpiece plug . A food passage e.g. a tube is formed within and through cap extending from bottom portion to mouthpiece . Mouthpiece plug is configured to removably close mouthpiece so a user can have selective access to the food and or beverage contents. In this embodiment plug is structured to form a pressure fit with mouthpiece and can be coupled to another portion of the cap with a tether . Preferably plug when engaged to close the mouthpiece prevents food and or beverage leakage from vessel through mouthpiece . Furthermore in some embodiments plug forms an airtight seal with mouthpiece . Plug can be removed or disengaged from mouthpiece by pulling up and away from the mouthpiece as shown by the double arrow X in in this embodiment.

Re sealable cap further includes a generally planar top portion from which mouthpiece upwardly extends or projects in this embodiment. Also in this embodiment top portion has sufficient width to overhang and cover rim of vessel when cap is engaged with vessel as shown in . Top portion also includes a tab which takes the form of an extension of the top portion that overhangs rim more than the other parts of top portion in this example embodiment. Here tab optionally includes a set of protrusions that can facilitate better gripping by a user e.g. between a finger and thumb of a user. Pulling on tab can enable a user to quickly and easily lift and remove cap from vessel while breaking the seal between the cap and vessel .

Bottom portion of cap is structured to form a pressure fit with the vessel opening . Accordingly at least one of bottom portion of cap and an inner region of the top portion C of vessel is preferably compressible i.e. made from a compressible memory material e.g. silicone rubber and other elastomeric materials. In some embodiments vessel and cap can be completely made of silicone e.g. molded silicone. In other embodiments one or both of the vessel top portion C and cap bottom portion or engaging portions of each can be made of silicone or the like.

In the preferred embodiment cap is inserted into vessel forming a pressure fit whereby a vessel female coupling interior of top portion C is smaller in diameter than a male bottom portion of cap . When the cap and vessel are pushed together an airtight and water tight seal between the two is formed such as is shown in . In some embodiments this can also create an airtight and or water tight seal.

Referring to reusable food container is shown with cap shown in solid view and vessel shown in cross sectional which is scaled up to better show features of the embodiment. The bottom portion of cap can be considered to be a male component and the inner structure of top portion C of vessel can be considered to be a corresponding female component forming a male female coupling when the bottom portion of cap is press fit into top portion C of vessel .

In particular bottom portion of cap and top portion C of vessel include several features that can create a seal that is also airtight and water tight. Bottom portion has an upper region and a lower region . Upper region is cone shaped with its wall sloping or angling upwardly and away from a central vertical axis Y. Here cone shaped can mean a truncated cone. Lower region is generally tubular comprising at least one outwardly protruding ring . In this embodiment there are two outwardly protruding rings A B. In other embodiments there could be more or less i.e. one or none outwardly protruding rings. In other embodiments lower region could be omitted altogether.

Top portion C of vessel includes features configured to mate with features of bottom portion of cap . In this embodiment top portion C includes an upper region that is also cone shaped with its wall sloping or angling upwardly and away from central vertical axis Y. The diameter D of cone shaped wall is slightly smaller than the diameter D of the cone shaped wall of the bottom portion of cap e.g. D can be more than 0 and less than about 2 smaller than D. This relationship between D and D can be maintained over a vertical portion of the cone shaped wall of vessel top portion C and the cone shaped wall of bottom portion of cap since such diameters diminish e.g. linearly going from top to bottom in in this embodiment. The cone shaped wall of bottom portion of cap and the cone shaped wall of the top portion C of vessel can have substantially the same angle with respect to central axis Y as shown in this embodiment.

Top portion C also includes a lower region that is generally tubular defining at least one recessed ring or ringed depression. In this embodiment there are two recessed rings A B. In other embodiments there could be more or less i.e. one or none recessed rings. In various embodiments the number of outwardly protruding rings and the number of recessed rings will be the same. In other embodiments lower region could be omitted altogether particularly if lower region of cap bottom portion is omitted.

In the preferred embodiment cap is pressed into the opening in vessel shown by the two downward pointing arrows. This downward motion can cause air inside vessel to be forced out between cone shaped wall and cone shaped wall as cap is inserted into vessel thus creating a seal which can help secure and hold cap in place. No other physical or structural elements need to be included to create the seal but the plug should be inserted to close mouthpiece . Further downward pressing of cap into opening of vessel causes outwardly protruding rings of cap to get seated into recessed rings of vessel owing to the pliability and or elasticity of outwardly protruding rings and or the inner portions of vessel top portion C. This is shown as examples in wherein cap is fully inserted into the vessel creating a seal between the two that can be a seal e.g. a water tight and or an airtight seal. To break the seal a user can pull up on tab of cap . Receipt of outwardly protruding rings of cap into recessed rings of vessel can further secure cap to vessel although cap can still be removed by lifting tab upward and away from vessel also breaking the seal between the two whether water tight and or airtight.

In accordance with the inventive concept there can be provided for example an all silicone food container that can be used as a reusable food and or beverage pouch where food or a beverage can be inserted and then the cap applied and subsequently the food and or beverage squeezed or drawn from the vessel through the cap . The plug style smaller cap plug is also pressure fit and needs to be removed before the food and or liquid can be drawn or squeezed through the cap e.g. via mouthpiece .

Today too many single use pouches are thrown into landfills and other pouches available are either all plastic e.g. a plastic film mouthpiece and cap or they are a silicone plastic hybrid with plastic caps collars etc. to help hold the item together. The present invention however with for example an all silicone design and pressure fit caps eliminates the need for any plastic components.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications can be made therein and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

