---

title: Method and arrangement in a wireless communication system
abstract: Also, a corresponding method and arrangement in a base station is described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09173203&OS=09173203&RS=09173203
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (Publ)
number: 09173203
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20130923
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 380 401 filed Dec. 22 2011 which corresponds to the national stage entry International Application PCT SE2010 050113 with an international filing date of Feb. 2 2010 and which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 221 179 filed Jun. 29 2009.

The present invention relates to a method and an arrangement in a base station and a method and an arrangement in a user equipment. In particular it relates to a mechanism for reducing load and interference on communication channels when transmitting scheduling requests.

Standardization for the fourth Generation 4G of cellular networks is on going under the name International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT Advanced . IMT Advanced promises the next generation mobile network with high data rates seamless connectivity and mobile communication within heterogeneous networks.

For many applications a short access delay plays a crucial role in providing a good end user performance. IMT Advanced latency requirements state that the one way radio access delay between the mobile terminal and the base station should be under 10 ms.

The Long Term Evolution LTE network defined by 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP provides improved bit rates with lower access delays as compared to the older technologies. For Release 8 user equipment units UEs the IMT Advanced delay target is reached if the user equipment unit is scheduled. If the user equipment needs to request resources the delay target is not reached.

The access technology of LTE is based on Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM in the downlink and Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA in the uplink.

In the present context the expression uplink is used for the transmission of signals from the user equipment to the base station while the expression downlink is used for transmission of signals in the opposite direction i.e. from the base station to the user equipment. The base station may further in an LTE environment be referred to as an eNodeB or eNB.

The resources are allocated either dynamically in 1 ms basis for the user equipments on both the downlink and the uplink or semi persistently over a longer period than 1 ms. The scheduling of resources is done by the eNB and it takes into account the user equipment data buffer as well as radio propagation characteristics of each user equipment.

The standard uplink scheduling procedure in LTE is shown in . When new data arrives to the empty user equipment buffer or the data that belongs to a higher priority logical channel group than existing data the user equipment triggers a Buffer Status Report BSR to report its buffer size. If the user equipment does not have uplink resources to transmit the buffer status report it triggers a Scheduling Request SR .

The scheduling request can be sent on a dedicated scheduling request channel D SR or on the contention based Random Access Channel RA SR . Use of the dedicated scheduling request channel requires that the user equipment is uplink synchronized and that the user equipment has been assigned a scheduling request channel on the Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH . The dedicated scheduling request resource is assigned with Radio Resource Control RRC protocol having a periodicity with current values of 5 10 20 40 and 80 milliseconds in LTE Release 8. In LTE Release 9 even shorter values than 5 milliseconds are possible. When the eNB has received the scheduling request it can schedule the user equipment and transmit an initial grant. Using the initial grant the user equipment can finally transmit the buffer status report with it.

In summary before the user equipment is scheduled multiple steps have to be taken. This increases the access delay in the uplink. When being in uplink synchronized the scheduling request periodicity in PUCCH is one of the biggest contributors in delay increase. To obtain best performance of certain applications the scheduling request periodicity should be selected to very short value.

In the 3GPP TS 36.321 MAC specification V8.6.0 the scheduling request is pending from the time when it is trigged until the time when it is cancelled. The scheduling request is cancelled when uplink scheduling resources are available for a new transmission.

When the scheduling request is pending during every subframe when the user equipment unit has valid scheduling request resources on PUCCH the user equipment unit instructs the physical layer to signal scheduling request. This leads to the physical transmission of the scheduling request. In the example depicted in the scheduling request periodicity is fixed to 5 ms and the first opportunity to transmit the scheduling request on PUCCH is in subframe t. After the eNB has received the scheduling request a typical processing time of 3 ms is assumed before the user equipment unit is scheduled and the grant is transmitted. The user equipment unit has a next scheduling request opportunity in 5 ms later at t. Because the user equipment unit has not cancelled the scheduling request yet it will retransmit it. As a result configuring the scheduling request periodicity to 5 ms leads to physical transmission of the scheduling request at least twice. This generates a significant unnecessary load on PUCCH.

The mechanism that the transmission of scheduling requests is prohibited is known as well as configuration of such mechanism by the network see WO 2009038381 A2 METHOD OF RESTRICTING SCHEDULING REQUEST FOR EFFECTIVE DATA TRANSMISSION. However in WO 2009038381 A2 the only mentioned condition when the transmission of scheduling request is prohibited is when the uplink synch i.e. Time Alignment timer is expected to expire soon or when the overall number of scheduling request transmissions has exceeded a certain number. The idea of WO 2009038381 A2 is instead to start random access if scheduling request is prohibited.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a mechanism for improving the performance in a wireless communication system.

According to a first aspect of the present invention the object is achieved by a method in a user equipment for transmitting scheduling requests to a base station. The base station is adapted to serve the user equipment. The user equipment further comprises a scheduling request transmission trigger and is configured to transmit scheduling requests to the base station. However the scheduling requests are transmitted only at certain predetermined scheduling request opportunities. The method comprises starting the scheduling request transmission trigger. Also a scheduling request is transmitted to the base station at the next occurring scheduling request opportunity as a response to the started trigger. Further a scheduling request prohibiting timer comprised in the user equipment is started when the scheduling request is transmitted to the base station for the first time. In addition any further scheduling request retransmission at future scheduling request opportunities are prohibited while the scheduling request prohibiting timer is running.

According to a second aspect of the present invention the object is achieved by an arrangement in a user equipment for transmitting scheduling requests to a base station. The base station is adapted to serve the user equipment. The user equipment further comprises a scheduling request transmission trigger and is configured to transmit scheduling requests to the base station. However the scheduling requests are transmitted only at certain predetermined scheduling request opportunities. The arrangement comprises a scheduling request transmission trigger. The scheduling request transmission trigger is configured to trigger a scheduling request transmission. Also the arrangement comprises a transmitter. The transmitter is configured to transmit a scheduling request to the base station at the next occurring scheduling request opportunity as a response to the started trigger. In addition the arrangement further also comprises a scheduling request prohibiting timer. The scheduling request prohibiting timer is configured to start when the scheduling request is transmitted and to prohibit any further scheduling request retransmission at future scheduling request opportunities while the scheduling request prohibiting timer is running.

According to a third aspect of the present invention the object is achieved by a method in a base station for assisting a user equipment in transmitting scheduling requests to the base station. The base station is adapted to serve the user equipment. The user equipment is configured to transmit scheduling requests to the base station only at certain predetermined scheduling request opportunities. The method comprises determining a factor k to be transmitted to the user equipment enabling the user equipment to calculate a scheduling request prohibiting timer length. Further the method also comprises transmitting the determined factor k to the user equipment. In addition the method further comprises scheduling the user equipment when a scheduling request is received from the user equipment.

According to a fourth aspect of the present invention the object is achieved by an arrangement in a base station for assisting a user equipment in transmitting scheduling requests to the base station. The base station is adapted to serve the user equipment. The user equipment is configured to transmit scheduling requests to the base station only at certain predetermined scheduling request opportunities. The arrangement comprises a determination unit. The determination unit is configured to determine a factor k to be transmitted to the user equipment in order for the user equipment to calculate a scheduling request prohibiting timer length. Further the arrangement comprises a transmitter. The transmitter is configured to transmit the determined factor k to the user equipment. Additionally the arrangement comprises a scheduler. The scheduler is configured to schedule the user equipment when a scheduling request is received from the user equipment.

By starting a scheduling request prohibit timer when the user equipment has transmitted the scheduling request on PUCCH first time the load on PUCCH can be reduced significantly. Further by configuring scheduling request prohibit timers for different user equipments with different lengths the retransmissions of scheduling requests are distributed in time as well. Thus the performance of the wireless communication system is improved.

Other objects advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention.

The invention is defined as a method and an arrangement in a user equipment and a method and an arrangement in a base station which may be put into practice in the embodiments described below. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and is not to be considered as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

Still other objects and features of the present invention may become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference is to be made to the appended claims. It is further to be understood that the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale and that unless otherwise indicated they are merely intended to conceptually illustrate the structures and procedures described herein.

The wireless communication system comprises a base station and a user equipment adapted to communicate with each other over at least one radio channel within a cell. It will be appreciated that the wireless communication system typically may comprise numerous other nodes such as other base station nodes and in some embodiments other nodes such as control nodes and the like. Only a strictly limited selection of nodes are shown in for sake of simplicity.

The base station may be referred to as e.g. a NodeB an evolved Node B eNode B or eNB a base transceiver station Access Point Base Station base station router or any other network unit capable to communicate with the user equipment within the cell depending e.g. of the radio access technology and terminology used. In the rest of the description the term base station will be used for the base station in order to facilitate the comprehension of the present methods and arrangements.

The base station comprises one or more transceivers which is are configured to transmit a frame of information for transmission over a radio interface. For downlink transmission to the user equipment the transceiver s feed plural antennae which function to provide plural sub carriers. The transceiver s thereby transmits symbols of the subframes of the frame on the downlink on plural sub carriers in a frequency domain.

The base station may also comprise a base station frame handler according to some embodiments. The subframe handler may be configured to prepare or format the frame of information for transmission by transceiver s on a downlink to the user equipment . The optional base station frame handler has access to or may in some implementations comprise resource manager scheduler. The resource manager scheduler maintains and allocates resources for the user equipment and other user equipment units not illustrated and schedules resources. One of the types of resources which is supervised by resource manager scheduler are Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH resources. The PUCCH carries uplink control information and supports multiple formats.

The user equipment may be represented by e.g. a wireless communication terminal a mobile cellular phone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a wireless platform a laptop a computer or any other kind of device capable to communicate wirelessly with the base station .

The user equipment shown in may comprise transceiver s. The transceiver s may comprise or be connected to user equipment antennas. The user equipment may also comprise a user equipment frame handler according to some embodiments. The wireless terminal frame handler may receive and process downlink subframes and may prepare and format uplink subframes. At least one of the uplink subframes prepared by user equipment frame handler and transmitted by transceiver s from user equipment to base station carries the Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH .

The user equipment may also comprise a scheduling request prohibit timer which is configured and serves to prohibit the user equipment unit from transmitting the scheduling request too early after the previous scheduling request attempt.

In the following the present methods and arrangements are further elaborated with specific reference to IMT Advanced systems and more particularly with respect to the uplink in IMT Advanced i.e. for the link from the user equipment to the base station . However it is obvious to a skilled person that corresponding concepts could also be applied in other wireless communication systems .

The present methods and arrangements provide a scheduling request prohibit timer which is started when the user equipment has transmitted a scheduling request on PUCCH to the base station for the first time. The idea of the scheduling request prohibit timer is to prohibit the user equipment to transmit the scheduling request too early after the previous scheduling request attempt.

Thereby may the load on PUCCH be reduced significantly as redundant scheduling requests are not transmitted. Further according to some embodiments scheduling request prohibit timers for different user equipment may be configured with different timer lengths. Thereby retransmissions of scheduling requests from different user equipment are distributed in time such that collision between user equipment transmissions may be avoided.

Data is received in the user equipment buffer. The reception and or detection of data to transmit in the user equipment buffer triggers the transmission of a scheduling request SR to the base station . The scheduling request SR is used for requesting uplink scheduling resources for transmission of the received detected data.

However the user equipment is only allowed to transmit scheduling requests SR at certain predetermined scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t . There may be an infinite number of possible predetermined scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t or a limited number of scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t wherein t is limited to t max according to different embodiments.

Thus a scheduling request SR has been triggered due to received data in the user equipment buffer. In the illustrated example in the triggered scheduling request SR is not allowed to be transmitted until the next possible scheduling request opportunity t. Thereby the scheduling request SR is to be considered as pending until it is cancelled.

All pending scheduling requests SR may be cancelled and scheduling request prohibit timer may be stopped when a data is assembled and this data comprises a buffer status report which comprises buffer status up to the last event that triggered a buffer status report or when the uplink grant can accommodate all pending data available for transmission.

If the user equipment has no valid PUCCH resource for transmitting a scheduling request SR configured in any predetermined scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t a Random Access procedure may be initialised and all pending scheduling requests may be cancelled. Otherwise if the user equipment has a valid PUCCH resource for scheduling requests SR at least some predetermined scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t and no scheduling request prohibit timer is running the generated scheduling request SR may be transmitted at the next scheduling request opportunity t.

When the triggered scheduling request SR is transmitted at t on PUCCH the scheduling request prohibit timer is started. The scheduling request prohibit timer is comprised in the user equipment unit . When the scheduling request prohibit timer is running the user equipment unit is not allowed to retransmit the scheduling request SR. According to some embodiments the user equipment may set the scheduling request prohibit timer to 0 zero when a scheduling request SR is triggered and there is no other scheduling request SR pending.

When the scheduling request prohibit timer is expired the user equipment unit is allowed to re transmit the scheduling request SR on PUCCH again. The timer is stopped when it expires except when the user equipment unit cancels the scheduling request SR when also the scheduling request prohibit timer may be stopped.

The scheduling request prohibit timer may according to some embodiments be set to zero when it is initiated and then incremented for each passing time unit until a predetermined max timer value is reached. According to some embodiments however the scheduling request prohibit timer may be set to a predetermined max timer value when initiated and then counted down to zero or alternatively to any other predetermined minimum timer value is reached.

As long as the scheduling request prohibit timer is running the scheduling request SR is not resent. In the illustrated example in the scheduling request SR is cancelled in t t and t.

When the base station receives the scheduling request SR from the user equipment the base station schedules the user equipment . Thereby a grant may be generated and transmitted to the user equipment such that the user equipment may be allocated resources for uplink transmission of the data received in the user equipment buffer.

When the user equipment receives the grant the data is transmitted to the base station at the allocated resources.

In the illustration of the scheduling request prohibit timer expires before the scheduling request SR is cancelled. That is the scheduling request prohibit timer prohibits the user equipment unit from transmitting the scheduling request SR at subframe t and t. The scheduling request prohibit timer is stopped when it expires. After expiration of the scheduling request prohibiting timer the user equipment is allowed to transmit the pending scheduling request SR again.

Thus if the SR prohibit timer has expired and there is still pending scheduling requests SR they are allowed to be retransmitted. If the SR prohibit timer is stopped due to cancellation of scheduling requests SRs then there is no pending scheduling requests SRs but when a new triggered scheduling request SR arrives that may be transmitted and the SR prohibit timer may be started again etc.

A negative side of the scheduling request prohibit timer is that if the scheduling request SR is missed by the base station the re attempt is delayed. To avoid too long delays in the case of missed scheduling requests SR the scheduling request prohibit timer may not be too long according to some embodiments. On the hand introducing the scheduling request prohibit timer may decrease the load on PUCCH and thus the need for the retransmission of a scheduling request SR is smaller.

In addition to avoiding unnecessary scheduling requests SR and thus loading PUCCH too much the scheduling request prohibit timer could be utilized in spreading the re attempts of missed scheduling requests SR in the time domain. Consider that two user equipment units located in the neighbouring cells transmit the scheduling request SR on the same PUCCH resource at the same time. Due to interference the base station in the corresponding cells may cannot detect which user equipment was transmitting the scheduling request SR and thus do not schedule any of the user equipment . If these two user equipment units have the same scheduling request periodicity they make the retransmissions of the scheduling requests SR at the same time leading to high interference again. If these two user equipment units would have different scheduling request prohibit timer lengths then the correlation in the interference with the lag of scheduling request periodicity may be avoided.

The scheduling request prohibit timer can take various example embodiments and have differing implementations. The following are possible non limiting and non exhaustive example implementations and or configurations.

Example Implementation 1 The scheduling request prohibit timer length may be fixed to some common value such as e.g. 10 ms or the length of scheduling request periodicity.

Example Implementation 2 The scheduling request prohibit timer has a fixed length and it is configured by the base station with RRC. The possible value could be k multiplied with the scheduling request periodicity where k may be signalled by RRC. Having 4 different possible values of k 0 1 2 3 may give flexibility to the base station to decide how it would like the user equipment to behave according to some embodiments.

Example Implementation 3 The scheduling request prohibit timer length can be for example k l multiplied with the scheduling request periodicity where k is configured by the base station and the l is random part selected by the user equipment ranging between 0 1 . . . m . An example proper value for m could be 4 according to some embodiments.

Example Implementation 1 may be the simplest solution to avoid unnecessary scheduling requests SR. Example Implementation 2 may provide more flexibility to base station to configure different user equipment with different values and thus avoid reattempts of scheduling requests SR at the same time. It is also a way of handling the trade off between avoiding unnecessary reattempts and increasing delay for necessary reattempts where the trade off might be seen differently for different services. Finally having a random part in the scheduling request prohibit timer as is proposed in Example Implementation 3 the interference between neighbouring cells due to colliding re attempts of scheduling requests SR could be reduced.

The base station thus may configure the scheduling request prohibit timer so that the user equipment does not transmit an unnecessary scheduling request SR on PUCCH just after the previous attempt. In this way the load on PUCCH can be reduced and unnecessary interference avoided. In addition having a random part the scheduling request prohibit timer enables the scheduling request SR retransmission attempts of different user equipment to occur at different time.

The base station and the user equipment are comprised in a wireless communication system . The wireless communication system may be e.g. an IMT Advanced or LTE radio network and the base station may be e.g. an evolved node B eNB according to some embodiments.

To appropriately transmit scheduling requests SR to the base station the method may comprise a number of method steps .

It is however to be noted that some of the described method steps are optional and only comprised within some embodiments. Further it is to be noted that the method steps may be performed in a somewhat different chronological order and that some of them e.g. step and step or even all steps may be performed simultaneously or in an altered or rearranged chronological order. The method may comprise the following steps 

The scheduling request prohibiting timer may be configured with a scheduling request prohibiting timer length such that the scheduling request prohibiting timer expires when the configured scheduling request prohibiting timer length has passed after having started the scheduling request prohibiting timer .

The scheduling request transmission trigger is started. Thereby is a scheduling request transmission triggered which scheduling request SR is to be sent at the next occurring scheduling request opportunity t t t t t . . . t when the user equipment is allocated resources to transmit the scheduling request SR.

The scheduling request transmission trigger may be started when there is data in the user equipment buffer to send according to some embodiments.

A scheduling request SR is transmitted to the base station at the next occurring scheduling request opportunity t t t t t . . . t . The scheduling request SR is transmitted as a response to the started trigger .

The scheduling request prohibiting timer comprised in the user equipment is started. The scheduling request prohibiting timer is started when the scheduling request SR is transmitted to the base station for the first time.

The scheduling request prohibiting timer may be configured to a fixed scheduling request prohibiting timer length according to some embodiments.

The scheduling request prohibiting timer may be configured to a scheduling request prohibiting timer length equal to the time between two scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t multiplied with a factor k such that 

According to some embodiments may the scheduling request prohibiting timer be configured to a scheduling request prohibiting timer length which is equal to the time between two scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t multiplied with the result of the factor k operated by a random variable l such that 

The factor k may optionally be received from the base station . The random variable l may be randomly generated by the user equipment .

The factor k may be ranging between zero and infinity such that k 0 1 . . . wherein the factor k may be transmitted via Radio Resource Control RRC from the base station and wherein the scheduling request SR may be transmitted on a Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH .

Any further scheduling request retransmission are prohibited at any future scheduling request opportunity t t t t t . . . t while the scheduling request prohibiting timer is running i.e. is not stopped.

Thereby by not resending scheduling requests SR the traffic load on the channel reduced which leads to an overall improved capacity within the wireless communication network .

The scheduling request prohibiting timer is stopped when the scheduling requests SR are cancelled or when the scheduling request prohibiting timer is expired.

In order to perform the method steps correctly the user equipment arrangement comprises a plurality of units such as e.g. a scheduling request transmission trigger . The scheduling request transmission trigger is configured to trigger a scheduling request transmission. Further the user equipment arrangement comprises a transmitter . The transmitter is configured to transmit a scheduling request SR to the base station at the next occurring scheduling request opportunity t t t t t . . . t as a response to the triggered scheduling request transmission. Also additionally the arrangement comprises a scheduling request prohibiting timer . The scheduling request prohibiting timer is configured to start when the scheduling request SR is transmitted first time and to prohibit any further scheduling request retransmission at future scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t while the scheduling request prohibiting timer is running i.e. is not stopped.

According to some embodiments the arrangement may further comprise a configuring unit . The optional configuring unit is adapted to configure the scheduling request prohibiting timer with a scheduling request prohibiting timer length such that the scheduling request prohibiting timer expires when the configured scheduling request prohibiting timer length has passed after having started the scheduling request prohibiting timer . The configuring unit may receive the scheduling request prohibiting timer length from the base station according to some embodiments. However according to some embodiments the scheduling request prohibiting timer length may be predetermined or calculated based on a scheduling request prohibiting timer length received from the base station .

Further according to some embodiments the arrangement may comprise a receiver . The receiver is configured for receiving signals from the base station .

According to some embodiments the arrangement may optionally comprise a buffer . The buffer is configured to receive and contain data to be transmitted.

In further addition the arrangement may comprise a transmitter . The transmitter is configured to transmit signals e.g. to the base station according to some embodiments.

Also furthermore the arrangement may comprise a frame handler . The frame handler is configured to receive and process the downlink subframes and prepare and format the uplink subframes.

Optionally the arrangement further also may comprise a processor . The processor may be represented by e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a processing unit a microprocessor or other processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. The processor may perform all data processing functions for inputting outputting and processing of data including data buffering and device control functions such as call processing control user interface control or the like.

It is to be noted that any internal electronics of the user equipment and or the user equipment arrangement not completely necessary for understanding the present method according to the method steps has been omitted from for clarity reasons. Further it is to be noted that some of the described units comprised within the arrangement in the user equipment are to be regarded as separate logical entities but not with necessity separate physical entities. To mention just one example the receiver and the transmitter may be comprised or co arranged within the same physical unit a transceiver which may comprise a transmitter circuit and a receiver circuit which transmits outgoing radio frequency signals and receives incoming radio frequency signals respectively via an antenna. The radio frequency signals transmitted between the base station and the user equipment may comprise both traffic and control signals e.g. paging signals messages for incoming calls which may be used to establish and maintain a voice call communication with another party or to transmit and or receive data such as SMS e mail or MMS messages with a remote user equipment.

The method steps in the user equipment may be implemented through one or more processors in the user equipment together with computer program code for performing the functions of the present method steps . Thus a computer program product such as e.g. a computer program storage medium may comprise instructions for performing the method steps in the user equipment and may transmit scheduling requests SR to the base station .

The physical and tangible computer program product mentioned above may be provided for instance in the form of a data carrier carrying computer program code for performing the method steps according to the present solution when being loaded into the processor . The data carrier may be e.g. a hard disk a CD ROM disc a memory stick an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any other appropriate medium such as a disk or tape that can hold machine readable data. The computer program code can furthermore be provided as program code on a server and downloaded to the user equipment remotely e.g. over an Internet or an intranet connection.

Further a computer program product comprising instructions for performing at least some of the method steps may be used for implementing the previously described method in the user equipment for transmitting scheduling requests SR to a base station when the computer program product is run on a processor comprised within the user equipment .

To appropriately assist the user equipment in transmitting scheduling requests SR to the base station the method may comprise a number of method steps . It is to be noted that the method steps may be performed in a somewhat different chronological order and that some of them may be performed simultaneously or in an altered or rearranged chronological order. The method may comprise the following steps 

A factor k to be transmitted to the user equipment enabling the user equipment to calculate a scheduling request prohibiting timer length is determined.

The base station is adapted to serve the user equipment . The user equipment is configured to transmit scheduling requests SR to the base station only at certain predetermined scheduling request opportunities t t t t t . . . t . The base station and the user equipment are comprised in a wireless communication system . The wireless communication system may be e.g. an IMT Advanced or LTE radio network and the base station may be e.g. an evolved node B eNB according to some embodiments.

In order to perform the method steps the arrangement comprises a plurality of units such as e.g. a determination unit . The determination unit is configured to determine a factor k to be transmitted to the user equipment in order for the user equipment to calculate a scheduling request prohibiting timer length. Further the arrangement comprises a transmitter . The transmitter is configured to transmit the determined factor k to the user equipment . Additionally the arrangement comprises a scheduler . The scheduler is configured to schedule the user equipment when a scheduling request SR is received from the user equipment .

Further optionally according to some embodiments the base station arrangement may comprise a receiver . The receiver may be configured to receive a signal from the user equipment . Also according to some embodiments the arrangement may comprise a scheduling request prohibit timer configuring unit .

Optionally the arrangement further also may comprise a processor . The processor may be represented by e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a processing unit a microprocessor or other processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. The processing unit may perform all data processing functions for inputting outputting and processing of data including data buffering and device control functions such as call processing control user interface control or the like.

It is to be noted that any internal electronics of the base station and or the base station arrangement not completely necessary for understanding the present method according to the method steps has been omitted from for clarity reasons. Further it is to be noted that some of the described units comprised within the arrangement in the base station are to be regarded as separate logical entities but not with necessity separate physical entities. To mention just one example the receiver and the sender may be comprised or co arranged within the same physical unit a transceiver which may comprise a transmitter circuit and a receiver circuit which transmits outgoing radio frequency signals and receives incoming radio frequency signals respectively via an antenna. The radio frequency signals transmitted between the base station and the user equipment may comprise both traffic and control signals e.g. paging signals messages for incoming calls which may be used to establish and maintain a voice call communication with another party or to transmit and or receive data such as SMS e mail or MMS messages with any remote user equipment.

The present mechanism for assisting a user equipment in sending scheduling requests SR may be implemented through one or more processors in the base station arrangement depicted in together with computer program code for performing the method steps of the present solution. The program code mentioned above may also be provided as a computer program product for instance in the form of a data carrier carrying computer program code for performing the present solution when being loaded into the base station . One such carrier may be in the form of a memory stick. It is however feasible with other data carriers. The computer program code may furthermore be provided as program code on a server and downloaded to the base station remotely.

When using the formulation comprise or comprising it is to be interpreted as non limiting i.e. meaning consist at least of . The present invention is not limited to the above described preferred embodiments. Various alternatives modifications and equivalents may be used. Therefore the above embodiments are not to be taken as limiting the scope of the present invention which is defined by the appending claims.

