---

title: Integrating energy budgets for power management
abstract: Power consumption of a device (e.g., flash storage driver, hard drive, etc.) connected to a host computer system is managed to promote efficient power usage and improved service. Communication between a host computer system (e.g., an operating system) and a device is enabled so that the host system can ascertain a power footprint of the device. Taking the power footprint of the device into consideration, along with the power consumption of the system as a whole (e.g., including the power consumption needs of other devices), a power manager can provide a power budget to the device based upon an informed decision. This allows for improved system power management through a coordination of the device's power consumption by the host system, specifically during operation allowing device performance to be enhanced for the task at hand.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09261933&OS=09261933&RS=09261933
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09261933
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130408
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 465 362 filed on May 13 2009 entitled INTEGRATING ENERGY BUDGETS FOR POWER MANAGEMENT at least some of which may be incorporated herein.

A typical computer can be comprised of a many different hardware and software components. A particular software component called an operating system acts an interface between a computer s user and the computer s hardware components. As an interface the operating system is generally responsible for coordinating and manipulating the computer s hardware components to perform an operation requested by the user. The operating system achieves these goals by using communication protocols which allow for interaction between a computer s software e.g. the operating system and hardware components. Communication protocols allow the operating system to provide operating instructions to the hardware such as when to turn on when to turn off at what speed to operate etc.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things a technique for managing the power consumption of a device e.g. flash memory storage drive SATA solid state disk hard drive etc. connected to a host computer system host system is disclosed. The method provides for a communication protocol providing interaction between the host computer system e.g. a software operating system and the device e.g. a hardware device which allows the host system to ascertain the power footprint e.g. the power consumption of the device and or the power policies governing the internal device operations of the device. Taking the power footprint of the device into consideration along with the power consumption of the system as a whole e.g. including the power footprint of other devices a power manager can provide a power budget e.g. energy allotment power policy to the device through an informed decision based upon reported power footprints and or requirements. This allows for improved system power management through a coordination of the device s power consumption by the host system.

More particularly a host computer system host system queries a device through a communication protocol to ascertain the device s identity e.g. a flash drive SATA solid state disk CD ROM drive etc. . The host system receives the device s identity and obtains information regarding the identified device s power footprint e.g. power consumption power profile . The information regarding the identified device s power footprint can be utilized by the power manager in conjunction with algorithms configured to determine an overall power consumption of the host system to make a decision as to a power budget comprising an allotment of power the identified device may operate with e.g. host system determines how much of a system s power can be allocated to the device s operation and or a power profile that governs the device s internal operations. In determining the power budget the power manager may take into consideration parameters such as the power supply available the power load of other devices etc. The power budget is returned to the device through the communication protocol thereby forming a power management system in which communication between devices and their host systems e.g. operating systems allow for an intelligently designed power consumption based upon an informed decision. Providing for an intelligently designed power management system allows a host system to reduce its power consumption while providing improved service e.g. during operation it allows a specific device s performance to be enhanced for the task at hand .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and components are illustrated in block diagram or flow diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In recent years the integrated chip industry has made enormous strides in increasing the performance of integrated chips while reducing their size and power consumption. These improvements have lead to high performance computers high powered servers and sophisticated storage devices. However this increased functionality often requires more sophisticated power management to prevent a drain on the power supply of a system which limits the operation of the system e.g. reduces operation time reduces performance etc. . For example sophisticated storage devices push the envelope for performance reliability and capacity. However in order to make these gains the storage devices often have to compensate with sophisticated internal processes that use power. Accordingly a power management system is described herein which offers an improvement in device power consumption management.

Among other things a technique for managing the power consumption of a device e.g. flash storage drive SATA solid state disk hard drive etc. connected to a host computer system host system is disclosed. The method and corresponding structure provide for a communication protocol providing interaction between the host computer system e.g. a software operating system and the device e.g. a hardware device which allows the host system to ascertain the power footprint e.g. the power consumption and requirements of the device for specific operations and or the power policy governing internal device power policies . Taking the power footprint of the device into consideration along with the power consumption of the system as a whole e.g. including the power footprint of other devices a power manager can provide a power budget e.g. energy allotment power policy to the device through an informed decision based upon reported power footprints and or requirements. This allows for improved system power management through a coordination of the device s power consumption by the host system.

More particularly a host computer system host system queries a device through a communication protocol to ascertain the device s identity e.g. a flash drive SATA solid state disk CD ROM drive device vendor device model firmware revision etc. . The host system receives the device s identity and obtains information regarding the identified device s power footprint e.g. power consumption power profile . The information regarding the identified device s power footprint can be utilized by the power manager in conjunction with algorithms configured to determine an overall power consumption of the host system to make a decision as to a power budget comprising an allotment of power the identified device may operate with e.g. host system determines how much of a system s power can be allocated to the device s operation and or a power profile to govern the device s internal operations. In determining the power budget the power manager may take into consideration parameters such as the power supply available the power load of other devices etc. The power budget is returned to the device through the communication protocol thereby forming a power management system in which communication between devices and their host systems e.g. operating systems allow for an intelligently designed power consumption based upon an informed decision. Providing for an intelligently designed power management system allows a host system to reduce its power consumption while providing improved service e.g. during operation it allows a specific device s performance to be enhanced for the task at hand .

The power manager comprises the part of the host system that contains algorithms for determining how much power the host system as a whole is going to use. As described above the power manager may be configured to receive a power footprint e.g. power consumption power policy through a communication protocol e.g. provided by the driver between the device and the power manager . The power manager utilizes the received power footprint to determine a power budget e.g. energy allotment power policy for the device . The power manager may comprise an operating system which provides an interface between a host system s user and the host system s hardware e.g. device for example.

The driver may be broadly defined to comprise layers between a host system s software e.g. power manager and hardware e.g. device . The driver provides for a communication protocol that allows for the power manager to communicate with the device monitors a user s usage etc. The communication protocol also allows the driver to obtain usage patterns or power footprints. The power footprint of a device can be read in from an information source . It will be appreciated that the information source can come from any one or more of a number of places either internal or external to the device or both. For example the information may come internally from an original equipment manufacturer OEM e.g. be embedded within a flash drive itself read in from an external database accessible for example via a network provided internally and or externally via updates to an operating system obtained dynamically from the device itself etc. That is the information source may be local to e.g. stored upon the device where this internal source may itself be periodically updated e.g. via an external source and or from a source external to the device or both.

The structure of allows for communication between the host system and the device that provides the power manager with a power footprint that can be used to make informed decisions about a power budget of a device. This can facilitate a particular power consumption by allowing a device to perform within the power budget thereby forming a system wherein the actions of the host system and attached devices are conformed to the available power supply allowing a system to operate within its boundaries. This may for example allow a host system to provide a power budget so that one or more operations can be performed on a laptop merely using the laptop s battery. For example some operations could be suspended so that a file could be successfully copied before the remaining charge on the laptop battery is completely consumed.

For example by providing a power budget comprising an energy allotment e.g. a specific amount of energy by which to operate to a device the device may conform its operation to the allotment by reduce its operating power by performing an operation at a slower speed. In this way the power manager can control the overall system power consumption by setting a particular energy allotment for respective devices to operate.

Similarly by providing a power budget comprising a power policy e.g. increasing or reducing the possible operations the device may perform to those operations that conform to the set power budget the power manager can directly control the device s power consumption by controlling its internal operations in real time. For example based upon the available power a power manager can allow a device to operate according to a policy e.g. that the system is idle within the allotted power amount that is sufficient to perform an operation according to the policy.

It will be appreciated that these concepts may be expanded upon while comprising the idea of device control by an informed power manager. For example a power manager may receive a request issued from a device to make changes in the internal power policy being used by the device. The power manager can either allow or deny the requested change based upon the received power footprints.

Device power budgets may also allow for a more accurate prediction of the remaining battery time for example e.g. by eliminating some of the guesswork and instead knowing more precisely the actual power consumption . This remaining battery time can be displayed to the user to provide an accurate representation of remaining power and allow for assessments of whether or not an operation can be completed.

It will be appreciated that a power manager can also dynamically account for variations in the device s power footprint. For example information can be obtained dynamically to account for changes in a device s power footprint over time e.g. a device s power footprint may change depending on what actions the device is taking . For example a CD ROM drive will have a different power footprint if it is idle if it is reading a CD if it is burning a CD at a first speed or if it is burning a CD at a second speed etc. During the course of a user s operation the CD may change operations multiple times requiring different amounts of energy. Obtaining information by employing a dynamic monitoring method allows for the power footprint of a device to be managed in real time.

At a power manager queries the device. The query will be communicated to the device through a driver via a communication protocol which makes it possible for the identity of the device to be provided to the power manager. The identity of the device allows the host system to recognize the device for subsequent processes. It will be appreciated that the term device as used herein may refer to various devices which are internally or externally coupled to the host system and which can be communicated with via a communication protocol which makes it possible for the host system and the device to have a conversation. For example the device may be comprised within the computer or attached to the host system via a system bus storage bus and or device bus through an interface such as a universal serial bus USB interface a serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface a peripheral component interconnect PCI interface e.g. Non Volatile Memory Host Controller Interface NVMHCI controllers etc. More particularly the device may comprise a hard drive a tape drive a flash drive SATA solid state disk a monitor etc. The device may also comprise an intelligent device that is able to make decisions about its power footprint. It will be appreciated that the power management system provided herein can be transparent regardless of what the device is thereby allowing it to operate with various devices.

It will also be appreciated that the power manager may also query more than one device. Additionally in the case of multiple devices identification of the devices allows the power manager to treat the devices differently thereby providing individualized and or collective power budget to respective devices.

Information pertaining to the power footprint e.g. power consumption or power policies of the device is obtained at . The information may be obtained via the communication protocol. The information pertaining to power footprint may comprise such information on how much power is being consumed what power policies are being run by the device what the device is capable of what is the power budget for respective capabilities of the device how much power it will cost to move power states how long a device must use a power policy before there is a net power benefit etc. The information can be obtained from one or more of a plurality of information sources depending on the capabilities of the device. If the device is intelligent enough to talk to the communication protocol a dynamic method can be used to dynamically track the device s power footprint. Alternatively a device s power footprint may be obtained from a device specification provided by an original equipment manufacturer OEM from a profile configuration file sent out during updates of an operating system e.g. provided by empirical testing performed in a lab from an online database etc.

It will be appreciated that a device s power footprint may be obtained from multiple information sources. For example the power footprint of a device can change over time e.g. the power consumption of a device performing one operation may be different than the power consumption of the device performing another operation a device may become less efficient and consume more power over time as it and or parts thereof wear . To account for this change a device s power footprint may be initially provided in a non dynamic way e.g. by OEM specifications . The information may be later updated based upon information from different sources such as from dynamically monitoring the device s power footprint. This allows for adjustments to be made to the power manager while the device is in the field.

At user data may be blended with the power footprint of a device. The host system e.g. driver may be configured to monitor a user s usage patterns e.g. hardware usage pattern power consumption patterns a subsystem s usage pattern e.g. flash drive usage pattern CD ROM usage pattern ancillary internal memory usage pattern etc. and or a device s usage pattern and aggregate the monitored information into a profile. The information contained in the profile can be correlated with the power footprint of a device to predict a future power footprint of the device. For example as the power manager gathers information about a user or knows specifically what the user is trying to do the power manager can take that information into account and change the device s usage based on an upcoming operations deduced from the user s usage pattern.

A power budget is determined at . The power budget may comprise an energy allotment and or a power policy wherein the energy allotment provides an energy amount for device operation and the power policy governs a device s internal operations. The power budget may be determined by the power manager by employing the power footprint in conjunction with algorithms configured to determine an overall power consumption of the host system. It will be appreciated that the overall power consumption may take into account other devices and may vary depending on operations the user performs with respective devices. For example in a system comprising a CD ROM drive and a flash drive the CD ROM drive may receive a larger than normal energy allotment and the flash drive a smaller than normal energy allotment when the CD ROM drive is in use.

The computed power budget is provided to the identified device at . The power budget may be provided to the device via the communication protocol. The device may proceed to operate according to the provided power budget until another power budget is received from the power manager.

The power consumption information collected by the method of can also allow the power management system to take into consideration the residency of a device e.g. the power cost of moving a device from one power budget to another . The power management system can weigh the benefit of switching the power budget e.g. how much power can be saved by switching against how much power it will take to perform the switch. In one example the power cost of moving a device from one power budget to another may be large enough to make it necessary for the device to stay at that power budget for a certain amount of time before a net power benefit is achieved and the device can be moved to another power budget. These considerations can effect whether or not a switch in power budget is performed.

The communication diagram starts with the power manager sending a query by way of a communication protocol provided by the driver to the device at . In one example the query may be issued when power is provided to a host system. In another example the query may be issued when a new device is added to the system e.g. when a device is attached to a USB port of a host computer . In yet another example the query may be issued at other times throughout operation of the system. That is it is to be appreciated that such a query may be issued at any time.

The device communicates the device s identity back to the power manager through the communication protocol at .

The power manager then requests a device s power footprint at . The driver will obtain the power footprint and return it to the power manager at . As illustrated in the power footprint is obtained by the driver . It will be appreciated that the driver may read the power footprint from different sources for example using the same communication protocol to read the footprint from the device itself and or using a separate communication protocol to read the power footprint from an information source external to the host system.

Once a power footprint is received by the power manager at the power manager makes a decision as to the power budget of device relying upon algorithms configured to determine an overall power consumption of the host system. Once the power budget of the device is determined a power budget may be communicated to the device at .

If the power footprint of the device is dynamically monitored the communications below line e.g. actions can be cyclically repeated to provide a dynamically updated power budget for the device .

Furthermore the host system may be configured to provide not only provide the needed energy to complete the operation but may also provide alternative energy options to cleanly suspend or to cleanly cancel an operation e.g. as opposed to a surprise interrupt by loss of power .

As illustrated in Table 1 a host system running on a limited power supply e.g. a battery can utilize a received power footprint from a device to determine if the host system has sufficient power to complete an operation. As shown in Table 1 the host system will assess the power configuration of the system e.g. how much power the system has and how much power an operation will take and accordingly take an action. For example as illustrated in table 1 if the host system has enough power to complete an operation the host system will proceed with the operation without interruption. However if the host system has enough power to just suspend an operation the host system will suspend the operation. Table 1 illustrates other exemplary power configurations and host system actions. It will be appreciated that a host system may execute more than one of the below operations.

In a particular example the host system can be configured to provide messages to the user in regard to the power consumption of the system. For example for a laptop running on a battery has a limited power supply. Based upon the obtained power footprint of a device attached to the laptop the power manager may calculate the power a device will consume to perform an operation. If the power the device will consume is greater than the laptop s power supply e.g. battery the system can send a message to the laptop s user alerting them that they do not have enough power to perform the operation and that unless they unless they promptly reconnect the alternative power source e.g. a wall plug the operation will be cancelled. If the user reconnects the alternative power source the operation completes otherwise the operation is cancelled when a timeout is reached.

As provided herein the power manager may also make decisions as to when how and or whether a device is to operate where this decision may take into consideration other current power demands placed on the system e.g. by other concurrently running devices . That is the decision as to when how and or whether to operate a device may also be based upon the overall power consumption of the host system. For example when a host system has a sufficiently large power supply multiple devices may operate normally. However if the power supply of the host system is restricted e.g. a laptop running off of its battery the power manager may have to restrict the operation of one or more devices.

It will be appreciated that in addition to being applicable to a single client device e.g. a laptop the power management system provided herein may also be integrated into a host computer system comprising multiple components that consume power such as a high performance server having a plurality of storage devices for example where the devices may be distributed in some manner e.g. across a network . In such a system the host computer system can be configured to aggregate information pertaining to the power consumption of respective storage devices and make a decision as to the power budgets of the respective storage devices that allows for device operation within the system s resources. For example if multiple storage devices are attached to a single computer upon power up the computer will experience a spike in power consumption that may exceed the capability to supply power to the system causing system failure. As provided herein the power management system can utilize the power footprint of the storage devices to make a decision to stagger when respective storage devices are powered up thereby preventing the system from overextending itself. Similarly the power manger can utilize the power footprint obtained from storage devices to enhance start up capabilities of a host system by taking into account power consumed by the entire system and associated devices. That is where multiple power consuming devices act in concert the power manager can selectively activate and or deactivate devices. Moreover such activation and or deactivation can be gradual e.g. slowly powering up and or powering down a particular device to conserve energy and or address inertial effects .

At the user s usage pattern is monitored. The usage pattern may be monitored by a host system s driver. As illustrated in the driver will communicate to respective devices to determine their power footprint and will provide the power footprints to the power manager via a communication protocol.

An energy cost to perform an operation by the attached devices is assessed at . For example as illustrated in the power footprint of the DVD ROM the flash memory drive and the hard disk drive will be received by the power manager from an information source . The power manager will utilize the power footprints to determine the energy cost of an attached device to perform an operation.

At a device in use is changed if an alternate device is more power efficient. The power manager may use the assessed energy cost to make a decision as to which device is used to perform an operation. In a scenario where the computer has a limited power supply the power manager can make a decision to move content from one device to another device with a lower power footprint. This allows a lower power device to perform operations thereby conserving the overall power consumption of the host system.

For example if a user inserts a DVD Video it may be deduce from the user s usage pattern that the user is likely to play the video next. More particularly in a DVD playback scenario the power manager can then change the DVD ROM usage by not streaming the video directly from the DVD but instead copying its content to the lower power consumption flash memory drive and stream the video from the flash memory drive instead e.g. assuming the content copy can be done in a short time with an overall lower energy budget and that the longer streaming from the flash storage consume less energy thereby allowing the user to work only off of the flash memory drive while still receiving the DVD ROM s information. This allows the power manager to shutdown both the DVD ROM and the hard disk drive so that the DVD ROM s usage is changed from a long period of activity streaming to a short period of intensive activity content copy .

The user s usage pattern monitoring may involve multiple users on a same computer. The system may use login information or other algorithms such as behavioral pattern recognition to distinguish users e.g. since respective users may have different habits . For example one user may usually start my computer then go get a coffee while email is synchronizing while a second user may usually go online to browse the day s news after starting a session.

More particularly the power manager may be configured to receive a power footprint through a driver from a hierarchy of ranked information sources . As illustrated in the driver will first try to read the power footprint from the highest ranked information source e.g. to monitor the device to determine the power footprint dynamically . If the driver is unable to read a power footprint from the highest ranked information source e.g. since the device is not an intelligent device the driver attempts to read the next highest ranked information source e.g. to access an on line database comprising the power footprint . In a similar manner the driver will go through the other ranked information sources e.g. receive the power footprint through updated operating system files until it is able to read a power footprint for the device. It will be appreciated that even if other sources fail to provide a power footprint that by determining a device s identity OEM specifications may be used to determine a power footprint for an identified device for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a flash solid state drive CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions e.g. in a human recognizable form such as programming code configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the corresponding processor executable instructions e.g. in computer readable form such as binary may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to flash storage magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport component and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such features may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

