---

title: Vehicle activity information system
abstract: The disclosed apparatus, system, and method serve to modify a driver's behavior, reduce accident costs, and generate more revenue from a company vehicle. Risky behavior that often leads to accidents, personal injury, property damage, and loss of a driver's livelihood is highlighted in the disclosed system. By focusing on a driver's unsafe actions, the disclosed system teaches a driver to correct unsafe driving behaviors. An employer or insurance company, for example, can access all data captured before, during, and after the accident or event to assist with finding fault. The disclosed vehicle activity information system is fully configurable at all times during installation of the system and during use thereof. A plurality of integrated cameras provides constant video surveillance of the interior and exterior of a vehicle, thus working simultaneously to capture a driver's actions in the vehicle information activity system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633576&OS=09633576&RS=09633576
owner: Alliance Wireless Technologies, Inc.
number: 09633576
owner_city: Katy
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131213
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 736 999 entitled Vehicle Activity Information System which was filed on Dec. 13 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate to vehicular data acquisition. The disclosed embodiments further relate to monitoring driver behavior. The disclosed embodiments also relate to real time management of fleet vehicles.

Certain driver factors such as speeding inattention fatigue and unfamiliarity with roads accounts for majority of all vehicular crashes. Driver error is ten times more likely to be the cause of truck related accidents as compared to other factors such as poor road conditions weather and mechanical malfunctions. As a means to reduce truck related accidents greater attention needs to be focused on developing systems for monitoring at risk driver behavior in motor vehicle fleets to improve driver safety. Fleet operators incur losses as a result of excess fuel and maintenance costs as well as losses due to inefficient management of individual vehicles in the fleet as well as groups of fleet vehicles such as those located in a specific geographic area.

Modern vehicles use a number of communication systems and or networks which could be utilized to collect driver and vehicular data. Each of these communication systems and or networks may have a bus structure that is open or proprietary. Each of these buses may also be specifically designed to work in a vehicle or may be available as a general communication protocol. For example the high speed CAN bus carries information that is vital for vehicle operation or safety and is delivered to various parts of the vehicle or system in substantially real time.

Therefore a need exists for an improved driver monitoring system that collects vehicular and driver data to improve driving behaviors.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the embodiments disclosed and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

It is therefore one aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for improved vehicular data acquisition.

It is a further aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for real time management of fleet vehicles.

The above and other aspects can be achieved as is now described. The disclosed apparatus system and method serve to modify a driver s behavior reduce accident costs and generate more revenue from a company vehicle. Risky behavior that often leads to accidents personal injury property damage and loss of a driver s livelihood is highlighted in the disclosed system. By focusing on a driver s unsafe actions the disclosed system teaches a driver to correct unsafe driving behaviors. An employer or insurance company for example can access all data captured before during and after the accident or event to assist with finding fault. The disclosed vehicle activity information system is fully configurable at all times during installation of the system and during use thereof. A plurality of integrated cameras provides constant video surveillance of the interior and exterior of a vehicle thus working simultaneously to capture a driver s actions in the vehicle information activity system.

A vehicle activity information system is disclosed. In an embodiment the system includes a processor a data bus coupled to the processor and a non transitory computer usable tangible storage device storing computer program code the compute program code comprising program instructions executable by the processor. The computer program instructions comprise of instructions to collect driver and vehicular information analyze the collected vehicular and driver information and configure parameters for displaying the collected driver and vehicular parameters to improve driving behavior. In one embodiment the vehicle and driver information and the parameters comprise at least one of event details observations driver detail sharing download video unsafe driving stopping speeding driver behavior collisions equipment scoring map location coaching session revise scoring save coaching no action and fuel monitoring.

In another embodiment the vehicle activity information system comprises program instructions to review and score the collected and analyzed vehicular and driver information wherein the collected and analyzed vehicular and driver information is reviewed by a supervisor of a driver and program instructions to educate a driver based on improved driving behavior based on the collected and analyzed vehicular and driver information. In yet another embodiment the vehicle activity information system comprises program instructions to automatically trigger collection of the vehicular and driver information wherein a trigger comprises at least one of the vehicle running a red light tailgating another vehicle or being tailgated by another vehicle speeding as determined by a current speed limit based on a certain location as gathered by the system g force manual operation and the vehicle speeding at a predetermined rate. In an embodiment the vehicle activity information system comprises program instructions to collect vehicular and driver data from a smartphone tablet or a plurality of integrated cameras wherein the plurality of integrated cameras provide continuous video surveillance of an interior and an exterior of a vehicle wherein the program instructions further provide video clips of varying lengths varying number video channels and variable bit rate to optimize storage of the video surveillance.

In one embodiment the vehicle activity information system comprises program instructions to provide off board storage post analytics report generation and a user interface associated with customer retrieval of the collected and analyzed vehicular and driver information create a report based on tracked vehicular and driver information parameters wherein the report includes at least one of driving trends accident hot spots risky driving behavior of the driver vehicle route and site performance and remotely access the collected vehicular and driver information and the parameters. In other embodiments the vehicle activity information system comprises program instructions to automatically and wirelessly upload collected vehicular and driver information to the processor and create a geofence for a fleet group wherein the geofence comprises at least one person or entity for email notification of an event.

A vehicle activity information method is also disclosed. The method comprises collecting driver and vehicular information analyzing the collected vehicular and driver information and configuring parameters for displaying the collected driver and vehicular parameters to improve driving behavior. In one embodiment the vehicle and driver information and the parameters comprise at least one of event details observations driver detail sharing download video unsafe driving stopping speeding driver behavior collisions equipment scoring map location coaching session revise scoring save coaching no action and fuel monitoring. In another embodiment the method comprises reviewing and scoring the collected and analyzed vehicular and driver information wherein the collected and analyzed vehicular and driver information is reviewed by a supervisor of a driver and educating a driver based on improved driving behavior based on the collected and analyzed vehicular and driver information. In another embodiment the method comprises automatically triggering collection of the vehicular and driver information wherein a trigger comprises at least one of the vehicle running a red light tailgating another vehicle or being tailgated by another vehicle speeding as determined by a current speed limit based on a certain location as gathered by the system g force manual operation and the vehicle speeding at a predetermined rate.

In an embodiment the vehicle activity information method further comprises collecting vehicular and driver data from a smartphone tablet or a plurality of integrated cameras wherein the plurality of integrated cameras provide continuous video surveillance of an interior and an exterior of a vehicle wherein the program instructions further provide video clips of varying lengths varying number video channels and variable bit rate to optimize storage of the video surveillance. In another embodiment the method discloses providing off board storage post analytics report generation and a user interface associated with customer retrieval of the collected and analyzed vehicular and driver information creating a report based on tracked vehicular and driver information parameters wherein the report includes at least one of driving trends accident hot spots risky driving behavior of the driver vehicle route and site performance and remotely accessing the collected vehicular and driver information and the parameters. In yet another embodiment the method comprises automatically and wirelessly uploading collected vehicular and driver information to the processor and creating a geofence for a fleet group wherein the geofence comprises at least one person or entity for email notification of an event.

A vehicle activity information apparatus is disclosed. The apparatus comprises an enclosure a cable extending from the enclosure and a data collecting device integrated within the enclosure. In an embodiment the data collecting device comprises at least one of a camera a plurality of cameras a forward view camera a cabin view camera module and a pan adjustable camera. In another embodiment the apparatus comprises an antennae extending from the enclosure a speaker a microphone an event button a status light emitting diode and an infrared light emitting diode. In one embodiment the cable extends from the enclosure via a removable connector wherein the cable comprises connections on a distal end of the cable wherein the connections comprise CAN J1939 ODB2 and power RS 232 expansion discretes and external unit connections wherein the external unit connections comprise at least one external camera unit with integrated audio video and power. In other embodiments the apparatus comprises an internal GPS unit local storage access and a USB port integrated within the enclosure. In yet another embodiment the apparatus comprises a wireless data collection and transmission device integrated within the enclosure for transmitting collected vehicular and river data.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these non limiting examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate at least one embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

The embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which illustrative embodiments of the invention are shown. The embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a n and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art one or more of the disclosed embodiments can be embodied as a method system or computer program usable medium or computer program product. Accordingly the disclosed embodiments can in some instances that take the form of an entire hardware embodiment an entire software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects all generally referred to herein as a module . Furthermore the disclosed embodiments may take the form of a non transitory computer usable or readable medium computer program product a computer readable tangible storage device storing computer program code said computer program code comprising program instructions executable by said processor on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks USB Flash Drives DVDs CD ROMs optical storage devices magnetic storage devices etc.

The computer program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to a user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN wireless data network e.g. WiFi Wimax 802.xx and cellular network or the connection may be made to an external computer via most third party supported networks for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the block or blocks.

As depicted in a memory a mass storage e.g. hard disk a processor CPU a Read Only Memory ROM and a Random Access Memory RAM are generally connected to a system bus of data processing apparatus . Memory can be implemented as a ROM RAM a combination thereof or simply a general memory unit Module includes software module in the form of routines and or subroutines for carrying out features of the present invention and can be additionally stored within memory and then retrieved and processed via processor to perform a particular task. A user input device such as a keyboard mouse or another pointing device can be connected to PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect bus .

Data process apparatus can thus include CPU ROM and RAM which are also coupled to a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect local bus of data processing apparatus through PCI Host Bridge . The PCI Host Bridge can provide a low latency path through which processor may directly access PCI devices mapped anywhere within bus memory and or input output I O address spaces. PCI Host Bridge can also provide a high bandwidth path for allowing PCI devices to directly access RAM .

A communications adapter attaches to an eSata Sata USB SD Card interface . An expansion bus bridge can also be attached to PCI local bus . The communications adapter can be utilized for connecting data processing apparatus to a network . SCSI can be utilized to control high speed SCSI disk drive . An expansion bus bridge could be utilized for coupling an additional bus as needed. Note that PCI local bus can further be connected to a monitor which functions as a display e.g. a video monitor for displaying data and information for a user and also for interactively displaying a graphical user interface GUI . A user actuates the appropriate keys on the GUI to select data file options. Note that the term GUI generally refers to a type of environment that represents programs files options and so forth by means of graphically displayed icons menus and dialog boxes on a computer monitor screen.

The embodiments described herein can be implemented in the context of a host operating system and one or more modules. Such modules may constitute hardware modules such as for example electronic components of a computer system. Such modules may also constitute software modules. In the computer programming arts a software module can be typically implemented as a collection of routines and data structures that performs particular tasks or implements a particular abstract data type.

Software modules generally can include instruction media storable within a memory location of an image processing apparatus and are typically composed of two parts. First a software module may list the constants data types variable routines and the like that can be accessed by other modules or routines. Second a software module can be configured as an implementation which can be private i.e. accessible perhaps only to the module and that contains the source code that actually implements the routines or subroutines upon which the module is based. The term module as utilized herein can therefore generally refer to software modules or implementations thereof. Such modules can be utilized separately or together to form a program product that can be implemented through signal bearing media including transmission media and or recordable media. An example of such a module that can embody features of the present invention is a vehicular activity information module as depicted in .

The interface also serves to collect and analyze vehicle activity information whereupon the user may supply additional inputs or terminate the session. In an embodiment operating system and interface can be implemented in the context of a Windows system. It can be appreciated of course that other types of systems are possible. For example rather than a traditional Windows system other operation systems such as for example Linux may also be employed with respect to operating system and interface . The software application can include a vehicle activity information module. The software application can also be configured to communicate with the interface and various components and other modules and features as described herein.

Note that the term module as utilized herein may refer to a collection of routines and data structures that perform a particular task or implements a particular abstract data type. Modules may be composed of two parts an interface which lists the constants data types variable and routines that can be accessed by other modules or routines and an implementation which is typically private accessible only to that module and which includes source code that actually implements the routines in the module. The term module may also simply refer to an application such as a computer program design to assist in the performance of a specific task such as word processing accounting inventory management music program scheduling etc.

Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the disclosed method and system may be practiced with other computer system configurations such as for example hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

In the second path the stored and analyzed driver information from block could be further analyzed to identify areas of driver behavior as illustrated in block . The areas of driver behavior can then be stored in a database within the system as illustrated in block . A sampling can be taken of the additionally analyzed information as illustrated in block to gather information about a particular driver or vehicle or learn about trouble spots that need further attention from a supervisor. As illustrated in block a score can be applied to the identified areas of driver behavior to further assist with coaching to improve driver behavior. A driver trend report can thereafter be created as illustrated in block .

The system performs real time video analysis to monitor drivers and vehicles behavior. Vehicle activity information system monitors speed through its GPS the J1939 interface for diesel engines and the OBD2 interface for gas engines a set of four users configurable external trigger as well as. Any of these events can be configured to output a log of the data create a jpeg picture and or capture a video. Each of the video camera and associated microphone can be either enabled or disabled depending on specific needs to maximize on board storage. Certain activities of the driver activities of the vehicle and various road conditions trigger automatic operation of unit and system. Such triggers can include for example vehicle running a red light tailgating another vehicle or being tailgated by another vehicle speeding as determined by a current speed limit based on a certain location as gathered by system g force manual operation and the vehicle speeding at predetermined rate.

The system processor interacts with external camera units microphones through audio video and a power source . The audio video power source interacts with a multi channel audio video decoder through the system processor . The decoder interprets data from internal cameras both the forward view camera and the cabin camera . Data collected from a cab microphone speaker and local storage e.g. SD card drives is processed via system processor . The system is provided with power through system power via a CAN J1939 ODB2 interface and a can transceiver that interacts with system processor .

The antenna interacts with system processor via an internal WiFi wireless Module and 3G module for wireless data transmission and receipt. Also interacting with system processor are local port system expansion GPS module SDRAM Flash a XYZ accelerator real time clock temperature sensor and digital compass .

The GUI includes various selectable options for viewing. Options for viewing include Event details Observations Driver Detail Sharing and Download Video etc. Categories of driving events for a specific vehicle can be filtered according to Unsafe Driving Stopping Speeding Driver Behavior Collision Equipment etc. Each category of driving events and has expandable filters included under each tab as illustrated in . Users have the option to change views of vehicle and driver data within the GUI. Possible view selections include Scoring Map Location Coaching Session Go Back Revise Scoring Save Coaching and No Action etc. It is understood that various GUI views can be incorporated into the vehicle activity information system.

SECURE REMOTE CONFIGURATION Vehicle activity information system uniquely runs SSH client and daemon to allow the user to remote securely log into the device remotely to change the configuration or download video and or audio clips. It can be remotely configured to change configuration parameter specific event trigger on the fly and download media files or log files. Using the SSH client to automatically log on the server clips that have been tagged with events are transferred. The disclosed apparatus is a remotely manageable device that can be remotely configured to change configuration parameter specific event trigger on the fly and download video.

WiFi AND OR WIRELESS CAMERA MONITORING When the system is installed the system is capable of sending video over WiFi and or wireless to position the camera with a simple laptop and no external monitors are need.

SECURE REMOTE SOFTWARE UPDATE AND DIAGNOSTICS When the units in networks communication range it can be log onto through IP networks to run diagnostics.

ENCLOSURE DESIGN The disclosed apparatus features a ruggedized design for industrial deployment. It is designed to have water dust and shock resistant common to industrial environment.

REDUNDANT SOFTWARE The system includes dual redundant program copy that can survive power failures in middle of a software updates. The software also self monitors and reports when the system is not functioning properly. Memory fault protection is included thus rendering it resilient to software fault and failures. Should the disclosed system become instable as a whole system triggers the watchdog that will restart the system in a known state.

DATA USAGE The disclosed embodiments provide for video clips of varying lengths varying number video channels and variable bit rate to optimize the storage flash card hard drive and or data plan usage and minimize cost.

UNIQUE VIDEO AND AUDIO ENCODING TECHNOLOGY While there are few system that use H264 base profile to record video onboard of a vehicles vehicle activity information system embodiments uniquely encodes video with H264 with Main Profile High Profile and it can also uniquely leverage the use of B frames for extra compression. This unique characteristic gives up to 30 extra compression at the same bitrate or up to 30 better quality at the same bitrate. It uniquely encodes audio using an AAC codec to give better audio quality at same bitrate or better compression at the same quality. Video and audio extra clarity translate directly into an increase of positive identification of vehicles licenses plates driver voices for legal or court purposes. These audio and video codec are not used in other system because they are not able to fit in power and size footprint requirement of this application. Vehicle activity information system is the first system to achieve this level performance feature set and encoding density in this footprint.

TABLET SMARTPHONE INTEGRATION Vehicle activity information system provides a framework to integrate and communicate display and manage with modern smartphone and tablet application such as Android Apps and Apple IOS apps. The communication can be through Internet Protocol IP or USB. The secure web server serves all vehicle computer telemetry data over udp and or top and video over RTP and or Apple Live streaming for seamless integration with Android and Apple IOS devices as direct client. These features are unique and have never been part of a vehicle s computer.

REMOTE NETWORK MANAGEMENT Each of the vehicle activity information system apparatuses functions as a Network Element and can be in manage or un manage state. It is a remotely manageable device that can be remotely configured to change configuration parameter specific event trigger on the fly and download video. It acts as a network element and as notification system. The network manager displays the Network Element on a map for tracking purpose.

EMERGENCY and TWO WAY COMMUNICATION In case of an accident where the driver and or vehicle are incapacitated the system will broadcast its location using the GPS and video previously recorded and live from the crash scene. This information can be forward directly to local authority or 9 1 1 to get help there as quickly as possible. Also NMS Network Management System can also forward crash site information to all other fleet vehicles close in range to provide direct help and set a route on their onboard computer or using the onboard system speaker to read direction to driver directly to get there in minimum amount of time. The manager or the driver can use the same system to dispatch a voice call.

REAL TIME VEHICLE MONITORING AND GEOFENCING MODULE Driver behavior software and geofencing are integrated together in the disclosed embodiments. This unique NMS is an object oriented integrated system that allows the fleet manager to draw geofence object on the map. The fleet manager creates fleet groups and adds each of the network elements NE . The fleet manager further creates objects for each person or entity that need to get notified through emails. These fleet groups can be associated to the geofence object and possible events with a set of rules control by a priority. Each rule can be exclusive or non exclusive. It also has basic logical operation such as and or xor xand. These rules can get triggered by the geofence or by the vehicle activity information system. For example in the rental car industry a set of rules can be created. If Avis Rental car is in Houston GeoFence and speeding email HoustonAvisManager with a report including driver name license number location picture and video files. If truck is on delivery route and has been stopped for 2 hours email manager. If truck has an accident within west coast geofence a high priority email is sent to west coast manager with location and a message to call him on cell phone.

FUEL MONITORING MODULE Vehicle activity information systems embodiments unique fuel monitoring module is independent of fuel technology. It works with CNG LNG and diesel fuels. The system continuously monitors fuel usage through J1939 interface and OBD2 interface it will read MPG when it s available. It can infer data when MPG is not available through throttle position break usage acceleration and tire pressure but it needs to be calibrated to produce non relative numbers to properly estimate fuel cost. It generates report by brand and model of vehicle to compare relative efficiency. It can establish a fuel consumption baseline and compare different driver vehicle pairs it will propose optimum driver vehicle combination based on the data that has been accumulated over time. It will also rank driver vehicle and driver vehicle pair based on measured routes. The vehicle with the lowest performance is noted in the system.

Current computer and video systems do not perform continuous on board recording and extended storage e.g. weeks of multi channel audio video and related vehicle environmental data while simultaneously analyzing the data to determine which subset s should be wirelessly transmitted. This approach allows for a significant reduction in the amount of transmitted data and associated cost while insuring other potentially event pertinent data is not lost and can be retrieved later if further clarification is required. Current systems do not access and integrate additional vehicle information available on the CAN J1939 ODB2 interface to perform further vehicle status and event processing. Optimal partitioning of on board vs. off board analytical processing load is also not performed by existing systems. The present invention utilizes multiple cameras and other sensing elements to detect events such as accidents. In providing information as to the circumstance surrounding the event the system acts as an aide in determining responsibility of the event.

Additionally the system uses a range of data sources to identify areas of driver behavior that need correction and assist in driver behavior modification. A statistical indication of vehicle performance is also obtained to allow for early identification of problem areas that could result in extended down time or above average operating costs. This combination of features and abilities ultimately results in saving users time and money in operation of their vehicle fleets. Another object of the present invention is integration with other vehicle systems via a standard bus interface to obtain further diagnostics event and processing data. Another object of the present invention is the capability of in field software updates to maintain optimal system performance with limited effort. Another object of the present invention is the inclusion of an additional processing element specifically targeted and effective at execution of advanced algorithms. Another object of the invention is the ability to provide two way communications with the vehicle occupants. Another object of the invention is the ability to perform local e.g. Wi Fi and longer range e.g. cellular communication to address different market segments.

The events are stored on the server categorically and by criticality to allow for efficient review based on the amount of administrator lime available. Instant notification of the occurrence of highly critical events may be routed to pre selected company individuals along with a preselected set of event data and or event description. The system records audio as well as video. The system has the ability to determine and improve driver efficiency based on time in route time at station the amount of time the vehicle is not active during the day and operational efficiency related to driver behavior patterns such as undue acceleration. Individual performance can be rated against other drivers in the fleet.

The sampling and analysis is statistical based to avoid false detection. In this area the reports are driver trends not a list of events the administrator has to analyze to get a trend. The system also has the ability to analyze the quality of the audio video inputs and other general system diagnostics and notification of the administrator as to the nature of the problem. CAN J1939 ODB2 interface uses its data to help determine the vehicle performance and as additional event data. For example the driver s foot was still on the gas when the crash occurred you can see on the video the car was swerving into the lane well before the driver hit the brake etc. The reliability of the vehicle location determination is improved by using the last known good GPS coordinates or using closest cellular base station GPS coordinates speed information from the CAN J1939 ODB2 and the built in magnetometer compass . Useful in rural urban or cloudy environments where GPS satellite LOS is blocked by buildings trees or other object.

In addition to event data continuous storage of relevant data for post event retrieval in cases where the pre selected trigger event dataset was not adequate 10 fully determine the event circumstances. Ease of system scalability of audio and video inputs from 1 to 16 without a major system redesign. Backup method for location determination based on last known valid GPS location truck speed via the CAN J1939 ODB2 interface and direction based on a built in electronic compass for use when the GPS signal is lost in urban environments. Integration with the USB port allows for alignment for installation and local download of event data from the local storage e.g. SD card without having to remove the local storage. Pan adjustable unit cameras to allow for a wider range of windshield mounting unit placement. Dedicated DSP for advanced algorithm processing that is not involved with standard DVR functions communications and low level diagnostics. CAN J1939 ODB2 interface to obtain vehicular data not easily gained by other means for use in determining event circumstances driver behavior driver performance and other functions.

The disclosed system detects when a vehicle has run a stop sign or stoplight. Detection of video degradation due to tampering or environmental factors. The ability to detect when the video is dead is built in. An algorithmic approach can be implemented that detects when something is smeared on the lens such as mud grease etc. The video based vehicle proximity detection assesses whether the driver is following too close for the given speed the driver is travelling into an occupied lane whether the driver is looking where he is going most of the time whether a driver s eyes are closed or open and whether a driver s head is tilting down. The onboard system can be used to detect when a face changed then send the image back to the server where further face detection can be performed. This split approach keeps from having the entire face database on the truck unit of continuously storing pictures of the driver s face. This makes sure whoever is driving the truck is the one that should be driving. Lane departure erratic driving driving to close to the edge of the lane or road are also detected via the disclosed embodiments.

The intelligent threshold and complex event detection feature helps detection of low speed collisions with stationary objects. Some events are a combination of inputs that cannot be entered into a simple ax by Th formula. The system can use adaptive boosting methods adaBoost to detect these more complicated situations which could otherwise go undetected.

Additional system features enclosure can either comprise a single enclosure or dual enclosure more audio video streams video resolution will be changed to D1 on board GPS module and magnetometer small form factor system will spilt into two devices window unit under dash unit separate data and program memories CAN J1939 ODB2 interface expansion feature through RS232 and other digital inputs and outputs. Hardware requirements DM8147 Soc from Texas Instruments as main processing unit of vehicle activity information system 3.0 Total 512 MB 1 GB DDR3 SDRAM 512 MB NAND flash for program storage six External A V stream support video decoder to convert analog video signals to digital video data TVP5158 two on board NTSC camera modules local CVBS video display output video output selection switch Audio microphone and speaker will be provided to have bidirectional audio communication Event Button Button to activate any event by driver or any other user LED Three LED for indication IR LED To support night vision inside truck cabin External Modules UART based GPS module USB based WiFi wireless and Digital Compass Data storage local storage support USB drive eSata Sata drive Silicon ID chip RS232 port CAN transceiver to support CAN J1939 ODB2 12 VDC shall be available on CAN J1939 ODB2 connector Battery backup is not required Temperature range 0 C. to 55 C.

Additional software requirements Read speed throttle position and fuel consumption from truck s computer using CAN J1939 ODB2 J1939 watchdog driver to reboot the system in case of crash support for DCAN Driver in RDK connect the available GPS module to serial port Module to read latitude and longitude and measure GPS Strength read Temperature Sensor EEPROM and Magnometer using 12C support for SSH and SCP upgrade kernel and file system from remote server BSP shall be in NAND with UBIFS file format Support triggers from below points and support logging based on triggers Accelerometer Speed From DCAN Bus 4 GPIOs Note Logging mechanism is described in Phase 1 software SOW.pdf On trigger capture MP4 video and take JPEG snapshot If battery is running out load trigger files to the server is Wi Fi connectivity is available Use GIT for version control Develop a command line based Video Capture application which does the following Capture 8 audio and video D1 channels from TVP5158 Encode video and audio data in H264 HP and AAC respectively. Encoder shall support variable bit rate fps and GOP size Multiplex the data using FFMPEG and store it in DDR in MP4 format At every 2 3600 sec store the MP4 file in SD card Video frame rate 1 29.97 fps Variable GOP as per support in RDK Video Encode bit rate 100 Kbit sec to 2 Mbits sec Audio bit rate 4 kb sec to 128 kb sec MP4 file duration 2 3600 sec Remote server IP How many channels to be recorded GPS location of the remote servers Pass the configurations as command line parameter to script executable If local storage e.g. SD card is full overwrite oldest day hour directory and delete it.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Furthermore various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

