---

title: Microwave connector with filtering properties
abstract: A microwave connector is provided. The microwave connector includes an outer conductor, an inner conductor disposed within the outer conductor and dielectric materials interposed between the outer conductor and the inner conductor, the dielectric materials including a non-dissipative dielectric material and a dissipative dielectric material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09270071&OS=09270071&RS=09270071
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09270071
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W911NF 10 1 0324 awarded by Army Research Office ARO . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a connector and more specifically to a microwave connector for efficient thermalization and filtering of microwave lines at millikelvin temperatures.

The use of high frequency coaxial lines at cryogenic temperatures i.e. temperatures below 1 K presents a number of experimental difficulties. These difficulties are mainly related to the proper filtering of unwanted frequencies adequate impedance matching of circuit components and optimal thermalization of the lines.

Experiments in the GHz frequency regime normally impose stringent conditions on the bandwidth within which the experiments are performed. Out of band spurious radiation tends to be unacceptable and proper filtering is therefore a must. Likewise to avoid reflections of the experimental signal which can result in signal loss standing waves and added noise impedance matching of all the connectors and components in the circuit is important.

For typical cryogenic setups thermal conduction from room temperature down to the coldest stage of the refrigerator must be minimized and thus most popular choices of coaxial lines for high frequency measurements at low temperatures involve the use of good thermal isolators like superconductors. At the same time proper thermal anchoring of the lines at each stage of the refrigerator is a must. In coaxial lines for example whereas the outer conductor presents no problems for heat sinking the efficient thermalization of the inner conductor constitutes a significant challenge as the dielectric separating outer and inner conductors is typically an excellent thermal insulator. Different solutions exist to solve this problem like 4 studs cold attenuators or striplines encased in epoxy amongst others. These approaches however may present added difficulties in some experiments. A 4 stud for example has a very low bandwidth whereas the effectiveness of cryogenic attenuators at millikelvin temperatures for inner conductor thermalization is somewhat unclear. Epoxy stripline filters tend to be bulky in order to avoid the dissipative side walls of the encasing to alter the field lines.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a microwave connector is provided and includes an outer conductor an inner conductor disposed within the outer conductor and dielectric materials interposed between the outer conductor and the inner conductor. The dielectric materials include a non dissipative dielectric material and a dissipative dielectric material.

According to another embodiment of the invention a connector is provided and includes an outer conductor an inner conductor having first second and third portions the first and second portions having similar dimensions and the third portion being interposed between the first and second portions and having a different dimension a low dissipative dielectric material disposed to surround the second portion of the inner conductor and a dissipative dielectric material disposed to surround the third portion of the inner conductor.

According to another embodiment of the invention a connector is provided and includes an annular outer conductor an inner conductor disposed within the annular conductor and having first second and third portions the first and second portions having similar diameters and the third portion being interposed between the first and second portions and having a different diameter a non dissipative dielectric material disposed to surround the second portion of the inner conductor and a dissipative dielectric material disposed to surround the third portion of the inner conductor.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method of assembling a connector having outer and inner conductor conductors is provided. The method includes modifying a diameter of a portion of the inner conductor pressing a low dissipative dielectric material between the outer and inner conductors to expose the portion of the inner conductor and applying a dissipative dielectric material to the exposed portion of the inner conductor.

According to yet another embodiment of the invention a method of assembling a connector having an annular outer conductor and an inner conductor disposed within the outer conductor is provided. The method includes modifying a diameter of a portion of the inner conductor pressing a low dissipative dielectric material between the outer and inner conductors such that the portion of the inner conductor is exposed applying a dissipative dielectric material to the exposed portion of the inner conductor and curing the dissipative dielectric material.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with the advantages and the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

A microwave connector is provided for efficient thermalization and filtering of microwave lines at millikelvin temperatures. The connector is designed to operate at frequencies in the 1 20 GHz range and has a cutoff frequency that can be tuned during fabrication as will be described below in further detail. The design allows for impedance tuning to impedance match other circuitry components and offers a high degree of miniaturization and modularity.

With reference to a microwave connector hereinafter referred to as a connector is provided. The connector includes an outer conductor an inner conductor a low dissipative dielectric material and a dissipative dielectric material .

The outer conductor is similar in shape and size to the outer conductor of a standard SubMiniature version A SMA connector and may be formed of brass copper stainless steel or other similar materials. The outer conductor is provided with a lead portion and a rear portion . The lead portion is an annular element having a first outer diameter OD1 and threading formed on an interior surface thereof. The threading is provided for connection of the connector with a cable connector . The rear portion is an annular element having a second outer diameter OD2 which is larger than the first outer diameter OD1 and a relatively smooth interior surface . The respective interior surfaces and of the lead portion and the rear portion define an annular interior .

The inner conductor is disposed in the annular interior of the outer conductor and has a first portion a second portion and a third portion . The first and second portions and have similar dimensions although this is not required. In particular the first and second portions and have similar diameters D12. The third portion is axially interposed between the first and second portions and and has a dimension which is different from the corresponding dimensions of the first and second portions and . In particular the third portion has a diameter D3 which is different from the diameters D12 i.e. diameter D3 may be less than diameters D12 as shown in or more than diameters D12 . From a rear side of the rear portion of the outer conductor the second portion extends axially forwardly nearly as far as the rear portion of the outer conductor . The third portion extends axially forwardly from the lead end of the second portion to a midway point of the lead portion of the outer conductor . From the lead end of the third portion the first portion extends axially forwardly nearly as far as the lead side of the lead portion of the outer conductor .

With the construction described above the threading formed on the interior surface surrounds the first portion and about half of the third portion . Similarly the relatively smooth interior surface surrounds the second portion and about half of the third portion . This is not required however and it is to be understood that the axial length of the third portion is defined as being a length of the inner conductor that is in contact with the dissipative dielectric material . The axial length of the third portion as defined herein determines a total dissipation. The diameter of the third portion which is in contact with the dissipative dielectric material may be modified to maintain a constant impedance as well as other characteristic properties.

As shown in the rear end of the second portion of the inner conductor and the rear side of the rear portion of the outer conductor are respectively connectable with corresponding features of cable which is attachable to the connector . A lead end of the first portion has a pin head shape and tapers toward a sharp lead point. The lead end of the first portion of the inner conductor and the lead side of the lead portion of the outer conductor are respectively connectable with corresponding features of the cable connector .

The low dissipative dielectric material is disposed to surround the second portion of the inner conductor and thus occupies the annular space between the outer surface of the second portion of the inner conductor and the relatively smooth interior surface of the rear portion of the outer conductor . In accordance with embodiments the low dissipative dielectric material may be a non dissipative dielectric material or more particularly Polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE . The dissipative dielectric material is disposed to surround the third portion of the inner conductor and is axially adjacent to the low dissipative dielectric material . The dissipative dielectric material inhabits a substantial entirety of a space between the outer conductor and the inner conductor with substantially no gaps defined therein.

In accordance with embodiments the dissipative dielectric material may be formed of Eccosorb or Eccosorb like materials which include a carrier epoxy resin with inclusions of small micron scale metallic possibly ferromagnetic particles. In accordance with additional or alternative embodiments the dissipative dielectric material may also include powder formed of at least one of quartz and silica to match the coefficient of thermal expansion CTE of the outer and inner conductors and and or ferromagnetic particles. The ferromagnetic particles may include iron to provide for high frequency dissipation.

In general a ratio of the low dissipative dielectric material to the dissipative dielectric material may be set at a level associated with a predefined attenuation cutoff frequency. Also for the dissipative dielectric material a volume of the epoxy resin and an amount of the magnetic fill determines attenuation and rolloff frequencies and thus is tunable. Moreover the diameter D3 of the third portion of the inner conductor is tunable for optimal impedance matching in the connector . This allows for minimized reflection of RF signals.

A process of assembling connector will now be described. Transmission characteristics of the connector are calculated and the inner conductor is modified for optimal transmission characteristics with the understanding that achieving such optimal transmission characteristics requires substantially constant impedance over an axial length of the connector . This impedance is determined by the relative radii of the inner and outer conductors and and by the electric and magnetic permittivity of the dissipative and non dissipative dielectric materials and . In particular the impedance Z is 

In practice the model described above may be fine tuned in testing to determine an actual optimal diameter D.

Once the two different diameters for the inner conductor have been determined and the inner conductor has been modified as shown in the non dissipative dielectric material is pressed between the outer and inner conductors and until one end of the non dissipative dielectric material reaches the rear side of the connector and the other end aligns exactly with the step change in the inner conductor diameter i.e. the border between the second portion of the inner conductor and the third portion of the inner conductor . The region over which the diameter of the inner conductor is the smallest is now exposed. The dissipative dielectric material is prepared separately and applied to the connector while still in liquid form with a syringe or a similar method. The liquid dissipative dielectric material is applied until exactly the next step in the inner conductor diameter i.e. the border between the third portion of the inner conductor and the first portion of the inner conductor . The connector is then left at a proper temperature for the liquid dissipative dielectric to cure which may be about 120 Celsius for a couple of hours or whatever schedule is recommended by the manufacturer.

With reference to a graphical depiction of performance data for the connector is provided. The data of was taken at room temperature and the connector included dissipative dielectric material and non dissipative dielectric material . As shown in the 3 dB point was at 3.5 GHz. Similar performance was observed at cryogenic temperatures with a 3 dB frequency.

With reference to a performance of the connector has been tested with superconducting qubits i.e. a quantum bit as used in superconducting quantum computing . Superconducting quantum computing is an implementation of quantum information that involves nanofabricated superconducting electrodes. A qubit is a two state quantum mechanical system such as the polarization of a single photon where the qubit allows for a superposition of both states at the same time. There are a number of possible experimental implementations of qubits. In a particular case of superconducting qubits a quantum system is fabricated out of superconducting structures and a non linear non dissipative element called the Josephson junction. A Josephson junction is a thin nm size insulating barrier between two superconductors and acts mainly as a non linear inductor which results in a unequal spacing of the energy levels of the qubit. This differentiates the qubit from a purely harmonic oscillator and allows the experimental manipulation of the corresponding two unique quantum states.

A qubit in thermodynamic equilibrium with its environment will ideally be in its ground state. When the quantum state of the qubit is manipulated to perform any operation on it the system will eventually evolve towards thermodynamic equilibrium a process called relaxation over a characteristic time T1 or relaxation time . Through the T1 relaxation process the qubit exchanges energy with the environment. Another dynamical process in a qubit concerns the quantum phase between the two states of the qubit. The ability to experimentally describe the relative phase between those states is called coherence. Coherence is a key concept in quantum information and it is at the core of the theory. A quantum system typically loses coherence by interacting with the environment in an irreversible way. This does not necessarily involve an energy exchange with the environment as T1 does. Through decoherence a quantum system evolves from a pure superposition of two quantum states to a classical mixture of those states a description of the states without any relative phase information . The characteristic timescale over which a quantum system loses coherence is called T phi. This is not however what is typically called coherence time . Coherence time or T2 is defined as 1 2T1 1 T phi 1 . This reflects the fact that the effective lifetime of a qubit depends on the rate at which the qubit losses energy via its environment T1 and on the rate at which the qubit loses phase coherence T phi .

In the relaxation top and coherence bottom times of the superconducting qubit are shown both before and after using a connector with a 1 1 epoxy teflon ratio i.e. the ratio of dissipative dielectric material to non dissipative dielectric material at the input and with 1 2 epoxy teflon ratio at the output of the device. In the relaxation top and coherence bottom times of the superconducting qubit are shown both before and after using a connector with a 1 1 epoxy teflon ratio at the input and with 1 3 epoxy teflon ratio at the output of the device.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

While the preferred embodiment to the invention had been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

