---

title: Smart connectors and associated communications links
abstract: “Smart” connectors with embedded processors, measurement circuits and control circuits are disclosed for establishing a “contactless” radio frequency (RF) electromagnetic (EM) Extremely High Frequency (EHF) communications link between two electronic devices having host systems. The connectors are capable of monitoring, controlling, and directing (managing) link operation to dynamically adapt to conditions, as well as monitoring and altering (or modifying) data passing through the connector, and selecting a protocol suitable for a communications session. The connectors are capable of identifying the type of content being transferred, providing authentication and security services, and enabling application support for the host systems based on the type of connection or the type of content. The connectors may operate independently of the host systems, and may perform at least one of sensing proximity of a nearby object; detecting a shape of a nearby object; and detecting vibrations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09474099&OS=09474099&RS=09474099
owner: KEYSSA, INC.
number: 09474099
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130817
---
This disclosure relates broadly to connecting electronic devices with one another and operating a communications link between the devices and also relates to systems incorporating said techniques.

It is often important to connect electronic devices together establishing a communications link between the electronic devices such as for transferring data between the devices or simply communicating between the two devices. Exemplary data being transferred between devices may comprise a media file such as an image file an audio file a video file DRM digital rights management protected content an OS operating system update customer specific code OEM original equipment manufacturer specific code retail specific code a firmware image for the destination device user data encryption decryption keys codes electronic funds transfer EFT data static data and the like.

In the descriptions set forth herein one of the devices participating in a communications link may be referred to as a source or sending device and the other device may be referred to as a destination or receiving device. However it should be understood that data may be transferred in either or both directions between the two devices.

Some examples of electronic devices which may benefit from the techniques disclosed herein may include cellphones or handsets or smart phones computers laptops tablets or comparable electronic device to name but a few.

Typically the communications link between two devices comprises a cabled connection or a wireless connection. A cabled connection such as USB Universal Serial Bus is typically point to point and requires mechanical connectors at each device and a cable between the devices one of which devices may be a hub connecting point to point with several other USB enabled devices . A wireless connection such as WiFi or Bluetooth operates in more of a broadcast mode where one device can communicate simultaneously with several other devices over a RF radio frequency link typically in the range of 700 MHz 5.8 GHz.

In the main hereinafter point to point connection oriented techniques for data transfer between two electronic devices will be discussed. An illustrative example of a point to point connection oriented communications link for transferring data between electronic devices is Near Field Communication NFC . NFC implements a set of standards for smartphones and similar devices to establish radio frequency RF communication with each other by touching bumping them together or bringing them into close proximity with one another.

Current mechanical connectors are passive and therefore offer no additional features and capabilities with respect to the state of the connection. Generally either the connection is working or not. The host system behind the connector may perform some initial analysis including detection and enumeration of connected devices in setting up the communications link which may be time consuming process and generally after the link is established no more testing is performed the link simply operates until it fails. After link failure a host system may be programmed to attempt to re establish the connection which can be a cumbersome process.

It is a general object of the invention to provide improved techniques for communicating between electronic devices which may include techniques for establishing initiating setting up monitoring maintaining adapting and dynamically altering the communication links and which may include improved techniques for alleviating overhead on the host system.

These and other objects may generally be achieved by eliminating mechanical connectors and cable wires using instead contactless electromagnetic rather than electrical connectors and an electromagnetic EM communications link interface . The contactless connectors may constitute a communication subsystem associated with a host system of a device and may comprise transceivers and associated transducers or antennas for converting between electrical signals for the host system and electromagnetic EM signals for the contactless communications link .

Data transfers between electronic devices may be implemented over a contactless radio frequency RF electromagnetic EM Extremely High Frequency EHF communications link interface which is handled substantially entirely by the contactless connectors of the devices involved in the data transfer. The electronic devices may be referred to hereinafter simply as devices . The contactless RF EHF communications link may be referred to hereinafter simply as contactless communications link or contactless link or contactless connection or simply connection . Communication between devices over the connection may be referred to as a communication session . 

In the main hereinafter contactless radio frequency RF electromagnetic EM communications links between devices having contactless connectors will be discussed. However it should be understood that some of the techniques disclosed herein may have applicability to some cabled connections using mechanical connectors as well as to some wireless connections using RF other than at EHF typically in a long range broadcast rather than short range closely coupled point to point communications mode.

According to the invention generally electronic devices or simply devices may comprise a host system and smart contactless connector for setting up and managing a contactless data link. As used herein a smart contactless connector associated with a device may comprise 

According to an embodiment or example of the invention a method of operating a contactless communications link with a contactless connector associated with an electronic device may be characterized by 

The contactless connector may be further capable of determining a protocol for a communication session with another contactless connector based on at least one of 

The contactless connector may further comprise a transceiver and may further be capable of performing at least one of 

The device associated with the contactless connector may be enclosed in a non conducting barrier and material may be disposed around at least a portion of the communications link to protect data being transferred from snooping.

According to an embodiment or example of the invention a contactless connector may be associated with an electronic device comprising a host system and the contactless connector may comprise means for establishing a contactless connection with another contactless connector associated with another electronic device by at least one of sending and receiving data in the form of extremely high frequency EHF signals over a contactless communications link the contactless connector comprising an electrical interface for interfacing with the host system of the device characterized by the contactless connector being capable of at least one of 

According to an embodiment or example of the invention a method of communicating between electronic devices may comprise 

at a first electronic device with a first contactless connector translating a data signal from a first electrical interface to a modulated carrier signal and transmitting the modulated carrier signal over a contactless communications link to a second electronic device with a second contactless connector capable of translating the modulated carrier to a base signal on a second electrical interface wherein the electrical interfaces are configured to communicate differential signals with their respective host systems 

At least one of the connectors may be further capable of determining a protocol for a communication session between the contactless connectors based on at least one of 

providing interrupts to the host system based on the presence of the connection or specific qualities of the connection.

According to an embodiment or example of the invention a system for transferring data between a first device and a second device over a contactless communications link controlled by communication subsystems that operate independently of a host system within each device may be characterized by 

Shielding material may cover at least one of at least a portion of a transmission path between the two electronic devices and a transceiver of at least one of the devices and the shielding material may be able to degrade an extremely high frequency EHF signal passing through the material.

According to an embodiment or example of the invention in an electronic device comprising a chip having a transceiver operating at extremely high frequency EHF at least one of the following methods may be performed 

The transfer of data between devices enabled by the smart connectors disclosed herein is very user friendly requiring little or no user interaction or direction to perform. Generally proximity of the two devices may be all that is required to initiate and perform data transfers.

Some benefits or advantages of the techniques disclosed herein may include one or more of the following 

The invention s described herein may relate to industrial and commercial industries such as electronics and communications industries using devices that communicate with other devices or devices having communication between components in the devices.

Other objects features and advantages of the invention s disclosed herein may become apparent in light of the following illustrations and descriptions thereof.

Various embodiments or examples may be described to illustrate teachings of the invention s and should be construed as illustrative rather than limiting. It should be understood that it is not intended to limit the invention s to these particular embodiments. It should be understood that some individual features of various embodiments may be combined in different ways than shown with one another. Reference herein to one embodiment an embodiment or similar formulations may mean that a particular feature structure operation or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention.

The embodiments and aspects thereof may be described and illustrated in conjunction with systems devices and methods which are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. Specific configurations and details may be set forth in order to provide an understanding of the invention s . However it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that the invention s may be practiced without some of the specific details being presented herein. Furthermore some well known steps or components may be described only generally or even omitted for the sake of illustrative clarity.

In the following descriptions some specific details may be set forth in order to provide an understanding of the invention s disclosed herein. It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that these invention s may be practiced without these specific details. Headings typically underlined may be provided as an aid to the reader and should not be construed as limiting.

The following terms may be used in the descriptions set forth herein and should be given their ordinary meanings unless otherwise explicitly stated or as may be evident from context.

The acronym EHF stands for Extremely High Frequency and refers to a portion of the electromagnetic EM spectrum in the range of 30 GHz to 300 GHz gigahertz .

The term transceiver which may be abbreviated XCVR or Tx Rx may refer to a device such as an IC integrated circuit including a transmitter Tx and a receiver Rx so that that the integrated circuit may be used to both transmit and receive information data . Generally a transceiver may be operable in a half duplex mode alternating between transmitting and receiving or in a full duplex mode transmitting and receiving simultaneously or configured as either a transmitter or a receiver simplex mode .

The term contactless as used herein refers to implementing electromagnetic EM rather than electrical wired contact based connections and transport of signals between entities such as devices . In some of the literature the term wireless is used to convey this meaning. As used herein the term contactless may refer to a carrier assisted dielectric coupling system which may have an optimal range in the zero to five centimeter range. The connection may be validated by proximity of one device to a second device. Multiple contactless transmitters and receivers may occupy a small volume of space. A contactless link established with electromagnetics EM may be point to point in contrast with a wireless link which typically broadcasts to several points.

The terms chip die integrated circuit IC semiconductor device and microelectronic device are often used interchangeably in common usage and may be used interchangeably herein. This also may include bare chips or dies packaged chips or dies and chip modules and packages. The techniques disclosed herein may be implemented with integrated circuits ICs using standard CMOS Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor processes. Some functions described as being implemented by chips may be implemented as macro functions incorporated into application specific integrated circuits ASICS and the like and may alternatively be implemented at least partially by software running on a microcontroller. With respect to chips various signals may be coupled between them and other circuit elements via physical electrically conductive connections. Such a point of connection is may be referred to as an input output input output I O terminal line pin pad port interface or similar variants and combinations.

US 20100159829 the 829 publication incorporated in its entirety by reference herein discloses tightly coupled near field communication link devices referred to therein as connector replacement chips . Tightly coupled near field transmitter receiver pairs are deployed such that the transmitter is disposed at a terminal portion of a first conduction path the receiver is disposed at a terminal portion of a second conduction path the transmitter and receiver are disposed in close proximity to each other and the first conduction path and the second conduction path are discontiguous with respect to each other. In this manner methods and apparatus are provided for transferring data through a physically discontiguous signal conduction path without the physical size and signal degradation introduced by a signal carrying mechanical connector and associated cabling.

The 829 publication shows therein a high level schematic representation of an illustrative embodiment of a near field transmitter receiver pair. The transmitter and receiver are not physically touching but are spaced in proximity to each other such that near field coupling between them is obtained. The near field transmitter receiver pair provides an ultra miniaturized high capacity communications link. An EHF carrier enables tiny antennas and very large bandwidth capacity. Additionally signal equalization and termination management may be integrated on the same chip with the near field transmitter receiver and or transceiver.

Generally embodiments of the present invention provide methods and apparatus for transferring data through a physically discontiguous signal conduction path without the physical size and signal degradation introduced by a signal carrying mechanical connector and without the associated costs and power consumption of equalization circuits. Various embodiments of the present invention provide data transfer between physically discontiguous portions of a signal conduction path by means of near field coupling apparatus which have tightly linked transmitter and receiver pairs. These transmitters and receivers are typically implemented as integrated circuits. Antennas for these may be internal or external with respect to the integrated circuits.

In some embodiments of the present invention the transmitter receiver pair includes a first chip with a transmitter and a second chip with a receiver while in other embodiments the transmitter receiver pair includes a first chip with one or more transceivers and a second chip with one or more transceivers.

In some embodiments the signal conduction path is single ended whereas in other embodiments the signal conduction path includes a differential pair.

US 20120263244 the 244 publication incorporated in its entirety by reference herein discloses integrated circuit with electromagnetic communication. A system for transmitting or receiving signals may include an integrated circuit IC a transducer operatively coupled to the IC for converting between electrical signals and electromagnetic signals and insulating material that fixes the locations of the transducer and IC in spaced relationship relative to each other.

U.S. Pat. No. 13 713 564 the 564 application incorporated in its entirety by reference herein discloses connectors providing haptic feedback. As mentioned therein it is important to provide improved signal security and integrity when communicating between any two EHF communication units. One method for enhancing or ensuring proper signal security and integrity is to verify that a second EHF communication unit is within a predetermined range before or during a communication attempt with a first EHF communication unit. To that end systems and methods for detecting the presence of the second EHF communication unit and or for ensuring another device or surface is within a certain distance may be included. Examples of such systems and methods are described in US 20120319496.

US 20120319496 the 496 publication incorporated in its entirety by reference herein discloses a system for sensing proximity using EHF signals may include a communication circuit configured to transmit via a transducer an EM signal at an EHF frequency and a proximity sensing circuit configured to sense a nearby transducer field modifying object by detecting characteristics of a signal within the communication circuit. Some exemplary proximity sensing circuits are disclosed therein and the proximity of a nearby object may be detected by a change in the effective impedance of an antenna caused by the nearby object.

US 20120295539 the 539 publication incorporated in its entirety by reference herein discloses EHF communication with electrical isolation and with dielectric transmission medium. A communication system including two transceivers is disclosed therein. A transceiver operating in a transmit mode may include an amplifier that receives a transmit baseband signal and amplifies the signal for input to a modulator which may apply the baseband signal to an EHF carrier signal produced by an EHF oscillator to produce a transmit electrical EHF signal that is communicated to an antenna for transmission. When the transceiver is functioning in a receive mode an EHF signal received by an antenna and converted to an electrical signal for input to a demodulator for producing a baseband signal. The communication system disclosed uses a modulated EHF carrier to couple signals across an air or dielectric medium. A very high data rate may be realized using this technique.

U.S. Pat. No. 13 848 735 the 735 application incorporated in its entirety by reference herein discloses CONTACTLESS DATA TRANSFER SYSTEMS AND METHODS. Data may be transferred from a communication subsystem of a first device to a communication subsystem of a second device contactlessly at high speed and without intervention by host processors of either device. Devices may be programmed or personalized at the factory or warehouse and may personalized at a warehouse or at a point of sale while in the box. Various modes of operation and use scenarios are described. Portions of the devices themselves or a transmission path between the devices may be shielded against snooping by a material which degrades an EHF signal passing therethrough.

As disclosed in the 735 application electronic devices or simply devices may comprise a host system and an I O input output or communication subsystem. The host system may comprise a host processor and primary storage. The I O subsystem may comprise a controller exchange storage and an RF radio frequency portion comprising at least one of a transmitter Tx or receiver Rx or at least one transceiver Tx Rx . The host processor may function as the communication subsystem controller. The primary and exchange storages may be different portions of one storage.

As disclosed in the 735 application data transfers between electronic devices may be implemented over a contactless radio frequency RF electromagnetic EM Extremely High Frequency EHF communications link interface which is handled substantially entirely by the communication subsystems of the devices involved in the data transfer.

As disclosed in the 735 application data to be transferred may be stored temporarily in an exchange storage of or associated with the communication subsystem of a source sending device awaiting detection by the source device of a destination receiving device. The host system of the sending device may be OFF or in a low power mode. Upon detection of a destination device a communications link may be established and the data may be transferred to an exchange storage of the communication subsystem of the destination receiving device where it may be stored temporarily . The host system of the receiving device may be OFF or in a low power mode. Data in the exchange storages of the sending and receiving devices may be firewalled to protect the host system from malicious code in the data being transferred. The communication subsystem of the receiving device may notify the host system of the receiving device and may also notify the communication subsystem of the sending device when the data transfer operation is complete. When the receiving device is turned ON data from its exchange storage may be moved or copied to its primary storage. Data may be also transferred in a similar manner from the receiving device to the sending device.

U.S. Pat. No. 13 760 089 the 089 application incorporated in its entirety by reference herein discloses CONTACTLESS REPLACEMENT FOR CABLED STANDARDS BASED INTERFACES. A contactless electromagnetic EM replacement substitute alternative for cabled electric Standards based interfaces such as but not limited to USB which effectively handles the data transfer requirements such as bandwidth speed latency associated with the Standard and which is also capable of measuring and replicating relevant physical conditions such as voltage levels on data lines so as to function compatibly and transparently with the Standard. A contactless link may be provided between devices having transceivers. A non conducting housing may enclose the devices. Some applications for the contactless EM interface are disclosed. A dielectric coupler facilitating communication between communications chips which are several meters apart is disclosed. Conductive paths may provide power and ground for bus powered devices.

As disclosed in the 735 application the process of a first device notably its communication subsystem detecting a second device notably its communication subsystems and establishing a contactless link may be referred to generally as link discovery .

As disclosed in the 735 application in point to point wireless contactless systems it is necessary to determine when to initiate a link between two devices. In traditional connector based systems the link establishment can be determined based on measuring some electrical characteristics that change when a connector is plugged in and a link between two devices may be established. In a point to point contactless system an electrical detection method may not be possible.

As disclosed in the 735 application the transceivers of the two referred to as sending and receiving devices may be enabled to detect a link partner while dissipating minimal power. Link discovery may be implemented by the sending device more particularly the transmitter Tx portion of its transceiver transmitting a beacon signal periodically for a short duration of time instead of being enabled continuously. Likewise the receiving device more particularly the receiver Rx portion of its transceiver may be enabled to listen for the beacon periodically for a short duration of time instead of being enabled continuously. A ratio of the transmit and receive durations of time can be established to ensure periodic overlap i.e. that the receiver will be activated to detect the beacon within a reasonable number of periods. If a transmitter beacon is within an appropriate range to establish a link the transmitter s beacon will be picked up by an active receiver. This periodic beaconing and listening approach allows for conservation of power and extended battery life .

Some techniques for link detection including beaconing and enumeration and switching from reduced power to full power operation are disclosed in the aforementioned U.S. 61 799 510 incorporated by reference herein. For example as disclosed therein a contactless connector chip may operate in a reduced power state low enough to allow for always on operation powering up only when a viable communications link with another contactless connector chip which may similarly be operating in a reduced power state is detected such as by beaconing or pinging. Upon detection both devices may move to full power operation exchange capabilities and pairing codes and the communications link may be enabled.

As disclosed in the 735 application one or both of the devices which are communicating with one another may be enclosed in a non conducting barrier housing enclosure or the like not shown such as of plastic or acrylic. Electromagnetic EM radiation may pass easily through the barrier but electrical current cannot pass easily through the barrier. The barrier can therefore isolate circuit board and fragile chips from ESD electrostatic discharge . The barrier may also hermetically seal the device s . The barrier may additionally provide a benefit to device s such as cell phones for example protecting them from moisture and humidity. The electromagnetic interface EM techniques disclosed herein may completely eliminate the need for any mechanical connectors other than perhaps a jack for recharging an internal battery or other openings in the device.

As disclosed in the 735 application the concept of providing a dielectric coupler to extend the range of the contactless link is described in the aforementioned U.S. 61 661 756 and U.S. Pat. No. 13 760 089.

Generally a dielectric coupler for facilitating propagation of EHF frequency signals may include an elongate strip of dielectric material medium such as plastic glass rubber or ceramic and may have a rectangular cross section and two ends. Suitable plastic materials for the dielectric medium may include but are not limited to PE polyethylene acrylic PVC polyvinylchloride ABS Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene and the like. The dielectric coupler may include dielectric portions made of plastic or other materials having a dielectric constant of at least about 2.0. Materials having higher dielectric constants may result in reduction of required dimensions due to a reduced wavelength of the signal in that material. The dielectric material of the plastic cable that may be at least partially coated in a layer having a low dielectric constant or an electrically conductive layer to facilitate propagation reduce interference or to reduce the likelihood of shorting the signal being propagated down a long axis of the coupler. The dielectric medium may function as a transmission medium such as waveguide and the EHF carrier may propagate along a long axis of the dielectric medium maintaining a single polarization direction. An outer surface of the dielectric medium may be coated or covered with a conductive material metal which may isolate the dielectric medium from external interference and optionally and may serve as a conductive path for electrical signals and or power . Stacked or layered structures may enable multiple signal paths.

As noted in U.S. Pat. No. 13 776 727 incorporated in its entirety by reference herein although the dielectric coupler may extend the range of the communication link the primary mechanism at work is communicating EHF signals contactlessly with the first device over an anisotropic physical path through a dielectric medium

The point to point contactless links described herein are inherently secure. As disclosed in the 735 application data passing between the two devices can further be secured such as against snooping using a technical approach such as but not limited to the sending source device pausing skipping transmission of a data stream at periodic intervals and allowing the receiving destination device to transmit skip fills back to the source device during the skipped periods. Further means for providing shielding of the transmissions which may be considered to be a physical approach to prevent against snooping are also described such as disposing dielectric plastic or other passive materials as a coating or layer or as a housing or enclosure around at least a portion of the data paths including the transceivers Tx Rx the contactless link and dielectric coupler if any to protect the data being transferred from being snooped so that signals passing through the security coating or housing may become muddled by the composition or structure of the layer housing making any signals received outside the enclosure unintelligible. FIG. 4A of the 735 application shows devices communicating over a dielectric coupler which may be a plastic material selected for its ability to propagate EHF signals. An enclosure comprising a coating or layer of material may be disposed on covering at least a portion of the dielectric coupler and may comprise dielectric plastic or other passive materials capable of degrading an EHF signal emanating from the dielectric coupler and passing through the material. This physical approach to protecting against snooping in addition with technical approaches such as skip fills described above encryption decryption and the like may provide enhanced security for data being transferred between two devices.

For illustrative clarity the two devices and will be described as mirror images of one another but it should be understood that the two devices and may be different than each other. For example one of the devices may be a laptop computer the other device may be a mobile phone. Some examples of electronic devices which may benefit from the techniques disclosed herein may include cell phones or handsets or smart phones computers docks docking stations laptops tablets or comparable electronic device to name but a few.

The first electronic device may comprise a host system and a communication subsystem which may be referred to as smart contactless connector or smart connector or contactless connector or simply connector . The connector associated with the electronic device may be generally capable of performing at least one of 

These functions of the connector with regard to interacting with the link the data and the host system may be described and elaborated upon and discussed in greater detail hereinbelow or elsewhere in this disclosure .

The contactless connector associated with the first device may comprise some or all of the following elements 

The operation of these various elements may be may be described and elaborated upon and discussed in greater detail hereinbelow or elsewhere in this disclosure .

The second electronic device may comprise a host system and a communication subsystem which may be referred to as smart contactless connector or smart connector or contactless connector or simply connector . The connector associated with the electronic device may be generally capable of 

These functions of the connector with regard to interacting with the link the data and the host system may be described and elaborated upon and discussed in greater detail hereinbelow or elsewhere in this disclosure .

The contactless connector associated with the second device may comprise some or all of the following elements 

The operation of these various elements may be may be described and elaborated upon and discussed in greater detail hereinbelow or elsewhere in this disclosure .

The connectors and may operate without intervention from the host processors in the host systems and respectively and may take control of the host system and respectively or portions thereof.

The connectors and may open activate applications return status power levels connection parameters data types info on devices systems that are connected content info amount of and type data being transferred including device configuration based on connection type link management quota information channel control and the like.

The dashed line rectangles shown in the figure around the connectors and may simply represent partitioning of functions separating distinguishing the connectors and from the host system and respectively. The antennae shown symbolically outside of the dashed line rectangles may be considered to be within the functional blocks of the connectors and but may be disposed either internal or external to a communications chip constituting the contactless connector.

The dashed line rectangles shown in the figure around the connectors and may also represent non conducting barrier housing enclosure or the like not shown such as of plastic or acrylic enclosing the connectors and or the entire devices and respectively as described hereinabove.

The electrical interfaces and may comprise communications port s channel s to communicate with the host systems and respectively. The host systems and may have their own processors not shown .

The processors and may be embedded microprocessors or microcontrollers or state machines may run management OS for the connection may have built in authentication encryption engines.

The processors and either alone or in combination with other elements presented herein may be referred to as means for managing the connection or communications link or means for monitoring data passing through the connectors and over the communications link or means for providing application support for the host system or variations thereof as may become evident from the several functional descriptions set forth herein. Generally all of the functions may be broadly characterized as interactions with the link with the data with the host and various elements and combinations thereof may be referred to as means for interacting with the link data host . Interacting may include monitoring the link the data or the host as well as reacting to states or conditions of the link data or host as well as modifying the link data host. For example one of more elements may constitute means for determining the quality of the connection or means for determining the type of data passing through the connector or over the link or means for altering or modifying or appending to data passing through the connector or means for initiating actions in the host system and the like. In some instances some of these interactions may be performed primarily or exclusively by elements electrical interfaces memory control circuits measurement circuits transceivers other than the processors and . The elements set forth herein may be considered to be any means for performing any of the functions set forth herein whether described explicitly or implicitly. In a broader sense the connectors are capable of performing one of more of at least one of the various functions described herein.

The memory and may be RAM random access memory NVRAM non volatile RAM or the like and may comprise registers containing configuration status permissions content permissions keys for authentication encryption and the like.

The control circuits and may comprise any suitable circuitry capable of which may be referred to as means for monitoring the state of the link and or actively appending to or changing data concurrently on the fly as it goes through the contactless connector or respectively.

The measurement circuits and may comprise any suitable circuitry capable of observing monitoring the connection state status the connection type and the data being transmitted. Sensors not shown may be included to monitor signal strength ambient environmental conditions and the like. Signal to noise ratio can be used as an indicator of signal quality.

The transceivers and may comprise any transceivers and associated transducers or antennas suitable for converting between electrical signals for the host system and electromagnetic EM signals for the contactless communications link such as have been described hereinabove. The transceivers and may be referred to as means for converting electrical signals to electromagnetic signals and variations thereof and are described in greater detail hereinbelow. One or both of the connectors or may have two or more transceivers. Having two or more transceivers may support a feedback loop latency changes full duplex operation and simultaneously establishing a second communications link such as for communicating with the host system .

An exemplary data flow may proceed as follows. Data originating from the host system or data originating at the first connector may be provided by the first connector via its transceiver onto the communications link . The data passes through or over the communications link . Data received from the communications link by the transceiver of the second connector may be provided to the host system or may remain in the second connector . Data may flow in the reverse direction from the host system via the connector or originating at the connector onto the contactless link to the connector which may pass the data to the host system . The connectors and may be contactless connectors and the communications link may be a contactless link as described hereinabove.

The communications link may be a contactless link and the first and second connectors and may be contactless connectors as described herein. Differences between the contactless connectors and disclosed herein and conventional mechanical connectors may be immediately apparent and may be described herein. The connectors may be considered to be communication subsystems of a host device. In this regard differences between the contactless connectors and disclosed herein and controllers such as Ethernet Standard controllers may not be immediately apparent in that both may handle data flow between a host system and a communications link . However a distinction between the contactless connectors or subsystems disclosed herein and exemplary Standards controllers is that the contactless connectors disclosed herein both set up the contactless communications link and transfer data from a host system directly onto the contactless communications link without the intermediary for example of mechanical electrical not RF connectors and a cable. Further distinctions may be made in the way that the contactless connectors disclosed herein are capable of operating independently and transparently from the host system without requiring host awareness or interaction.

The Transceivers The transceivers and are examples of means for communicating EHF signals contactlessly between the first device and the second device respectively and for converting between EHF signals and digital electrical signals.

The transceivers and may each be a half duplex transceiver which can asynchronously convert a baseband signal into a modulated EHF extremely high frequency carrier at 30 300 GHz or higher such as 60 GHz carrier frequency which is radiated from an internal or external antenna shown schematically only or can receive and demodulate the carrier and reproduce the original baseband signal. The EHF carrier may penetrate a wide variety of commonly used non conductive materials glass plastic etc. . Antennas associated with transceivers are discussed in detail in the 829 and 244 publications.

It should be understood that if only one way communication is required such as from the first device to the second device the transceiver could be replaced by a transmitter Tx and the transceiver could be replace by a receiver Rx .

Transmit power and receive sensitivity for the transceivers and may be controlled to minimize EMI electromagnetic interference effects and simplify FCC certification. RF energy output by connectors and may be below FCC requirements for certification or for transmitting an identification ID code which would otherwise interrupt data flow during data transfers. Reference is made to 47 CFR 15.255 Operation within the band 57 64 GHz incorporated by reference herein.

The transceivers and may be implemented as IC chips comprising a transmitter Tx a receiver Rx and related components. The transceiver chip s may be packaged in a conventional manner such as in BGA ball grid array format. The antenna may be integrated into the package or may be external to the package or may be incorporated onto the chip itself. An exemplary connector may comprise one two or more transceiver chips.

The signals transmitted by the transceivers and may be modulated in any suitable manner to convey the data being transferred from one device to the other device some non limiting examples of which are presented herein. Modulation may be OOK on off keying or other similar simple modulation techniques. Signals may be encoded and packetized and transmitted by one transceiver such as and received and unpacketized and decoded by another transceiver such as . Out of band OOB signaling or other suitable techniques may be used to convey information other than or related to the data being transferred between the two devices.

The transceivers and or individual transmitters and receivers which may be implemented as chips may be factory serialized so that the chips and their transmissions may be tagged fingerprinted which may enable a later forensic analysis to be performed for digital rights management DRM . For example protected premium content could be freely unimpeded transferred from one device to another but the transaction could be traced to the specific devices involved so that the participants in the transaction can be held accountable such as billed . Premium protected content may be modified data appended thereto and can be logged with chip ID user ID or by other means.

Data transfer between the two electronic devices and may be implemented over a contactless radio frequency RF electromagnetic EM communications link interface which is handled substantially entirely by the smart connectors communication subsystems and of the first and second devices and respectively. Signals flowing between the devices and occurs electromagnetically over a non electrical dielectric medium such as an air gap waveguide plastics polyethylene thermoplastic polymers polyvinylidene difluoride fluoropolymers ABS and other plastics including combinations of these materials The EHF signal can pass through other dielectric materials such as cardboard. The EHF signal can pass through a series of different dielectric materials and or waveguides.

Due to the high data rate enabled by the EHF contactless communication large data files such as movies audio device images operating systems and the like may be transferred in very short periods of time in contrast with existing technologies such as NFC. As an example a 1 Gigabyte data file may be transferred in as little as 2 seconds.

The electromagnetic communication may typically be over an air gap may be limited to a short range such as 0 5 cm. A dielectric medium such as a dielectric coupler may be used to extend the range of the contactless link between the devices and to several centimeters cm meters or more and reference is made to the aforementioned U.S. 61 661 756 and U.S. Pat. No. 13 848 735.

The communications link may comprise a dielectric medium selected from the group consisting of air gap waveguide plastics and combinations thereof. Alternatively the communications link may be a slot antenna in a conductive medium the slot antenna directing the contactless connectivity in a desired direction. A device at least the contactless connector may be substantially fully enclosed by a conductive medium other than at a location where it is desired to emit and receive EHF radiation from a partner device at least the contactless connector thereof which may also be similarly substantially fully enclosed by a conductive medium.

It should be understood that in this and any other embodiments of contactless links discussed herein an overall communications system may be implemented as a combination of contactless and physical links. Furthermore some of the techniques described herein may be applied to transferring data over a physical link such as a cable and connectors. Similarly some of the techniques described herein may be applied to transferring data over a wireless link such as WiFi or Bluetooth. In the main hereinafter the use of a contactless link for transferring data between the two devices will be described.

The establishment of a contactless communication link between devices and may be initiated by one or both of the devices.

The connectors and with embedded processors and embedded measurement and control circuits are capable of interacting with the link with the data being transferred over the link and with the host system of the devices in numerous ways including but not limited to 

In an exemplary first step both smart connectors and particularly their transceivers and respectively may be operating in a reduced power mode awaiting link discovery as described above. Upon discovery of the link the smart connectors may power up and start negotiating the contactless connection exchanging various parameters such as those listed in other sections of this application and information with one another as may be described elsewhere herein and setting up the communication session. In addition the connectors and can negotiate and set parameters based upon the type of connection for example device to device device to docking station device to cable the parameters being set such that link signal integrity and FCC requirements are met. A smart connector may also negotiate and set these parameters based on the geographic location the data rate of the connection application requirements whether the device is indoors or outdoors and whether the device is within an aircraft.

In an exemplary next step the communication session may commence. As discussed elsewhere the session may begin using medium power settings thereafter adjusting the power level to a more appropriate level taking into consideration factors such as conserving battery power.

In an exemplary next step measurements monitoring may be performed by one or both of the connectors and including but not limited to parameters such as transmitted received power time of flight parasitic loading baseband data content state etc. Monitoring may be performed by the measurement circuits and of the connectors and respectively. This step can be performed before the step of commencing the session.

In an exemplary next step controls adjusting may be implemented by one or both of the connectors and including but not limited to parameters such as transmitted carrier frequency and power receiver tuning and sensitivity signal path muting enumeration states power management authentication security channel coding On Off Keying Phase Shift Keying Frequency Shift Keying Amplitude Shift Keying Quadrature Amplitude Modulation and other channel coding techniques etc. Control may be implemented by the control circuits and of the connectors and respectively or by the processors and of the connectors and respectively.

In an exemplary next step application support directing link operation may be implemented by one or both of the connectors and including but not limited to detecting various characteristics of the communication session between two devices and optionally notifying the host system of the associated device such as but not limited to type of content being transferred the type of connection the type of devices or type of systems being connected whether or not data will be transferred on demand or pushed into a device which data is valid to be transferred the prevention of DRM content being transferred the prevention of other types of data being transferred tracking data that is being transferred appending info or changing altering data within a data stream tracking and logging data transactions etc. This may include the contactless connector tracking and logging characteristics of the contactless connection.

In an exemplary next step various other tasks and techniques may be performed by one or both of the smart connectors including but not limited to detecting the shape of the partner device and other functions such as may be discussed in greater detail herein.

In an exemplary next step the devices my log off from the communications session notify their respective host systems and resume low power operation awaiting discovery of a new link.

Many capabilities may be enabled by smart connectors with embedded processors such as have been described herein establishing an intelligent communications link. By monitoring and controlling the communications link as well as by providing application support several advantages may be obtained. As mentioned previously some of these techniques may be applicable to cabled connections and also to wireless connections. Generally however the techniques described herein may be most beneficially adapted to contactless EHF connections established over an air gap or a dielectric coupler

Some capabilities of or enabled by the smart connectors disclosed herein will be presented in three broad categories Managing the Link Modifying the Data and Providing Application Support . It should be understood that some of the capabilities presented in one category may involve capabilities being performed in another category or may be performed entirely in another category. Some capabilities that may not be neatly organized into these three broad categories may be discussed under the heading in the category of Other Capabilities . The organization of capabilities into these categories is meant to be illustrative not limiting.

Since the connection is contactless may be short reach 0 5 cm and the devices and may move around with respect to one another it may be advantageous for one or both of the smart connectors and to determine and monitor how much mechanical margin is present. A given connector may determine link quality and react and may notify its host and can notify the other connector. For example the condition of the connection can be monitored over time and it can readily be determined whether the connection is improving or degrading. If it is determined that the connection is improving appropriate actions such as increasing data rate or reducing power may be implemented. If it is determined that the connection is degrading a time to connection failure may be calculated estimated and appropriate actions such as storing an indications of data transfer progress or smoothly shutting down the transceivers or the host system if it was woken up for the communication session may be implemented to name but a few actions that may be taken in response to link condition and history.

Conditions such as connection state can be determined including factors such as time of flight and used to verify proper connection thereby providing security for the communication session. Vibrations can be detected such as inferred by rapid small changes in position over time. This may be useful for detecting mechanical vibrations in engines machinery or equipment and only one connector may be needed to perform this function. Objects and obstacles can be detected. One device can detect the other device and vice versa. The proximity sensing capabilities of the connectors and enables the connectors to perform many radar like functions.

The time of flight or signal strength may be used as a hash into an encryption table. The key located at the hash indicated by the time of flight may be used to encrypt or decrypt the data as it travels over the link. In this manner as the connection moves around or the signal is improved or degraded the encryption code varies creating a virtually unhackable link.

The quality state condition capability of the communications link can determined monitored tested by the smart connectors. This determination can be made at the beginning of a communications session such in conjunction with link discovery and can also be performed at any point including continuously throughout the communication session. The quality of the link may be used to modify the data rate of transactions passing through the contactless communication link. As the quality degrades or improves the data rate may change be adapted to ensure proper data integrity.

By monitoring the quality of the connection it may be determined predicted for example that connection failure is imminent in which case various actions as may be appropriate may be performed such as exiting smoothly and or notifying the host system of the imminent failure. Some mechanical connectors use varying length traces to determine when a link is being unplugged but these only provide a margin for power delivery and are not able to alert an application that the data stream will be disconnected in a defined amount of time. 

The connectors and provide useful quality of service capability such as linear connection strength telemetry antenna loading and other capabilities that are generally impossible with a conventional connector which fails catastrophically. These capabilities may be used to determine whether a link is being actively observed by a third party.

Upon discovery of a link it may be determined that the link is weak but improving. This may occur for example when one device is approaching the other. It may then be determined to wait until the quality of the link has improved to a threshold level before conducting the communications session. Meanwhile various actions can be taken by the connector or by the host system which m ay be notified by the connector to prepare for the onset of the communications link. Then the data that is being transferred may be transferred in an optimal manner as quickly as possible without tying up resources of either device for longer than necessary.

Information about the quality of the link may be passed on to the user of a device such as via the host system in which case it may be possible to allow the user to determine if or when a given data transfer should occur. The host system itself may decide whether and when to conduct the data transfer.

When a link is detected the transceivers and can be powered up from their always on reduced power state. Initially the link may be established using a high such as maximum power level then dynamically decreased to a lower power level which is sufficient to maintain the link. Alternatively the link may initially be established using a medium power level thereafter increasing or decreasing the power level and determining the condition of the link then dynamically decreased to a lower power level which is sufficient to maintain the link. Transceiver output may be dynamically controlled for example to achieve at least one of minimizing power usage maximizing data transfer rate meeting emission requirements based on connection type adjusting power output to improve quality of the connection adjusting power output to provoke a reaction from the other contactless connector and meeting emission requirements in different geographic locations

Depending on what type of transaction data transfer is desired transceiver power output may be adjusted accordingly. For example a high power level may be used to ensure maximum data transfer rate.

Performance of the connectors and may be modified to maintain link integrity by adjusting power levels and tuning other parameters. Power usage may be reduced or minimized to conserve battery life generate less heat conserve other system resources etc. Power levels may conversely be increased to achieve other objectives. In general the connectors and are capable of dynamically adapting to link conditions.

Sophisticated power management algorithms may be implemented including but not limited to metering quotas speed power scaling multi channel carrier frequency control lock and key algorithms and the like.

Modifying data passing through the connectors and to or from the link may include but is not limited to 

Circuitry inside connector may perform the watermarking including any modifying of data passing though the connector based upon at least one of 

The smart connector can identify the type of content being transferred over the communications link provide application support to the host system and can modify what is being transferred based on a characteristic of the device at the other end of the link. Subsequent actions may be invoked based on content. As disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 13 848 735 data may be transferred from a communication subsystem of a first device to a communication subsystem of a second device contactlessly at high speed and without intervention by host processors of either device.

The smart connectors disclosed herein may provide an additional level of security for data transfers including but not limited to authentication encryption prevention of certain types of content being transferred etc. Since the smart connector may be aware of the content in the data being transferred it can identify and direct applications to be invoked in the host system. The transfer of certain types of data non authorized DRM content viruses OS firmware etc. may be prevented. The smart connectors can determine what systems and devices are connected their capabilities whether they are the source of or destination for data manage the devices ascertain or modify device status ascertain or modify connection status limit the amount of data transferred etc. Data being transferred can be tracked and logged along with information on the data being transferred transcryption transactional coding of data etc. The data being transferred can be modified including tagged or encrypted.

Digital watermarking signature detection stamping and steganography obfuscation algorithms may be applied to data being transferred over the connection. Connection state e.g. span driven encryption may be employed. Telemetry data may be used to drive encryption. An extremely secure communication session can be conducted between two devices because only the two devices are privy to parameters such as signal strength conditions which may be substantially impossible for a spying or snooping device to recreate. Threat detection in the form of link qualification proper timing loading may be implemented.

During setting up the session a given device may enable different privilege levels thereby facilitating or limiting data transfers depending on what the other device is and or what privilege levels the other device has. The communication session may depend upon or otherwise be affected by the combination of the two devices engaged in the session.

Depending on the nature of the connection as ascertained by the smart connector the host system can modify parameters of or associated with the data being transferred for example by increasing or decreasing bit error protection and other characteristics of the data being transferred.

The smart connectors enable lock and key algorithms to be applied to data being transferred over the link.

Providing application support for the host system and by the connectors and respectively may include but is not limited to 

An embedded processor or control circuitry within the smart connector may detect content passing through the connector and based on appropriate settings within the connector may notify the host controller in the host system and or applications running on the host controller of specific content being transferred over the communications link and may additionally provide bookkeeping and or security services based upon requests from the host processor or application running on the host. For example upon notification from the connector the application running on the host may perform or prepare to perform tasks related to the content being transferred which may include but are not limited to 

The connector can identify itself to the host and expose certain functions through an API application programming interface or as a device or driver to the host processor or the connected device s host processor allowing the host to exercise control over some functions of the connector. When two devices are communicating one device can pass a device specific API to the other device. When the API is passed one device may be able to control or interface to the connected device through the API.

The connector may store information related to the contactless connection in registers associated with the connector. These registers may be accessible by the host processor and based on these settings applications may be initiated or closed and functions such as password access within an application may be invoked. Based on the register settings received from the contactless connector the host processor may determine how to treat react to such as store in certain memory locations data being received via the contactless connector.

A given contactless connector may collect store and provide to its associated host system information about the type of data being transferred over the communications link information about the communications link itself and or information or requirements that may be relevant to implementing an effective communication session between devices associated with the contactless connectors including tracking and logging characteristics of the contactless connection.

Many of the functions described herein may be implemented in an adapter interface for a conventional mechanical connector for a cabled communications link.

Security of the communication is inherent in short reach point to point sessions and certain technical and physical mechanisms for improving security have been discussed hereinabove. As disclosed in US 20120319496 the proximity of a nearby object may be detected such as by a change in the effective impedance of an antenna caused by the nearby object. In this regard a given contactless connector can determine an overall physical shape of a nearby object which may be the partner device and based on the determined shape certain privileges may be invoked or withheld. In a more general sense the ability of a contactless connector such as described herein to see its surrounding environment in a manner reminiscent of radar numerous other possibilities may be enabled based on the appearance of surrounding objects.

The contactless connector may detect position and movement change in position over time of a nearby object including another contactless connector such as to initiate or validate a contactless connection. This may be used for example to recognize a particular object such as by a particular movement relative to the contactless connector. The contactless connector may further include an accelerometer or gyroscope to recognize changes in its own position or how the device it is associated with is moving in three dimensions.

Contactless connectors such as disclosed herein have many inherent benefits over mechanical connectors. A given connector can support many different Standards changing the protocol as may be necessary without the problems of mechanical mismatch that is inherent in the variety of mechanical connectors supporting different Standards including the variety of connectors that may be used within a given Standard . Information exchanged between devices during enumeration or bring up may be used to choose different protocols Standards based on different needs for example transferring data using a USB protocol transferring video using a video protocol and the like thereby enabling the pair of smart connectors to modify the way that they communicate transfer data with each other. The smart connectors may determine which protocol Standard to use based on i information about the connected device type of device ii detecting the type of data being transferred between devices iii information about the link such as signal strength for example iv any other information or requirements that may be relevant to implementing an effective communication session between connected devices.

The smart connectors described herein may provide seamless transparent authentication and security autonomously without involving the host system. Since much if not all of the tasks are performed in the connector the demands on the host system can greatly be alleviated. Various levels of security can be layered in the connection itself between the two smart connectors. Scrambling and encryption can be based on the characteristics of the communications link itself based on distance other parameters etc. For example several layers of security may be implemented including but not limited to 

The smart connectors and enable link management such as sophisticated power management algorithms metering quotas speed power scaling and multi channel carrier frequency control. Different connectors may operate at different frequencies. Frequency hopping may be employed. An optimal frequency for the connection in progress may be selected.

Some advantages and benefits of the techniques disclosed herein may include but are not limited to one or more of the following including various combinations thereof 

While the invention s has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention s but rather as examples of some of the embodiments. Those skilled in the art may envision other possible variations modifications and implementations that should also be considered to be within the scope of the invention s based on the disclosure s set forth herein and as may be claimed.

