---

title: Conductive sheet and touch panel
abstract: In this conductive sheet and touch panel, a first conductive pattern has a band-shaped section extending in the y-direction; a second conductive pattern has a plurality of electrode sections that are each connected in the x-direction by a connection section; the first conductive pattern and the second conductive pattern are both configured combining a first lattice and a second lattice (having a size larger than that of the first lattice); the facing portions of each of the band-shaped section of the first conductive pattern and the connection section of the second conductive pattern are configured from a plurality of second lattices; and when seen from the upper surface, the facing portions of the band-shaped section and the connection section have a form combining a plurality of first lattices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386691&OS=09386691&RS=09386691
owner: FUJIFILM Corporation
number: 09386691
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20131112
---
This application is a Continuation of International Application No. PCT JP2012 062124 filed on May 11 2012 which was published under PCT Article 21 2 in Japanese which is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 108328 filed on May 13 2011 the contents all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a conductive sheet and a touch panel for example suitable for use in a projected capacitive touch panel.

Transparent conductive sheets containing thin metal wires have been studied as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0229028 International Publication No. WO 2006 001461 etc.

Touch panels have attracted much attention in recent years. The touch panel has currently been used mainly in small devices such as PDAs personal digital assistants and mobile phones and is expected to be used in large devices such as personal computer displays.

A conventional electrode for the touch panel is composed of ITO indium tin oxide and therefore has a high resistance. Thus when the conventional electrode is used in the large device in the above future trend the large sized touch panel has a low current transfer rate between the electrodes and thereby exhibits a low response speed a long time between finger contact and touch position detection .

A large number of lattices made of thin wires of a metal thin metal wires can be arranged to form an electrode with a lowered surface resistance. Touch panels using the electrode of the thin metal wires are known from Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 05 224818 International Publication No. WO 1995 27334 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0239650 U.S. Pat. No. 7 202 859 International Publication No. WO 1997 18508 Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 2003 099185 International Publication No. WO 2005 121940 etc.

The touch panel electrode of the thin metal wires has problems with transparency and visibility because the thin metal wires are composed of an opaque material as described in the above documents such as Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 05 224818.

In view of the above problems an object of the present invention is to provide a conductive sheet and a touch panel which can have an electrode containing a pattern of less visible thin metal wires a high transparency a high visibility and improved detection sensitivity.

 1 A conductive sheet according to a first aspect of the present invention comprises a first conductive part and a second conductive part overlapping with each other. The first conductive part contains a plurality of first conductive patterns arranged in one direction. The second conductive part contains a plurality of second conductive patterns arranged in another direction approximately perpendicular to the one arrangement direction of the first conductive patterns. The first conductive patterns each contain a strip extending in the other direction approximately perpendicular to the one direction. The second conductive patterns each contain a plurality of electrode portions which are connected with each other by a connection in the one direction. The first and second conductive patterns each contain a combination of a plurality of first lattices and a plurality of second lattices the first and second lattices are composed of thin metal wires and the second lattices are larger than the first lattices. The second lattices are used in overlapping portions in the strips of the first conductive patterns and the connections of the second conductive patterns. As viewed from above the overlaps of the strips and the connections each contain a combination of a plurality of the first lattices.

Therefore the second lattices in the strips of the first conductive patterns overlap with the second lattices in the connections of the second conductive patterns so that a plurality of the first lattices are arranged in the overlaps as viewed from above resulting in improvement of the visibility. Thus since the first and second conductive patterns each contain a combination of a plurality of the first lattices and a plurality of the second lattices the conductive sheet can have the electrodes containing the patterns of less visible thin metal wires a high transparency and a high visibility.

 3 Furthermore it is preferred that the thin metal wires have a line width of 15 m or less. In this case a touch panel using the conductive sheet having the electrodes containing the patterns of thin metal wires can exhibit a high transparency a high visibility and improved detection sensitivity.

 4 In the first aspect it is preferred that the first and second conductive parts are stacked with a substrate interposed therebetween and the substrate has a thickness of 50 to 350 m. In this case the detection sensitivity and the visibility can be improved.

 5 In the first aspect the electrode portions may each contain a plurality of the first lattices. In this case the electrode portion containing the first lattices can act to store a signal charge corresponding to a touch position of a finger or an input pen .

 6 In the first aspect an occupation area of the second conductive patterns may be larger than the occupation area of the first conductive patterns. In this case an occupation area of the second conductive patterns can be increased whereby a surface resistance of the second conductive patterns can be lowered. Consequently when the low resistance second conductive patterns are located closer to a display device noise impact of an electromagnetic wave can be reduced.

 7 In this case when the first conductive patterns have an occupation area A1 and the second conductive patterns have an occupation area A2 it is preferred that the conductive sheet satisfies the condition of 1

 10 In the first aspect it is preferred that a length of the electrode portion is 2 to 10 times larger than the width of the strip in the one direction. In this case the occupation area of the second conductive patterns can be increased whereby the surface resistance of the second conductive patterns can be lowered. Consequently when the low resistance second conductive patterns are located closer to a display device noise impact of an electromagnetic wave can be reduced to improve the detection sensitivity.

 11 In the first aspect it is preferred that the length of the electrode portion in the arrangement direction of the second conductive patterns is at least 2 times larger than the width of the strip. In this case the occupation area of the second conductive patterns can be increased to lower the surface resistance thereof.

 12 In the first aspect the first conductive patterns may contain a plurality of protrusions which extend from both sides of the strip are arranged at predetermined intervals in the other direction approximately perpendicular to the one direction do not overlap with the electrode portions in the second conductive patterns and contain a plurality of the first lattices. In this case since the protrusion contains a plurality of the first lattices the protrusion can act as an electrode to store a signal charge corresponding to a touch position of a finger or an input pen . Furthermore since the protrusions do not overlap with the electrode portions of the second conductive patterns the parasitic capacitance between the protrusions and the electrode portions can be remarkably reduced improving the detection sensitivity.

 13 In the first aspect the length of the protrusion may be smaller than the length of the electrode portion in the one direction. In this case the occupation area of the second conductive patterns can be increased to lower the surface resistance thereof.

 14 In the first aspect it is preferred that the length of the protrusion is larger than of the length between the adjacent strips and smaller than the length between the adjacent strips in the one direction. In this case the protrusion can act as an electrode to store a signal charge corresponding to a touch position of a finger or an input pen .

 15 In the first aspect it is preferred that the length of the protrusion is smaller than of the length between the adjacent strips in the one direction.

 16 In this case the ends of the protrusions extending from one strip toward another strip adjacent to the one strip and the ends of the protrusions extending from the other strip toward the one strip may be arranged facing each other. In this case the protrusion can act as an electrode to store a signal charge corresponding to a touch position of a finger or an input pen .

 17 In the first aspect it is preferred that the width of the strip is at least 3 times larger than the width of the protrusion. In this case the strip can have an excellent conductivity to transmit the signal charge stored in the protrusion at high speed so that the detection sensitivity can be improved.

 18 In the first aspect it is preferred that a specific protrusion extends from one strip toward another strip adjacent to the one strip one protrusion extends from the other strip toward the one strip and is arranged facing the specific protrusion at a first distance L1 from the specific protrusion another protrusion extends from the other strip toward the one strip and is arranged facing the specific protrusion at a second distance L2 from the specific protrusion and the protrusions satisfy the inequality of L1

 19 In this case it is preferred that the first distance is at most 2 times larger than the length of the protrusion in the arrangement direction of the second conductive patterns.

 20 Furthermore it is preferred that the second distance is at most 3 times larger than the length of the electrode portion in the arrangement direction of the second conductive patterns.

 21 In the first aspect it is preferred that the length of the protrusion is at most of the length of the electrode portion in the arrangement direction of the second conductive patterns.

 22 In the first aspect the first conductive part may contain first auxiliary patterns between the adjacent first conductive patterns and the first auxiliary patterns are not connected to the first conductive patterns. Furthermore the second conductive part may contain second auxiliary patterns between the adjacent second conductive patterns and the second auxiliary patterns are not connected to the second conductive patterns. As viewed from above the first and second auxiliary patterns may overlap with each other to form combined patterns and the combined patterns may each contain a combination of a plurality of the first lattices. In this case the boundaries between the protrusions and the electrode portions can hardly be found whereby the visibility can be improved.

 23 A touch panel according to a second aspect of the present invention comprises a conductive sheet which is used on a display panel of a display device. The conductive sheet contains a first conductive part and a second conductive part overlapping with each other. The first conductive part contains a plurality of first conductive patterns arranged in one direction. The second conductive part contains a plurality of second conductive patterns arranged in another direction approximately perpendicular to the one arrangement direction of the first conductive patterns. The first conductive patterns each contain a strip extending in the other direction approximately perpendicular to the one direction. The second conductive patterns each contain a plurality of electrode portions which are connected with each other by a connection in the one direction. The first and second conductive patterns each contain a combination of a plurality of first lattices and a plurality of second lattices the first and second lattices are composed of thin metal wires and the second lattices are larger than the first lattices. The second lattices are used in overlapping portions in the strips of the first conductive patterns and the connections of the second conductive patterns. As viewed from above the overlaps of the strips and the connections each contain a combination of a plurality of the first lattices.

As described above the conductive sheet and the touch panel of the present invention can have the electrodes containing the patterns of less visible thin metal wires a high transparency a high visibility and an improved detection sensitivity.

Several embodiments of the conductive sheet and the touch panel of the present invention will be described below with reference to . It should be noted that in this description a numeric range of A to B includes both the numeric values A and B as the lower limit and upper limit values.

A touch panel having a conductive sheet according to an embodiment of the present invention will be described below with reference to .

The touch panel has a sensor body and a control circuit such as an integrated circuit not shown . The sensor body contains a conductive sheet stack according to a first embodiment hereinafter referred to as the first conductive sheet stack A and thereon a protective layer . The first conductive sheet stack A and the protective layer can be disposed on a display panel of a display device such as a liquid crystal display. As viewed from above the sensor body has a touch position sensing region corresponding to a display screen of the display panel and a terminal wiring region a so called frame corresponding to the periphery of the display panel .

As shown in the first conductive sheet stack A is provided by stacking a first conductive sheet A and a second conductive sheet B.

The first conductive sheet A has a first conductive part A formed on one main surface of a first transparent substrate A see . As shown in the first conductive part A contains a plurality of first conductive patterns A arranged in a first direction an x direction .

The first conductive pattern A contains a strip and a plurality of protrusions . The strip extends in a second direction a y direction perpendicular to the first direction and the protrusions extend from both sides of the strip and are arranged at regular intervals in the second direction. The length La of the protrusion is larger than of the length Lb between the adjacent strips and smaller than the length Lb in the first direction the x direction . In this case the protrusion can act as an electrode to store a signal charge corresponding to a touch position of a finger or an input pen . The length Lc of the strip in the first direction the x direction the width Lc of the strip is at least 3 times as large as the length Ld of the protrusion in the second direction the y direction the width Ld of the protrusion . The length Lc is preferably 3 times or more and 10 times or less more preferably 3 times or more and 7 times or less particularly preferably 3 times or more and 5 times or less as large as the length Ld. In the example of the length Lc is about 3.5 times as large as the length Ld. In this case the strip can have an excellent conductivity to transmit the signal charge stored in the protrusion at high speed so that the detection sensitivity can be improved. The length Lb between the adjacent strips is at least 2 times preferably 3 to 10 times more preferably 4 to 6 times as large as the width Lc of the strip . In the example of the length Lb is about 5 times as large as the width Lc. In this case the length Le of an electrode portion in the first direction in a second conductive pattern B to be hereinafter described is at least 2 times as large as the width Lc of the strip . Therefore the occupation area of thin metal wires in the second conductive pattern B can be increased and the surface resistance of the second conductive pattern B can be lowered. The shape of the protrusion is not limited to the example of . A plurality of protrusions may further extend from the protrusion and the end of the protrusion may be branched to form a bifurcated geometric shape. The shape of the electrode portion in the second conductive pattern B may be selected depending on the shape of the protrusion .

The first conductive pattern A contains a combination of a plurality of first lattices and a plurality of second lattices . The first lattices and the second lattices are composed of thin metal wires and the second lattices are larger than the first lattices . The first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B such that the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B overlap with each other as hereinafter described. In this case the second lattices are used in the overlapping portions of the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B and the first lattices are used in the non overlapping portions. Thus in this example at least the protrusion contains a plurality of the first lattices and a part of the strip contains a plurality of the second lattices .

The first lattice and the second lattice have similar rhombus or square shapes and the side length of the second lattice is m times longer than the side length of the first lattice in which m is a real number larger than 1 . In the example of the side length of the second lattice is twice as large as that of the first lattice . Of course for example the side length of the second lattice may be 1.5 2.5 or 3 times longer than that of the first lattice . The side length of the first lattice is preferably 30 to 500 m more preferably 50 to 400 m particularly preferably 100 to 350 m. The first lattice and the second lattice may appropriately have an angle of 60 to 120 .

The positional relationships between the protrusions of the adjacent strips are as follows. Thus when a specific protrusion extends from one strip toward the other strip one protrusion extends from the other strip toward the one strip and is arranged facing the specific protrusion at a first distance L1 from the specific protrusion and another protrusion extends from the other strip toward the one strip and is arranged facing the specific protrusion at a second distance L2 from the specific protrusion the protrusions satisfy the inequality of L1

Specifically the first distance L1 is at most 2 times preferably at most 1.8 times more preferably at most 1.5 times as large as the width Ld of the protrusion . The second distance L2 is at least 5 times preferably 7 to 20 times more preferably 10 to 15 times as large as the width Ld of the protrusion . In the example of the first distance L1 is approximately equal to the width Ld of the protrusion and the second distance L2 is approximately 13 times larger than the width Ld of the protrusion .

The thin metal wire contains for example gold Au silver Ag or copper Cu . The lower limit of the line width of the thin metal wire may be 0.1 m or more and is preferably 1 m or more 3 m or more 4 m or more or 5 m or more. The upper limit of the line width is preferably 15 m or less 10 m or less 9 m or less or 8 m or less. When the line width is less than the lower limit the thin metal wire has an insufficient conductivity whereby the touch panel using the thin metal wire has insufficient detection sensitivity. On the other hand when the line width is more than the upper limit moire is significantly generated due to the conductive metal portion and the touch panel using the thin metal wire has a poor visibility. When the line width is within the above range the moire generated due to the conductive patterns composed of the thin metal wires is improved and the visibility is remarkably improved. It is preferred that at least the first transparent substrate A has a thickness of 50 m or more and 350 m or less. The thickness is further preferably 80 m or more and 250 m or less particularly preferably 100 m or more and 200 m or less.

As shown in in the first conductive part A for example one end of each alternate odd numbered first conductive pattern A and the other end of each even numbered first conductive pattern A are each electrically connected to a first terminal wiring pattern composed of the thin metal wire by a first wire connection

As shown in the second conductive sheet B has a second conductive part B formed on one main surface of a second transparent substrate B see . As shown in the second conductive part B contains a plurality of the second conductive patterns B arranged in the second direction the y direction .

The second conductive pattern B contains a plurality of the electrode portions which are connected with each other by connections in the first direction the x direction . The connection is located between two electrode portions arranged adjacent in the first direction the x direction . The length Le of the electrode portion is at least 3 times preferably 3 to 10 times more preferably 4 to 6 times longer than the length Lf of the connection in the first direction the x direction . In the example of the length Le is about 5 times as large as the length Lf. The second conductive pattern B contains a combination of a plurality of the first lattices and a plurality of the second lattices similarly to the first conductive pattern A. As described above the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B such that the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B overlap with each other. In this case the second lattices are used in the overlapping portions of the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B and the first lattices are used in the non overlapping portions. Thus in this example at least the electrode portion contains a plurality of the first lattices .

When the first conductive part A is stacked on the second conductive part B the second lattices in the first conductive patterns A overlap with the second lattices in the second conductive patterns B. In this case a connection point of the second lattice in the second conductive pattern B is positioned at the center of an opening of the second lattice in the first conductive pattern A.

As shown in one ends of adjacent two second conductive patterns B are combined and electrically connected to a second terminal wiring pattern composed of the thin metal wire by a second wire connection . The first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B such that the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B overlap with each other as hereinafter described. In this case the protrusions of the first conductive patterns A are each sandwiched by the combination of the two second conductive patterns B in the second direction the y direction . Thus one electrode portion corresponds to one protrusion .

As shown in in the first conductive sheet A used in the touch panel a large number of the first conductive patterns A are arranged in the sensing region and a plurality of the first terminal wiring patterns extend from the first wire connections in the terminal wiring region .

In the example of the first conductive sheet A and the sensing region each have a rectangular shape as viewed from above. In the terminal wiring region a plurality of first terminals are arranged in the longitudinal center in the length direction of the periphery on one long side of the first conductive sheet A. For example the odd numbered first wire connections are arranged in a straight line in the x direction along one short side of the sensing region a short side closest to one short side of the first conductive sheet A and the even numbered first wire connections are arranged in a straight line in the x direction along the other short side of the sensing region a short side closest to the other short side of the first conductive sheet A .

For example each odd numbered first conductive pattern A is connected to the corresponding odd numbered first wire connection and each even numbered first conductive pattern A is connected to the corresponding even numbered first wire connection . The first terminal wiring patterns extend from the odd numbered and even numbered first wire connections to the center of one long side of the first conductive sheet A and are each electrically connected to the corresponding first terminal . Thus for example the 1st and 2nd first terminal wiring patterns have approximately the same lengths and similarly the 2n 1 th and 2n th first terminal wiring patterns have approximately the same lengths n 1 2 3 . . . .

Of course the first terminals may be formed in a corner of the first conductive sheet A or the vicinity thereof. However in this case as described above the longest first terminal wiring pattern and the first terminal wiring patterns in the vicinity thereof are disadvantageously poor in the rate of transferring signal to the corresponding first conductive patterns A. Thus in this embodiment the first terminals are formed in the longitudinal center of the one long side of the first conductive sheet A whereby the local signal transfer rate deterioration is prevented leading to increase of the response speed.

As shown in in the second conductive sheet B used in the touch panel a large number of the above second conductive patterns B are arranged in the sensing region and a plurality of the second terminal wiring patterns composed of the thin metal wires extend from the second wire connections in the terminal wiring region .

As shown in in the terminal wiring region a plurality of second terminals are arranged in the longitudinal center in the length direction of the periphery on one long side of the second conductive sheet B. The second wire connections are arranged in a straight line in the y direction along one long side of the sensing region a long side closest to the one long side of the second conductive sheet B . The second terminal wiring pattern extends from each second wire connection to the center of the one long side of the second conductive sheet B and is electrically connected to the corresponding second terminal . Thus the second terminal wiring patterns connected to each pair of the corresponding second wire connections formed on the right and left of the one long side of the sensing region have approximately the same lengths. Of course the second terminals may be formed in a corner of the second conductive sheet B or the vicinity thereof. However in this case the length difference between the longest second terminal wiring pattern and the shortest second terminal wiring pattern is increased whereby the longest second terminal wiring pattern and the second terminal wiring patterns in the vicinity thereof are disadvantageously poor in the rate of transferring signal to the corresponding second conductive patterns B. Thus in this embodiment the second terminals are formed in the longitudinal center of the one long side of the second conductive sheet B whereby the local signal transfer rate deterioration is prevented leading to increase of the response speed.

The first terminal wiring patterns may be arranged in the same manner as the above second terminal wiring patterns and the second terminal wiring patterns may be arranged in the same manner as the above first terminal wiring patterns

When the first conductive sheet stack A is used in the touch panel the protective layer is formed on the first conductive sheet A and the first terminal wiring patterns extending from the first conductive patterns A in the first conductive sheet A and the second terminal wiring patterns extending from the second conductive patterns B in the second conductive sheet B are connected to a scan control circuit or the like.

A self or mutual capacitance technology can be preferably used for detecting the touch position. In the self capacitance technology a voltage signal for the touch position detection is sequentially supplied to the first conductive patterns A and further a voltage signal for the touch position detection is sequentially supplied to the second conductive patterns B. When a finger comes into contact with or close to the upper surface of the protective layer the capacitance between the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B in the touch position and the GND ground is increased whereby signals from this first conductive pattern A and this second conductive pattern B have waveforms different from those of signals from the other conductive patterns. Thus the touch position is calculated by a control circuit based on the signals transmitted from the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B. On the other hand in the mutual capacitance technology for example a voltage signal for the touch position detection is sequentially supplied to the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B are sequentially subjected to sensing transmitted signal detection . When a finger comes into contact with or close to the upper surface of the protective layer the parallel stray capacitance of the finger is added to the parasitic capacitance between the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B in the touch position whereby a signal from this second conductive pattern B has a waveform different from those of signals from the other second conductive patterns B. Thus the touch position is calculated by a control circuit based on the order of the first conductive pattern A supplied with the voltage signal and the signal transmitted from the second conductive pattern B. Even when two fingers come into contact with or close to the upper surface of the protective layer simultaneously the touch positions can be detected by using the self or mutual capacitance technology. Conventional related detection circuits used in the projected capacitive technologies are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 582 955 4 686 332 4 733 222 5 374 787 5 543 588 and 7 030 860 U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0155871 etc.

In this embodiment in the terminal wiring region the first terminals are formed in the longitudinal center of the periphery on the one long side of the first conductive sheet A and the second terminals are formed in the longitudinal center of the periphery on the one long side of the second conductive sheet B. Particularly in the example of the first terminals and the second terminals are close to each other and do not overlap with each other and the first terminal wiring patterns and the second terminal wiring patterns do not overlap with each other. For example the first terminal may partially overlap with the odd numbered second terminal wiring pattern

Thus the first terminals and the second terminals can be electrically connected to the control circuit by using a cable and two connectors a connector for the first terminals and a connector for the second terminals or one connector a complex connector for the first terminals and the second terminals .

Since the first terminal wiring patterns and the second terminal wiring patterns do not vertically overlap with each other a parasitic capacitance is reduced between the first terminal wiring patterns and the second terminal wiring patterns making it possible to prevent the response speed deterioration.

Since the first wire connections are arranged along the both short sides of the sensing region and the second wire connections are arranged along the one long side of the sensing region the area of the terminal wiring region can be reduced. Therefore the size of the display panel having the touch panel can be easily reduced and the display screen can be made to seem larger. Also the operability of the touch panel can be improved.

The area of the terminal wiring region may be further reduced by reducing the distance between the adjacent first terminal wiring patterns or the adjacent second terminal wiring patterns . The distance is preferably 10 m or more and 50 m or less in view of preventing migration.

Alternatively the area of the terminal wiring region may be reduced by arranging the second terminal wiring pattern between the adjacent first terminal wiring patterns in the view from above. However when the pattern is misaligned the first terminal wiring pattern may vertically overlap with the second terminal wiring pattern increasing the parasitic capacitance therebetween. This leads to deterioration of the response speed. Thus in the case of using such an arrangement the distance between the adjacent first terminal wiring patterns is preferably 50 m or more and 100 m or less.

As shown in first alignment marks and second alignment marks are preferably formed on the corners etc. of the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B. The first alignment marks and the second alignment marks are used for positioning the sheets in the process of bonding the sheets. When the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B are bonded to obtain the first conductive sheet stack A the first alignment marks and the second alignment marks form composite alignment marks. The composite alignment marks may be used for positioning the first conductive sheet stack A in the process of attaching to the display panel .

As shown in when the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B to form the first conductive sheet stack A the second lattices in the strips of the first conductive patterns A and the second lattices in the connections of the second conductive patterns B overlap with each other to form combined patterns . In this case the connection point of the second lattice in the second conductive pattern B is positioned at the center of the opening of the second lattice in the first conductive pattern A. Therefore the combined pattern contains a combination of a plurality of the first lattices . Thus the boundaries between the strips of the first conductive patterns A and the connections of the second conductive patterns B are made less visible to improve the visibility.

With regard to the sizes of the first conductive pattern A and the second conductive pattern B the length Le of the electrode portion is at least 2 times preferably 3 to 10 times more preferably 4 to 6 times larger than the width Lc of the strip in the first direction the x direction . The length La of the protrusion is smaller than the length Le of the electrode portion in the first direction the x direction . The width Ld of the protrusion is or less preferably or less more preferably or less of the length Lg of the electrode portion in the second direction.

Thus the occupation area of the second conductive patterns B is larger than that of the first conductive patterns A. In this case when the first conductive patterns A have an occupation area A1 and the second conductive patterns B have an occupation area A2 the first conductive sheet stack A satisfies the condition of 1

In general the second conductive patterns B which are located closer to the display device can act to reduce noise impact of an electromagnetic wave. Thus a skin current flows in a particular direction to block an electric field component of the electromagnetic wave and an eddy current flows in a particular direction to block a magnetic field component of the electromagnetic wave whereby the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave can be reduced. In the first conductive sheet stack A since the occupation area of the second conductive patterns B closer to the display device is larger than that of the first conductive patterns A the second conductive patterns B can have a low surface resistance of 70 ohm sq or less. Consequently the first conductive sheet stack A is advantageous in the reduction of the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave from the display device or the like.

In this embodiment the occupation area of the electrode portions containing the first lattices is larger than that of the protrusions containing the first lattices . In this case when the protrusions have an occupation area a1 and the electrode portions have an occupation area a2 the first conductive sheet stack A satisfies the condition of 1

Therefore in the case of using the self capacitance technology for the finger touch position detection though the electrode portions are positioned at a longer distance from the touch position than the protrusions the electrode portions can store a large amount of signal charge in the same manner as the protrusions and the electrode portions can exhibit a detection sensitivity approximately equal to that of the protrusions . Thus the burden of signal processing can be reduced and the detection accuracy can be improved. In the case of using the mutual capacitance technology for the finger touch position detection the electrode portions having the larger occupation area can be used as drive electrodes the protrusions can be used as receiving electrodes and the protrusions can exhibit a high receiving sensitivity. Furthermore even in a case where the first conductive patterns A partially overlap with the second conductive patterns B to form a parasitic capacitance since the first transparent substrate A has a thickness of 50 m or more and 350 m or less the increase of the parasitic capacitance can be prevented and the reduction of the detection sensitivity can be prevented.

The occupation area ratios can be easily achieved by appropriately controlling the above lengths La to Lg and L1 and L2 within the above ranges.

In this embodiment the protrusions and the electrode portions do not overlap with each other and a parasitic capacitance is hardly formed between the protrusions and the electrode portions . Meanwhile the second lattices in the first conductive patterns A overlap with the second lattices in the second conductive patterns B to form a parasitic capacitance therebetween. Thus only several points of the second lattices which are larger than the first lattices overlap with each other. Therefore the thin metal wires overlap with each other only at the several points and the first transparent substrate A has a thickness of 50 m or more and 350 m or less so that only a small parasitic capacitance is formed between the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B. In addition when the thickness of the first transparent substrate A is within the above range a desired visible light transmittance can be obtained and the first transparent substrate A can be easily handled.

Consequently even in the case of using the patterns of the thin metal wires in the electrodes the thin metal wires are less visible and the first conductive sheet stack A can have a high transparency an improved S N ratio of detection signal an improved detection sensitivity and an improved detection accuracy.

The sizes of the protrusion and the electrode portion are not particularly limited as long as they can satisfactorily detect the touch position of the human finger or input pen.

Though the first lattice and the second lattice each have a rhombic shape in the above example they may have another triangle or polygonal shape. The triangle shape can be easily formed e.g. by disposing a straight thin metal wire on a diagonal line of the rhombus of the first lattice or the second lattice . Each side of the first lattice and the second lattice may have a straight line shape a curved shape or an arc shape. In the case of using arc shaped sides for example two opposite sides may have an outwardly protruding arc shape and the other two opposite sides may have an inwardly protruding arc shape. Alternatively each side may have a wavy shape containing outwardly protruding arcs and inwardly protruding arcs arranged continuously. Of course each side may have a sine curve shape.

Also the sizes of the first lattices including the side lengths and the diagonal line lengths the number of the first lattices in the protrusion and the number of the first lattices in the electrode portion may be appropriately selected depending on the size and the resolution the line number of the touch panel .

A conductive sheet stack according to a second embodiment hereinafter referred to as the second conductive sheet stack B will be described below with reference to .

The second conductive sheet stack B has approximately the same structure as the first conductive sheet stack A but is different in that the patterns of the strip in the first conductive pattern A and the connection in the second conductive pattern B are as follows.

As shown in the connection contains two second lattices arranged in the second direction the y direction . In association with the connection as shown in the part of the second lattices in the strip of the first conductive pattern A is larger than that in the first conductive sheet stack A. As a result the occupation area ratio A2 A1 between the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B is larger in the second conductive sheet stack B than in the first conductive sheet stack A. Therefore the second conductive sheet stack B can more effectively act to reduce the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave from the display device or the like.

As shown in when the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B to form the second conductive sheet stack B the second lattices in the strips of the first conductive patterns A and the second lattices in the connections of the second conductive patterns B overlap with each other to form combined patterns . The combined pattern contains a combination of a plurality of the first lattices . Thus the boundaries between the strips of the first conductive patterns A and the connections of the second conductive patterns B are made less visible to improve the visibility.

A conductive sheet stack according to a third embodiment hereinafter referred to as the third conductive sheet stack C will be described below with reference to .

The third conductive sheet stack C has approximately the same structure as the first conductive sheet stack A but is different in that the patterns of the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B are as follows.

As shown in the first conductive part A has first auxiliary patterns A between the first conductive patterns A. The first auxiliary patterns A are not connected to the first conductive patterns A. In the first auxiliary patterns A a chain pattern containing a plurality of the first lattices a partial pattern corresponding to a part of the first lattice such as an L shaped pattern a straight line pattern or a T shaped pattern and the like are arranged so that spaces between the second conductive patterns B shown in other than portions overlapping with the strips and the protrusions of the first conductive patterns A are filled with the arranged patterns.

As shown in the second conductive part B has second auxiliary patterns B between the second conductive patterns B. The second auxiliary patterns B are not connected to the second conductive patterns B. In the second auxiliary patterns B a wavy pattern corresponding to a half of a chain pattern containing a plurality of the first lattices a partial pattern corresponding to a part of the first lattice such as an L shaped pattern or a straight line pattern and the like are arranged so that spaces between the first conductive patterns A shown in other than portions overlapping with the connections and the electrode portions of the second conductive patterns B are filled with the arranged patterns.

As shown in when the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B to form the third conductive sheet stack C the second lattices in the first conductive patterns A and the second lattices in the second conductive patterns B overlap with each other to form first combined patterns A. In this case the connection point of the second lattice in the second conductive pattern B is positioned at the center of the opening of the second lattice in the first conductive pattern A. Therefore the first combined pattern A contains a combination of a plurality of the first lattices .

Furthermore when the first conductive part A is stacked on the second conductive part B the first auxiliary patterns A and the second auxiliary patterns B overlap with each other to form second combined patterns B. In this case the spaces between the second conductive patterns B shown in other than the portions overlapping with the strips and the protrusions are filled with the first auxiliary patterns A and the first auxiliary patterns A are compensated by the second auxiliary patterns B. Therefore also the second combined pattern B contains a combination of a plurality of the first lattices .

Consequently as shown in the entire surface is covered with a plurality of the first lattices and the boundaries between the protrusions and the electrode portions can hardly be found. Then the improved visibility can be achieved.

A conductive sheet stack according to a fourth embodiment hereinafter referred to as the fourth conductive sheet stack D will be described below with reference to .

The fourth conductive sheet stack D has approximately the same structure as the first conductive sheet stack A but is different in that the patterns of the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B are as follows.

As shown in in the first conductive patterns A the ends of the protrusions extending from one strip toward the adjacent strip and the ends of the protrusions extending from the adjacent strip toward the one strip face each other. Thus in the first conductive patterns A the length La of the protrusion extending from either side of the strip is smaller than of the length Lb between the adjacent strips in the first direction the x direction . For example the length La is at least Lb 8 but less than Lb 2 preferably at least Lb 4 but less than Lb 2.

Specifically the first conductive pattern A is mainly composed of a plurality of the first lattices and a first connection in the strip which does not intersect with the protrusion contains a plurality of the second lattices . The first connection overlaps with a second connection in the second conductive pattern B to be hereinafter described. The second lattices in the first connection are different in size from the second lattices in the first conductive sheet stack A to the third conductive sheet stack C. More specifically the first connection contains two types of second lattices and . The size of one second lattice corresponds to the total size of r first lattices in which r is an integer larger than 1 arranged in a first oblique direction an s direction . The size of the other second lattice corresponds to the total size of p q first lattices in which p and q are each an integer larger than 1 . Thus the other second lattice is provided such that p first lattices are arranged in the first oblique direction and q first lattices are arranged in a second oblique direction at direction . In the example of r is 7 and the size of the one second lattice corresponds to the total size of seven first lattices arranged in the first oblique direction. Furthermore p is 3 in the first oblique direction q is 5 in the second oblique direction and the size of the other second lattice corresponds to the total size of fifteen first lattices .

The first conductive part A has first auxiliary patterns A along the strips and the protrusions in the first conductive patterns A. The first auxiliary patterns A are not connected to the first conductive patterns A. In the first auxiliary patterns A a partial pattern corresponding to a part of the first lattice such as an L shaped pattern is arranged so that spaces between the second conductive patterns B shown in other than portions overlapping with the strips and the protrusions of the first conductive patterns A are filled with the arranged patterns.

As shown in in the second conductive part B the second conductive pattern B contains a plurality of the electrode portions which are connected with each other by the second connections in the first direction the x direction . The length Le of the electrode portion is at least 2 times longer than the length Lf of the second connection in the first direction the x direction .

The second conductive pattern B contains a combination of a plurality of the first lattices and a plurality of the second lattices similarly to the first conductive pattern A. Also in this example at least the electrode portion contains a plurality of the first lattices and the second connection contains a plurality of the second lattices . The second connection contains two types of the second lattices and similarly to the first connection . The size of one second lattice corresponds to the total size of r first lattices in which r is an integer larger than 1 arranged in the second oblique direction the t direction . The size of the other second lattice corresponds to the total size of p q first lattices in which p and q are each an integer larger than 1 . Thus the other second lattice is provided such that p first lattices are arranged in the second oblique direction and q first lattices are arranged in the first oblique direction the direction . In the example of r is 7 and the size of the one second lattice corresponds to the total size of seven first lattices arranged in the second oblique direction. Furthermore p is 3 in the second oblique direction q is 5 in the first oblique direction and the size of the other second lattice corresponds to the total size of fifteen first lattices .

When the first conductive part A is stacked on the second conductive part B the second lattices in the first conductive patterns A overlap with the second lattices in the second conductive patterns B. In this case the one second lattice in the first connection intersects with the one second lattice in the second connection and the other second lattice in the first connection intersects with the other second lattice in the second connection

The second conductive part B further has second auxiliary patterns B along the electrode portions in the second conductive patterns B. The second auxiliary patterns B are not connected to the second conductive patterns B. In the second auxiliary patterns B a pattern of the first lattice a wavy pattern containing a plurality of L shaped patterns corresponding to a part of the first lattice a partial pattern corresponding to a part of the first lattice such as a cross shaped pattern or a straight line pattern and the like are arranged so that spaces between the first conductive patterns A shown in other than portions overlapping with the second connections and the electrode portions of the second conductive patterns B are filled with the arranged patterns.

As shown in when the first conductive sheet A is stacked on the second conductive sheet B to form the fourth conductive sheet stack D the second lattices in the first connections of the first conductive patterns A and the second lattices in the second connections of the second conductive patterns B overlap with each other to form first combined patterns A. In this case the one second lattice in the first connection intersects with the one second lattice in the second connection and the other second lattice in the first connection intersects with the other second lattice in the second connection . Therefore the first combined pattern A contains a combination of a plurality of the first lattices .

Furthermore when the first conductive part A is stacked on the second conductive part B the first auxiliary patterns A and the second auxiliary patterns B overlap with each other to form second combined patterns B. In this case the spaces between the second conductive patterns B shown in other than the portions overlapping with the strips and the protrusions are filled with the first auxiliary patterns A and the first auxiliary patterns A are compensated by the second auxiliary patterns B. Therefore also the second combined pattern B contains a combination of a plurality of the first lattices .

Consequently as shown in the entire surface is covered with a plurality of the first lattices and the boundaries between the protrusions and the electrode portions can hardly be found. Then the improved visibility can be achieved.

Though the first conductive sheet stack A to the fourth conductive sheet stack D are used in the projected capacitive touch panel in the above examples they may be used in a surface capacitive touch panel or a resistive touch panel.

All of the first conductive sheet stack A to the fourth conductive sheet stack D are hereinafter referred to as the conductive sheet stack .

In the above conductive sheet stack as shown in the first conductive part A is formed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A the second conductive part B is formed on the one main surface of the second transparent substrate B and they are stacked. Alternatively as shown in the first conductive part A may be formed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A and the second conductive part B may be formed on the other main surface of the first transparent substrate A. In this case the second transparent substrate B is not used the first transparent substrate A is stacked on the second conductive part B and the first conductive part A is stacked on the first transparent substrate A. In addition another layer may be disposed between the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B. The first conductive part A and the second conductive part B may be arranged facing each other as long as they are insulated.

The first conductive part A and the second conductive part B may be formed as follows. For example a photosensitive material having the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B and thereon a photosensitive silver halide containing emulsion layer may be exposed and developed whereby metallic silver portions and light transmitting portions may be formed in the exposed areas and the unexposed areas respectively to obtain the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B. The metallic silver portions may be subjected to a physical development treatment and or a plating treatment to deposit a conductive metal thereon.

As shown in the first conductive part A may be formed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A and the second conductive part B may be formed on the other main surface thereof. In this case when the one main surface is exposed and then the other main surface is exposed in the usual method the desired patterns cannot be obtained on the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B occasionally. In particular it is difficult to uniformly form the protrusions extending from the strips and the like as shown in etc.

Thus the first conductive part A on the one main surface and the second conductive part B on the other main surface can be formed by subjecting the photosensitive silver halide emulsion layers on both sides of the first transparent substrate A to one shot exposure.

First in step S of a long photosensitive material is prepared. As shown in the photosensitive material has the first transparent substrate A a photosensitive silver halide emulsion layer formed on one main surface of the first transparent substrate A hereinafter referred to as the first photosensitive layer and a photosensitive silver halide emulsion layer formed on the other main surface of the first transparent substrate A hereinafter referred to as the second photosensitive layer .

In step S of the photosensitive material is exposed. In this exposure step a simultaneous both side exposure which includes a first exposure treatment for irradiating the first photosensitive layer on the first transparent substrate A with a light in a first exposure pattern and a second exposure treatment for irradiating the second photosensitive layer on the first transparent substrate A with a light in a second exposure pattern is carried out. In the example of the first photosensitive layer is irradiated through a first photomask with a first light a parallel light and the second photosensitive layer is irradiated through a second photomask with a second light a parallel light while conveying the long photosensitive material in one direction. The first light is arranged such that a light from a first light source is converted to the parallel light by an intermediate first collimator lens and the second light is arranged such that a light from a second light source is converted to the parallel light by an intermediate second collimator lens . Though two light sources the first light source and the second light source are used in the example of only one light source may be used. In this case a light from the one light source may be divided by an optical system into the first light and the second light for exposing the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer

In step S of the exposed photosensitive material is developed to prepare e.g. the conductive sheet stack shown in . The conductive sheet stack has the first transparent substrate A the first conductive part A formed in the first exposure pattern on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A and the second conductive part B formed in the second exposure pattern on the other main surface of the first transparent substrate A. Preferred exposure time and development time for the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer depend on the types of the first light source the second light source and a developer etc. and cannot be categorically determined. The exposure time and development time may be selected in view of achieving a development ratio of 80 to 100 .

As shown in in the first exposure treatment in the production method of this embodiment for example the first photomask is placed in close contact with the first photosensitive layer the first light source is arranged facing the first photomask and the first light is emitted from the first light source toward the first photomask so that the first photosensitive layer is exposed. The first photomask has a glass substrate composed of a transparent soda glass and a mask pattern a first exposure pattern formed thereon. Therefore in the first exposure treatment areas in the first photosensitive layer corresponding to the first exposure pattern in the first photomask are exposed. A space of approximately 2 to 10 m may be formed between the first photosensitive layer and the first photomask

Similarly in the second exposure treatment for example the second photomask is placed in close contact with the second photosensitive layer the second light source is arranged facing the second photomask and the second light is emitted from the second light source toward the second photomask so that the second photosensitive layer is exposed. The second photomask as well as the first photomask has a glass substrate composed of a transparent soda glass and a mask pattern a second exposure pattern formed thereon. Therefore in the second exposure treatment areas in the second photosensitive layer corresponding to the second exposure pattern in the second photomask are exposed. In this case a space of approximately 2 to 10 m may be formed between the second photosensitive layer and the second photomask

In the first and second exposure treatments the emission of the first light from the first light source and the emission of the second light from the second light source may be carried out simultaneously or independently. When the emissions are simultaneously carried out the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer can be simultaneously exposed in one exposure process to reduce the treatment time.

In a case where both of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer are not spectrally sensitized a light incident on one side may affect the image formation on the other side the back side in the both side exposure of the photosensitive material .

Thus the first light from the first light source reaches the first photosensitive layer and is scattered by silver halide particles in the first photosensitive layer and a part of the scattered light is transmitted through the first transparent substrate A and reaches the second photosensitive layer . Then a large area of the boundary between the second photosensitive layer and the first transparent substrate A is exposed to form a latent image. As a result the second photosensitive layer is exposed to the second light from the second light source and the first light from the first light source . When the second photosensitive layer is developed to prepare the conductive sheet stack the conductive pattern corresponding to the second exposure pattern the second conductive part B is formed and additionally a thin conductive layer is formed due to the first light from the first light source between the conductive pattern so that the desired pattern corresponding to the second exposure pattern cannot be obtained. This is true also for the first photosensitive layer

As a result of intense research in view of solving this problem it has been found that when the thicknesses and the applied silver amounts of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer are selected within particular ranges the incident light can be absorbed by the silver halide to suppress the light transmission to the back side. In this embodiment the thicknesses of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer may be 1 m or more and 4 m or less. The upper limit is preferably 2.5 m. The applied silver amounts of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer may be 5 to 20 g m.

In the above described contact both side exposure technology the exposure may be inhibited by dust or the like attached to the film surface to generate an image defect. It is known that the dust attachment can be prevented by applying a conductive substance such as a metal oxide or a conductive polymer to the film. However the metal oxide or the like remains in the processed product deteriorating the transparency of the final product and the conductive polymer is disadvantageous in storage stability etc. As a result of intense research it has been found that a silver halide layer with reduced binder content exhibits a satisfactory conductivity for static charge prevention. Thus the volume ratio of silver binder is controlled in the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer . The silver binder volume ratios of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer are 1 1 or more preferably 2 1 or more.

In a case where the thicknesses the applied silver amounts and the silver binder volume ratios of the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer are selected as described above the first light emitted from the first light source to the first photosensitive layer does not reach the second photosensitive layer as shown in . Similarly the second light emitted from the second light source to the second photosensitive layer does not reach the first photosensitive layer . As a result in the following development for producing the conductive sheet stack as shown in only the conductive pattern corresponding to the first exposure pattern the pattern of the first conductive part A is formed on the one main surface of the first transparent substrate A and only the conductive pattern corresponding to the second exposure pattern the pattern of the second conductive part B is formed on the other main surface of the first transparent substrate A so that the desired patterns can be obtained.

In the production method using the above one shot both side exposure the first photosensitive layer and the second photosensitive layer can have both of the satisfactory conductivity and both side exposure suitability and the same or different patterns can be formed on the surfaces of the one first transparent substrate A by the exposure whereby the electrodes of the touch panel can be easily formed and the touch panel can be made thinner smaller .

In the above production method the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B are formed using the photosensitive silver halide emulsion layers. The other production methods include the following methods.

A photosensitive layer to be plated base layer containing a pre plating treatment material may be formed on the first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B. The resultant layer may be exposed and developed and may be subjected to a plating treatment whereby metal portions and light transmitting portions may be formed in the exposed areas and the unexposed areas respectively to form the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B. The metal portions may be further subjected to a physical development treatment and or a plating treatment to deposit a conductive metal thereon.

The following two processes can be preferably used in the method using the pre plating treatment material. The processes are disclosed more specifically in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2003 213437 2006 64923 2006 58797 and 2006 135271 etc.

 a A process comprising applying to a transparent substrate a plating base layer having a functional group interactable with a plating catalyst or a precursor thereof exposing and developing the layer and subjecting the developed layer to a plating treatment to form a metal portion on the plating base material.

 b A process comprising applying to a transparent substrate an underlayer containing a polymer and a metal oxide and a plating base layer having a functional group interactable with a plating catalyst or a precursor thereof in this order exposing and developing the layers and subjecting the developed layers to a plating treatment to form a metal portion on the plating base material.

Alternatively a photoresist film on a copper foil disposed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B may be exposed and developed to form a resist pattern and the copper foil exposed from the resist pattern may be etched to form the first conductive part A or the second conductive part B.

A paste containing fine metal particles may be printed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B and the printed paste may be plated with a metal to form the first conductive part A or the second conductive part B.

The first conductive part A or the second conductive part B may be printed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B by using a screen or gravure printing plate.

The first conductive part A or the second conductive part B may be formed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B by using an inkjet method.

A particularly preferred method which contains using a photographic photosensitive silver halide material for producing the first conductive sheet A or the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment will be mainly described below.

The method for producing the first conductive sheet A or the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment includes the following three processes different in the photosensitive materials and development treatments.

 1 A process comprising subjecting a photosensitive black and white silver halide material free of physical development nuclei to a chemical or thermal development to form the metallic silver portions on the photosensitive material.

 2 A process comprising subjecting a photosensitive black and white silver halide material having a silver halide emulsion layer containing physical development nuclei to a solution physical development to form the metallic silver portions on the photosensitive material.

 3 A process comprising subjecting a stack of a photosensitive black and white silver halide material free of physical development nuclei and an image receiving sheet having a non photosensitive layer containing physical development nuclei to a diffusion transfer development to form the metallic silver portions on the non photosensitive image receiving sheet.

In the process of 1 an integral black and white development procedure is used to form a transmittable conductive film such as a light transmitting conductive film on the photosensitive material. The resulting silver is a chemically or thermally developed silver in the state of a high specific surface area filament and thereby shows a high activity in the following plating or physical development treatment.

In the process of 2 the silver halide particles are melted around and deposited on the physical development nuclei in the exposed areas to form a transmittable conductive film such as a light transmitting conductive film on the photosensitive material. Also in this process an integral black and white development procedure is used. Though high activity can be achieved since the silver halide is deposited on the physical development nuclei in the development the developed silver has a spherical shape with small specific surface.

In the process of 3 the silver halide particles are melted in the unexposed areas and are diffused and deposited on the development nuclei of the image receiving sheet to form a transmittable conductive film such as a light transmitting conductive film on the sheet. In this process a so called separate type procedure is used the image receiving sheet being peeled off from the photosensitive material.

A negative or reversal development treatment can be used in the processes. In the diffusion transfer development the negative development treatment can be carried out using an auto positive photosensitive material.

The chemical development thermal development solution physical development and diffusion transfer development have the meanings generally known in the art and are explained in common photographic chemistry texts such as Shin ichi Kikuchi Kyoritsu Shuppan Co. Ltd. 1955 and C. E. K. Mees 4. Mcmillan 1977. A liquid treatment is generally used in the present invention and also a thermal development treatment can be utilized. For example techniques described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication Nos. 2004 184693 2004 334077 and 2005 010752 and Japanese Patent Application Nos. 2004 244080 and 2004 085655 can be used in the present invention.

The structure of each layer in the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment will be described in detail below.

The first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B may be a plastic film a plastic plate a glass plate etc.

Examples of materials for the plastic film and the plastic plate include polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalates PET and polyethylene naphthalates PEN polyolefins such as polyethylenes PE polypropylenes PP polystyrenes and EVA vinyl resins polycarbonates PC polyamides polyimides acrylic resins and triacetyl celluloses TAC .

The first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B are preferably a film or plate of a plastic having a melting point of about 290 C. or lower such as PET melting point 258 C. PEN melting point 269 C. PE melting point 135 C. PP melting point 163 C. polystyrene melting point 230 C. polyvinyl chloride melting point 180 C. polyvinylidene chloride melting point 212 C. or TAC melting point 290 C. . The PET is particularly preferred from the viewpoints of light transmittance workability etc. The conductive film such as the first conductive sheet A or the second conductive sheet B used in the conductive sheet stack is required to be transparent and therefore the first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B preferably have a high transparency.

The silver salt emulsion layer for forming the conductive portions of the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B including the first conductive patterns A the first auxiliary patterns A the second conductive patterns B and the second auxiliary patterns B contains a silver salt and a binder and may further contain a solvent and an additive such as a dye.

The silver salt used in this embodiment may be an inorganic silver salt such as a silver halide or an organic silver salt such as silver acetate. In this embodiment the silver halide is preferred because of its excellent light sensing property.

The applied silver amount the amount of the applied silver salt in the silver density of the silver salt emulsion layer is preferably 1 to 30 g m more preferably 1 to 25 m further preferably 5 to 20 g m. When the applied silver amount is within this range the resultant conductive sheet stack can exhibit a desired surface resistance.

Examples of the binders used in this embodiment include gelatins polyvinyl alcohols PVA polyvinyl pyrolidones PVP polysaccharides such as starches celluloses and derivatives thereof polyethylene oxides polyvinylamines chitosans polylysines polyacrylic acids polyalginic acids polyhyaluronic acids and carboxycelluloses. The binders show a neutral anionic or cationic property depending on the ionicity of a functional group.

In this embodiment the amount of the binder in the silver salt emulsion layer is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected to obtain sufficient dispersion and adhesion properties. The volume ratio of silver binder in the silver salt emulsion layer is preferably 1 4 or more more preferably 1 2 or more. The silver binder volume ratio is preferably 100 1 or less more preferably 50 1 or less. Particularly the silver binder volume ratio is further preferably 1 1 to 4 1 most preferably 1 1 to 3 1. As long as the silver binder volume ratio of the silver salt emulsion layer falls within this range the resistance variation can be reduced even under various applied silver amount whereby the conductive sheet stack can be produced with a uniform surface resistance. The silver binder volume ratio can be obtained by converting the silver halide binder weight ratio of the material to the silver binder weight ratio and by further converting the silver binder weight ratio to the silver binder volume ratio.

The solvent used for forming the silver salt emulsion layer is not particularly limited and examples thereof include water organic solvents e.g. alcohols such as methanol ketones such as acetone amides such as formamide sulfoxides such as dimethyl sulfoxide esters such as ethyl acetate ethers ionic liquids and mixtures thereof.

In this embodiment the ratio of the solvent to the total of the silver salt the binder and the like in the silver salt emulsion layer is 30 to 90 by mass preferably 50 to 80 by mass.

The additives used in this embodiment are not particularly limited and may be preferably selected from known additives.

A protective layer not shown may be formed on the silver salt emulsion layer. The protective layer used in this embodiment contains a binder such as a gelatin or a high molecular polymer and is disposed on the photosensitive silver salt emulsion layer to improve the scratch prevention or mechanical property. The thickness of the protective layer is preferably 0.5 m or less. The method of applying or forming the protective layer is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected from known applying or forming methods. In addition an undercoat layer or the like may be formed below the silver salt emulsion layer.

The steps for producing the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B will be described below.

In this embodiment the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B may be formed in a printing process and may be formed by exposure and development treatments etc. in another process. Thus a photosensitive material having the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B and thereon the silver salt containing layer or a photosensitive material coated with a photopolymer for photolithography is subjected to the exposure treatment. An electromagnetic wave may be used in the exposure. For example the electromagnetic wave may be a light such as a visible light or an ultraviolet light or a radiation ray such as an X ray. The exposure may be carried out using a light source having a wavelength distribution or a specific wavelength.

In this embodiment the emulsion layer is subjected to the development treatment after the exposure. Common development treatment technologies for photographic silver salt films photographic papers print engraving films emulsion masks for photomasking and the like may be used in the present invention. The developer used in the development treatment is not particularly limited and may be a PQ developer an MQ developer an MAA developer etc. Examples of commercially available developers usable in the present invention include CN 16 CR 56 CP45X FD 3 and PAPITOL available from FUJIFILM Corporation C 41 E 6 RA 4 D 19 and D 72 available from Eastman Kodak Company and developers contained in kits thereof. The developer may be a lith developer.

In the present invention the development process may include a fixation treatment for removing the silver salt in the unexposed areas to stabilize the material. Fixation treatment technologies for photographic silver salt films photographic papers print engraving films emulsion masks for photomasking and the like may be used in the present invention.

In the fixation treatment the fixation temperature is preferably about 20 C. to 50 C. more preferably 25 C. to 45 C. The fixation time is preferably 5 seconds to 1 minute more preferably 7 to 50 seconds. The amount of the fixer used is preferably 600 ml mor less more preferably 500 ml mor less particularly preferably 300 ml mor less per 1 mof the photosensitive material treated.

The developed and fixed photosensitive material is preferably subjected to a water washing treatment or a stabilization treatment. The amount of water used in the water washing or stabilization treatment is generally 20 L or less and may be 3 L or less per 1 mof the photosensitive material. The water amount may be 0 and thus the photosensitive material may be washed with storage water.

The ratio of the metallic silver contained in the exposed areas after the development to the silver contained in the areas before the exposure is preferably 50 or more more preferably 80 or more by mass. When the ratio is 50 or more by mass a high conductivity can be achieved.

In this embodiment the tone gradation obtained by the development is preferably more than 4.0 though not particularly restrictive. When the tone is more than 4.0 after the development the conductivity of the conductive metal portion can be increased while maintaining the high transmittance of the light transmitting portion. For example the tone of 4.0 or more can be obtained by doping with rhodium or iridium ion.

The conductive sheet is obtained by the above steps. The surface resistance of the resultant first conductive sheet A or second conductive sheet B is preferably within a range of 0.1 to 100 ohm sq. The lower limit is preferably 1 ohm sq or more 3 ohm sq or more 5 ohm sq or more or 10 ohm sq or more. The upper limit is preferably 70 ohm sq or less or 50 ohm sq or less. When the surface resistance is controlled within this range the position detection can be performed even in a large touch panel having an area of 10 cm 10 cm or more. The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B may be subjected to a calender treatment after the development treatment to obtain a desired surface resistance.

In this embodiment to increase the conductivity of the metallic silver portion formed by the above exposure and development treatments conductive metal particles may be deposited thereon by a physical development treatment and or a plating treatment. In the present invention the conductive metal particles may be deposited on the metallic silver portion by only one of the physical development and plating treatments or by the combination of the treatments. The metallic silver portion subjected to the physical development treatment and or the plating treatment in this manner is also referred to as the conductive metal portion.

In this embodiment the physical development is such a process that metal ions such as silver ions are reduced by a reducing agent whereby metal particles are deposited on a metal or metal compound core. Such physical development has been used in the fields of instant B W film instant slide film printing plate production etc. and the technologies can be used in the present invention.

The physical development may be carried out at the same time as the above development treatment after the exposure and may be carried out after the development treatment separately.

In this embodiment the plating treatment may contain electroless plating such as chemical reduction plating or displacement plating electrolytic plating or a combination thereof. Known electroless plating technologies for printed circuit boards etc. may be used in this embodiment. The electroless plating is preferably electroless copper plating.

In this embodiment the metallic silver portion formed by the development treatment or the conductive metal portion formed by the physical development treatment and or the plating treatment is preferably subjected to an oxidation treatment. For example by the oxidation treatment a small amount of a metal deposited on the light transmitting portion can be removed so that the transmittance of the light transmitting portion can be increased to approximately 100 .

In this embodiment the lower limit of the line width of the conductive metal portion the thin metal wire may be 0.1 m or more as described above. The lower limit of the line width is preferably 1 m or more 3 m or more 4 m or more or 5 m or more and the upper limit thereof is preferably 15 m or less 10 m or less 9 m or less or 8 m or less. When the line width is less than the lower limit the conductive metal portion has an insufficient conductivity whereby a touch panel using the portion has insufficient detection sensitivity. On the other hand when the line width is more than the upper limit moire is significantly generated due to the conductive metal portion and a touch panel using the portion has a poor visibility. As long as the line width falls within the above range the moire of the conductive metal portion is improved and the visibility is remarkably improved. The side length of the first lattice is preferably 30 m or more and 500 m or less more preferably 50 m or more and 400 m or less most preferably 100 m or more and 350 m or less. The conductive metal portion may have a part with a line width of more than 200 m for the purpose of ground connection etc.

In this embodiment the opening ratio of the conductive metal portion is preferably 85 or more more preferably 90 or more most preferably 95 or more in view of the visible light transmittance. The opening ratio is the ratio of the light transmitting portions other than the conductive portions including the first conductive patterns the first auxiliary patterns the second conductive patterns and the second auxiliary patterns to the entire conductive part. For example a square lattice having a line width of 15 m and a pitch of 300 m has an opening ratio of 90 .

In this embodiment the light transmitting portion is a portion having light transmittance other than the conductive metal portions in the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B. The transmittance of the light transmitting portion which is herein a minimum transmittance value in a wavelength region of 380 to 780 nm obtained neglecting the light absorption and reflection of the first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B is 90 or more preferably 95 or more more preferably 97 or more further preferably 98 or more most preferably 99 or more.

The exposure is preferably carried out using a glass mask method or a laser lithography pattern exposure method.

In the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment the thicknesses of the first transparent substrate A and the second transparent substrate B are preferably 50 to 350 m more preferably 80 to 250 m particularly preferably 100 to 200 m. When the thicknesses are within the range of 50 to 350 m a desired visible light transmittance can be obtained the substrates can be easily handled and the parasitic capacitance between the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B can be lowered.

The thickness of the metallic silver portion formed on the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B may be appropriately selected by controlling the thickness of the coating liquid for the silver salt containing layer applied to the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B. The thickness of the metallic silver portion may be selected within a range of 0.001 to 0.2 mm and is preferably 30 m or less more preferably 20 m or less further preferably 0.01 to 9 m most preferably 0.05 to 5 m. The metallic silver portion is preferably formed in a patterned shape. The metallic silver portion may have a monolayer structure or a multilayer structure containing two or more layers. When the metallic silver portion has a patterned multilayer structure containing two or more layers the layers may have different wavelength color sensitivities. In this case different patterns can be formed in the layers by using exposure lights with different wavelengths.

In the case of using the first conductive sheet A or the second conductive sheet B in a touch panel the conductive metal portion preferably has a smaller thickness. As the thickness is reduced the viewing angle and visibility of the display panel are improved. Thus the thickness of the layer of the conductive metal on the conductive metal portion is preferably less than 9 m more preferably 0.1 m or more but less than 5 m further preferably 0.1 m or more but less than 3 m.

In this embodiment the thickness of the metallic silver portion can be controlled by changing the coating thickness of the silver salt containing layer and the thickness of the conductive metal particle layer can be controlled in the physical development treatment and or the plating treatment whereby the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B having a thickness of less than 5 m preferably less than 3 m can be easily produced.

The plating or the like is not necessarily carried out in the method for producing the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of this embodiment. This is because the desired surface resistance can be obtained by controlling the applied silver amount and the silver binder volume ratio of the silver salt emulsion layer in the method. The calender treatment or the like may be carried out if necessary.

It is preferred that after the silver salt emulsion layer is developed the resultant is immersed in a hardener and thus subjected to a film hardening treatment. Examples of the hardeners include dialdehydes such as glutaraldehyde adipaldehyde and 2 3 dihydroxy 1 4 dioxane and boric acid described in Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. 02 141279.

An additional functional layer such as an antireflection layer or a hard coat layer may be formed in the conductive sheet stack .

The present invention may be appropriately combined with technologies described in the following patent publications and international patent pamphlets shown in Tables 1 and 2. Japanese Laid Open Patent Publication No. Pamphlet No. etc. are omitted.

The present invention will be described more specifically below with reference to Examples. Materials amounts ratios treatment contents treatment procedures and the like used in Examples may be appropriately changed without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following specific examples are therefore to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.

In First Example in each of the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 1 to 9 the side length of the first lattice the line width of the thin metal wire and the surface resistance of the representative second conductive pattern B were measured and the moire and visibility were evaluated. The properties and evaluation results of Examples 1 to 9 are shown in Table 3.

An emulsion containing an aqueous medium a gelatin and silver iodobromochloride particles was prepared. The amount of the gelatin was 10.0 g per 150 g of Ag and the silver iodobromochloride particles had an I content of 0.2 mol a Br content of 40 mol and an average spherical equivalent diameter of 0.1 m.

KRhBrand KIrClwere added to the emulsion at a concentration of 10 mol mol silver to dope the silver bromide particles with Rh and Ir ions. NaPdClwas further added to the emulsion and the resultant emulsion was subjected to gold sulfur sensitization using chlorauric acid and sodium thiosulfate. The emulsion and a gelatin hardening agent were applied to the first transparent substrate A or the second transparent substrate B having a thickness of 150 m both composed of a polyethylene terephthalate PET . The amount of the applied silver was 10 g m and the Ag gelatin volume ratio was 2 1.

The PET support had a width of 30 cm and the emulsion was applied thereto into a width of 25 cm and a length of 20 m. The both end portions having a width of 3 cm were cut off to obtain a roll photosensitive silver halide material having a width of 24 cm.

An A4 210 mm 297 mm sized area of the first transparent substrate A was exposed in the pattern of the first conductive sheet A shown in and an A4 sized area of the second transparent substrate B was exposed in the pattern of the second conductive sheet B shown in . The exposure was carried out using a parallel light from a light source of a high pressure mercury lamp and patterned photomasks.

The exposed photosensitive material was treated with the above treatment agents using an automatic processor FG 710PTS manufactured by FUJIFILM Corporation under the following conditions. A development treatment was carried out at 35 C. for 30 seconds a fixation treatment was carried out at 34 C. for 23 seconds and then a water washing treatment was carried out for 20 seconds at a water flow rate of 5 L min.

In the conductive parts including the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B of the prepared first conductive sheet A and second conductive sheet B the side length of the first lattice was 30 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 60 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 1 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 2 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that the side length of the first lattice was 40 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 80 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 3 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 3 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that the side length of the first lattice was 50 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 100 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 4 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 4 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that the side length of the first lattice was 80 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 160 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 5 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 5 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that the side length of the first lattice was 100 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 200 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 8 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 6 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that the side length of the first lattice was 250 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 500 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 9 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 7 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that the side length of the first lattice was 350 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 700 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 10 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 8 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that the side length of the first lattice was 400 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 800 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 15 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 9 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that the side length of the first lattice was 500 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 1000 m and the line width of the thin metal wire was 15 m.

In each of the first conductive sheets A and the second conductive sheets B the surface resistivity values of randomly selected 10 points were measured by LORESTA GP Model No. MCP T610 manufactured by Dia Instruments Co. Ltd. utilizing an in line four probe method ASP and the average of the measured values was obtained to evaluate the detection accuracy.

In Examples 1 to 9 the first conductive sheet A was stacked on the second conductive sheet B to prepare the conductive sheet stack and the conductive sheet stack was attached to the display screen of the display device liquid crystal display to produce the touch panel . The touch panel was fixed to a turntable and the display device was operated to display a white color. The moire of the conductive sheet stack was visually observed and evaluated while turning the turntable within a bias angle range of 45 to 45 .

The moire was observed at a distance of 1.5 m from the display screen of the display device . The conductive sheet stack was evaluated as Good when the moire was not visible as Fair when the moire was slightly visible to an acceptable extent or as Poor when the moire was highly visible.

Before the moire evaluation the touch panel was fixed to the turntable the display device was operated to display the white color and whether a thickened line or a black point was formed or not in the touch panel and whether boundaries between the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B and between the strips and the connections were visible or not in the touch panel were evaluated by the naked eye.

As shown in Table 3 among Examples 1 to 9 the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 1 to 8 had excellent conductivity transmittance moire and visibility properties. The conductive sheet stack of Example 9 was inferior to those of Examples 1 to 8 in the moire and visibility properties. However in Example 9 the moire was only slightly visible to an acceptable extent and an image on the display device could be observed without any difficulty.

Therefore it is clear that the side length of the first lattice is preferably 30 to 500 m more preferably 50 to 400 m particularly preferably 100 to 350 m. Furthermore it is clear that the lower limit of the line width of the thin metal wire is preferably 1 m or more 3 m or more 4 m or more or 5 m or more and the upper limit is preferably 15 m or less 10 m or less 9 m or less or 8 m or less.

In Second Example in the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 11 to 17 and Reference Examples 11 and 12 the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was changed to evaluate the detection sensitivity and the visibility. The properties and evaluation results of Examples 11 to 17 and References Example 11 and 12 are shown in Table 4.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 11 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that in the conductive parts including the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B the side length of the first lattice was 80 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 160 m the line width of the thin metal wire was 5 m and the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 50 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 12 were produced in the same manner as Example 11 except that the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 80 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 13 were produced in the same manner as Example 11 except that the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 100 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 14 were produced in the same manner as Example 11 except that the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 150 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 15 were produced in the same manner as Example 11 except that the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 200 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 16 were produced in the same manner as Example 11 except that the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 250 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 17 were produced in the same manner as Example 11 except that the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 350 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Reference Example 11 were produced in the same manner as Example 11 except that the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 30 m.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Reference Example 12 were produced in the same manner as Example 11 except that the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 400 m.

The transmittance value of the light transmitting portion in the first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B was measured by a spectrophotometer to evaluate the transparency of the first transparent substrate A.

A finger was moved in a predetermined direction on each touch panel to obtain a detection waveform. The detection sensitivity was evaluated based on the detection waveform. The touch panel was evaluated as Excellent when the detection sensitivity was more than 110 of a predetermined threshold value as Good when it was 90 or more and 110 or less of the threshold value or as Fair when it was less than 90 of the threshold value.

As shown in Table 4 though the conductive sheet stack of Reference Example 11 had a good visibility it had low detection sensitivity. It was likely that because the first transparent substrate A had a small thickness of 30 m a large parasitic capacitance was formed between the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B and the detection sensitivity was deteriorated due to the parasitic capacitance. The conductive sheet stack of Reference Example 12 was poor in both of the detection sensitivity and the visibility. It was likely that because the first transparent substrate A had a remarkably large thickness of 400 m the finger touch position was hardly detected by the second conductive patterns B in the self capacitance technology and signals from the drive electrodes were hardly received by the receiving electrodes in the mutual capacitance technology. The visibility was deteriorated because the first transparent substrate A had a remarkably large thickness of 400 m whereby the light transmitting portions had a low transmittance of 80 to lower the transparency.

In contrast the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 11 to 17 had high detection sensitivities and high visibilities. Particularly the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 13 to 15 had excellent detection sensitivities.

Therefore it is clear that the thickness of the transparent substrate the first transparent substrate A disposed between the first conductive part A and the second conductive part B is preferably 50 m or more and 350 m or less further preferably 80 m or more and 250 m or less particularly preferably 100 m or more and 200 m or less.

In Third Example in the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 21 to 28 and Reference Examples 21 and 22 the ratio A2 A1 of the occupation area A2 of the second conductive patterns B to the occupation area A1 of the first conductive patterns A was changed to evaluate the surface resistance of the first conductive pattern A the surface resistance of the second conductive pattern B and the detection sensitivity. The properties and evaluation results of Examples 21 to 28 and Reference Examples 21 and 22 are shown in Table 5.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 21 were produced in the same manner as Example 1 except that in the conductive parts including the first conductive patterns A and the second conductive patterns B the side length of the first lattice was 80 m i.e. the side length of the second lattice was 160 m the line width of the thin metal wire was 5 m the thickness of the first transparent substrate A was 150 m and the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 2.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 22 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 3.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 23 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 5.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 24 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 7.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 25 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 8.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 26 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 10.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 27 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 15.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Example 28 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 20.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Reference Example 21 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 1.

The first conductive sheet A and the second conductive sheet B of Reference Example 22 were produced in the same manner as Example 21 except that the occupation area ratio A2 A1 was 25.

As shown in Table 5 the conductive sheet stacks of Reference Examples 21 and 22 had low detection sensitivities. In Reference Example 21 the second conductive patterns B had a high surface resistance of 75 ohm sq and it was likely that the second conductive patterns B could not reduce the noise impact of the electromagnetic wave. In Reference Example 22 though the second conductive patterns B had a significantly low surface resistance the first conductive patterns A had a high surface resistance of 150 ohm sq. It was likely that the detection sensitivity of the receiving electrodes was deteriorated due to the high surface resistance.

In contrast the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 21 to 28 had high detection sensitivities. Particularly the conductive sheet stacks of Examples 23 to 25 had excellent detection sensitivities.

Therefore it is clear that the ratio of the occupation area A2 of the second conductive patterns B to the occupation area A1 of the first conductive patterns A preferably satisfies 1

The occupation area ratio can be easily controlled by appropriately changing the lengths La to Lg and L1 and L2 within the above described ranges.

It is to be understood that the conductive sheet and the touch panel of the present invention are not limited to the above embodiments and various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the scope of the present invention.

