---

title: Systems and methods for effective identification of geo-location in mobile HetNet environments
abstract: This disclosure relates generally to location services, and more particularly to systems and methods for effective identification of geo-location in mobile HetNet environments. In one embodiment, a device geo-location method is disclosed, comprising: receiving one or more wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of a user device to one or more wireless access points; calculating, via a processor, one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points using the one or more wireless signal strengths; triangulating a user device location coordinate using: a pre-determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with at least one of the one or more wireless access points; and the calculated one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points; and storing the user device location coordinate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344846&OS=09344846&RS=09344846
owner: WIPRO LIMITED
number: 09344846
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20130823
---
This U.S. patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to India Application No. 3019 CHE 2013 filed Jul. 5 2013. The aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to location services and more particularly to systems and methods for effective identification of geo location in mobile HetNet environments.

Heterogeneous networking HetNet in the mobile context usually refers to the capability to provide a service for a mobile device as it switches from one network to another e.g. from a cellular network to a wireless local area network. The 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP protocol facilitates geo locating cellular phones connected to a cellular telecommunications network. Cellular operators however increasingly prefer offloading cellular traffic on to Wi Fi networks. Global positioning systems GPS provide another mechanism for determining geo location of devices such as a smartphone or tablet computer. Only a limited number of devices however support GPS. Also GPS systems require line of sight signals from GPS satellites which may not be available indoors. Some devices may be capable of connecting to both cellular networks as well as other networks such as Wi Fi networks. Device geo location may be useful during emergencies involving a user of the device such as fire medical security or other emergencies. Device geo location may also be useful for regulatory compliance or law enforcement purposes. Some devices execute applications that may require device geo location to provide features or e.g. web based services for the user of the device.

In one embodiment a wireless access point geo location method is disclosed comprising receiving one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications associated with one or more user devices receiving at least three user device location coordinates associated with the one or more user devices and wireless signal strengths associated with the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications calculating via a processor user device distances using the at least three wireless signal strengths triangulating via the processor a wireless access point location coordinate using the at least three user device location coordinates and the calculated user device distances and storing the wireless access point location coordinate.

In one embodiment a wireless access point geo location system is disclosed comprising a processor and a memory device disposed in communication with the processor and storing processor executable instructions the instructions comprising instructions for receiving one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications associated with one or more user devices receiving at least three user device location coordinates associated with the one or more user devices and wireless signal strengths associated with the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications calculating via a processor user device distances using the at least three wireless signal strengths triangulating via the processor a wireless access point location coordinate using the at least three user device location coordinates and the calculated user device distances and storing the wireless access point location coordinate.

In one embodiment a non transitory processor readable medium is disclosed storing processor executable wireless access point geo location instructions comprising instructions for receiving one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications associated with one or more user devices receiving at least three user device location coordinates associated with the one or more user devices and wireless signal strengths associated with the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications calculating via a processor user device distances using the at least three wireless signal strengths triangulating via the processor a wireless access point location coordinate using the at least three user device location coordinates and the calculated user device distances and storing the wireless access point location coordinate.

In one embodiment a device geo location method is disclosed comprising receiving one or more wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of a user device to one or more wireless access points calculating via a processor one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points using the one or more wireless signal strengths triangulating a user device location coordinate using a pre determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with at least one of the one or more wireless access points and the calculated one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points and storing the user device location coordinate.

In one embodiment a device geo location system is disclosed comprising a processor and a memory device disposed in communication with the processor and storing processor executable instructions the instructions comprising instructions for receiving one or more wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of a user device to one or more wireless access points calculating via a processor one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points using the one or more wireless signal strengths triangulating a user device location coordinate using a pre determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with at least one of the one or more wireless access points and the calculated one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points and storing the user device location coordinate.

In one embodiment a non transitory processor readable medium is disclosed storing processor executable device geo location instructions comprising instructions for receiving one or more wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of a user device to one or more wireless access points calculating via a processor one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points using the one or more wireless signal strengths triangulating a user device location coordinate using a pre determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with at least one of the one or more wireless access points and the calculated one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points and storing the user device location coordinate.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

In some embodiments a user device e.g may utilize geo location identification services for a variety of purposes of which three examples are provided below. With reference to in some embodiments a user device may require a location based service e.g. provided by a web based application server. Examples of such services include mapping services locating nearby services e.g. restaurants shops etc. or the like. The user device may provide a service request for a service provider e.g. LBS server . The user device may send the service request to the wireless access point with which it has connectivity and the wireless access point may forward the service request to the LBS server . To process the service request the LBS server may provide a geo location request to the wireless access point and or for the user device . The user device and or wireless access point may determine one or more location coordinates e.g. of the user device of the wireless access point etc. to provide for the LBS server . In some implementations a wireless location system e.g. that may be separate or integrated with the user device or the wireless access point may perform or assist in the performance of the determination of location coordinate s for the user device and or the wireless access point . The wireless access point and or wireless location system may provide the determined location coordinate s for the LBS server . Using the geo location of the user device and or the wireless access point the LBS server may provide the requested location based service.

With reference to in some embodiments a user device may make an emergency call e.g. in case of a medical emergency fire emergency etc. For example the user device may initiate a voice over IP VoIP call via a wireless access point with which it has connectivity and the wireless access point may forward VoIP call data packets to a 911 operator service . The wireless access point may forward VoIP packets to and from the user device and to and from an emergency operator service e.g. a 911 operator service . In some embodiments the 911 operator service may be implemented as a phone a server system a computer or the like. In response to an emergency call e.g. a VoIP call the 911 operator service may provide a geo location request for the wireless access point and or for the user device . The user device and or wireless access point may determine one or more location coordinates e.g. of the user device of the wireless access point etc. to provide for the LBS server . In some implementations a wireless location system e.g. that may be separate or integrated with the user device or the wireless access point may perform or assist in the performance of the determination of location coordinate s for the user device and or the wireless access point . The wireless access point and or wireless location system may provide the determined location coordinate s for the 911 operator service . Using the geo location of the user device and or the wireless access point the 911 operator service may be able to facilitate fast targeted efficient and responsive emergency service.

With reference to in some embodiments a user device may make a service request e.g. a checkout request at a store an account access request at a bank a data access request at a secure data repository or the like. For example the user device may require to initiate a response to a service request initiated by a LEA Law Enforcement Agency application via a wireless access point with which it has connectivity and the wireless access point may forward the service request to a compliance server . In some embodiments the compliance server may perform one or more checks for compliance with security protocols local system rules legal regulations laws or ordinances or the like. To process the service request the compliance server may provide a geo location request for the wireless access point and or for the user device . The user device and or wireless access point may determine one or more location coordinates e.g. of the user device of the wireless access point etc. to provide for the compliance server . In some implementations a wireless location system e.g. that may be separate or integrated with the user device or the wireless access point may perform or assist in the performance of the determination of location coordinate s for the user device and or the wireless access point . The wireless access point and or wireless location system may provide the determined location coordinate s for the compliance server . Using the geo location of the user device and or the wireless access point the compliance server may be able to e.g. authenticate the user ensure compliance with applicable security protocols local system rules legal regulations laws or ordinances etc. and facilitate processing the service request

In some embodiments a user device e.g. may have connectivity with the wireless access point . In the non limiting example illustrated in the wireless access point may exist at a location coordinates X0 Y0 that may not yet have been determined or that may need updating because some threshold amount of time has elapsed since the last time the location coordinates X0 Y0 were determined. Device may exist at a position X1 Y1 and may exist at a device distance D1 from the wireless access point . According to the device distance D1 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W1 at the device . For example the wireless access point may be broadcasting a wireless network with a particular SSID and the strength of that wireless network at a distance D1 from the wireless access point e.g. at the device may be W1. The wireless signal strength W1 may be for example measured in Watts Volts dBm dB or like units. Similarly device may exist at a position X2 Y2 and may exist at a device distance D2 from the wireless access point . According to the device distance D2 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W2 at the device . Also device may exist at a position X3 Y3 and may exist at a device distance D3 from the wireless access point . According to the device distance D3 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W3 at the device . In some embodiments devices may all refer to the same device but located at three different positions location coordinates X1 Y1 X2 Y2 and X3 Y3 at three different instances of time. In the example of each location is defined in terms of two dimensional Cartesian coordinates X and Y . However it is to be understood that any spatial location coordinate system may be used with dimensionality ranging from a single dimension e.g. X etc. to three dimensions e.g. X Y Z R etc. .

As discussed above the wireless signal strengths W1 W2 and W3 may vary according to the device distances D1 D1 and D3 among other factors. illustrates an example graph depicting the dependence that a wireless signal strength W measured in this example in dBm may have on device distance D measured in this example in m assuming that other factors are held constant when obtaining the data points to generate the graph of . For example the relationship between wireless signal strength and device distance may be described using the Friis transmission equation 

In equation 1 Pis the power available at a receiving antenna e.g. at a user device in dBm Pis the power output by a transmitting antenna e.g. at a wireless access point in dBm Gand Gare antenna gains of the transmitting and receiving antenna respectively in dB is the wavelength of the wireless transmission in meters and R is the distance between the antennas in meters.

In the example of D1W2. Measuring the wireless signal strength W at a user device and using the measured wireless signal strength as a lookup variable in to the graph of can determine the device distance D. In this example the wireless access point has been assumed to provide isotropic performance. In alternative embodiments however the yaw and tilt angles with respect to the horizontal earth may have an effect on the wireless signal strength. In such embodiments more detailed data gathering may be required to determine a device distance from the wireless signal strength yaw angle and pitch angle. In general it is to be understood that the disclosure contemplates that any number of variables other than device distance may affect the wireless signal strength measured at a user device and the effect of those variables may be considered in ensuring that a device distance can be accurately determined by measuring the wireless signal strength and those variables. For example variables such as roll pitch and yaw angles of the user device and or the wireless access point may be measured using accelerometers gyroscopes magnetometers etc. included in the user device and or the wireless access point.

With reference to the location coordinates of a wireless access point according to represented as P123 X0 Y0 in can be determined from measuring wireless signal strengths W1 W2 and W3 at the three user device locations X1 Y1 X2 Y2 and X3 Y3 . The device distances D1 D2 and D3 can be determined from the wireless signal strength. Thus depicts the geometrical configuration in two dimensions Cartesian coordinates corresponding to the device configuration of . A triangulation method corresponding to this configuration is explained below. To determine the wireless access point location coordinates X0 Y0 it can be first recognized that the point P123 X0 Y0 lies at the intersection of all three circles C1 C2 and C3 defined respectively by the locations X1 Y1 X2 Y2 and X3 Y3 of the user devices and their corresponding device distances D1 D2 and D3 from the wireless access point . Thus 01 01 02 02 03 03 2 

A triangulation method may proceed as follows. For any of the two circles e.g. C1 and C2 they must intersect at two points P12 and P123. One of these two points will correspond to the actual location of the wireless access point . The location coordinates of the points P12 and P123 can be determined by solving the following set of equations for X and Y 1 1 2 2 3 

Once the location coordinates for P12 and P123 are determined one must be eliminated. In theory the location coordinates for P12 will not satisfy the equation below whereas the location coordinates for P123 will 3 3 4 

By plugging in the location coordinates for P12 and P123 and X and Y in equation 3 above and determining whether the equation 3 is satisfied the point P12 can be eliminated from consideration leaving behind only the location coordinates for P123 as X0 Y0 the location coordinates of the wireless access point .

It is to be understood that the triangulation method above is exemplary only and non limiting the triangulation method utilized may vary according to the number of devices dimensionality of coordinate system and type of coordinate system. In general any triangulation method known to one of ordinary skill in the art is contemplated by this disclosure.

It is also to be understood that although the examples above describe the location coordinates in terms of a location configuration information LCI format including variables like latitude longitude and or altitude information the wireless access point location coordinates may be stored in any other format including for example a civic format which may include without limitation door number street address suite number city state country zip code etc. For example after the triangulation process the X0 Y0 location coordinates may be converted into the civic format by using the location coordinates X0 Y0 as lookup variables into a database to retrieve the corresponding location in a civic format. If the location coordinates X0 Y0 in civic format are later requested for triangulating the location coordinates of another device a reverse lookup may be performed whereby location coordinates in LCI format may be retrieved corresponding to the location in civic format. In general it is to be understood that conversion to and from any location format may be performed at any stage in any processes disclosed herein.

If at least one wireless connectivity notification is obtained see option Yes the connected user device s may be identified . User device location coordinate s corresponding to the identified user device s may be obtained e.g. from the user device s . For example the user device s may have obtained or determined the user device location coordinate s using the 3GPP protocol in case the user device is a cellular device Global Positioning System GPS or the like. For example for a user device that is capable of using the 3GPP long term evolution LTE standard for wireless communication the user device may obtain its user device location coordinate s using a mobility management entity MME and an electronic serving mobile location center eSMLC through its cellular connection over the LTE interface. Also wireless signal strengths associated with the connectivity of each of the user devices may be obtained e.g. from the user device s . Using the wireless signal strengths and any other data that may be needed the user device distance s of the user device s from the wireless access point may be calculated e.g. using a graph look up table or formula representative of a relationship such as in . In some embodiments if for example the geo location is being updated it may be that only a single new data point e.g. only one pair of wireless signal strengths and associated user device location coordinates is needed to perform the update and that new data point may be used with previously obtained data points to perform triangulation of the wireless access point location coordinates. In alternate embodiments up to three new data points may be obtained. In further embodiments data points obtained may be screened or rejected if the values of the wireless signal strengths and or user device location coordinates are similar to previously obtained values e.g. by determining whether the difference in value is less than a pre determined threshold . Accordingly in some embodiments more than three new data points may be obtained. If an insufficient number of data points have been collected thus far see option No the steps may be repeated until a sufficient number of data points have been collected. Accordingly a table of data points may be generated similar to the example Table I provided below 

Once a sufficient number of new data points have been collected see option Yes triangulation of wireless access point location coordinate s may be performed using the new data points and or previously obtained data points . As an example the method described above in relation to may be used for triangulation. The triangulated wireless access point location coordinate s may be stored for example according to an Access Network Query Protocol ANQP for WiFi Hotspot 2.0 based on the IEEE 802.11u standard. The triangulated wireless access point location coordinate s may be stored at the wireless access point or one of the user device s or a wireless location system or at a service provider e.g. at a server or another system component. In some embodiments a location based service emergency service operator compliance manager etc. may request the triangulated wireless access point location coordinate s . To process the request the triangulated wireless access point location coordinate s may be provided e.g. over the wireless network connecting the wireless access point and the requesting device .

In some embodiments the user device may exist at a location coordinates X0 Y0 that may not yet have been determined or that may need updating because some threshold amount of time has elapsed since the last time the location coordinates X0 Y0 were determined. Wireless access point may exist at a position X1 Y1 and may exist at a device distance D1 from the device . According to the device distance D1 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W1 at the device . For example the wireless access point may be broadcasting a wireless network with a particular SSID and the strength of that wireless network at a distance D1 from the wireless access point e.g. at the device may be W1. The wireless signal strength W1 may be for example measured in Watts Volts dBm dB or like units. Similarly wireless access point may exist at a position X2 Y2 and may exist at a device distance D2 from the device . According to the device distance D2 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W2 at the device . Also wireless access point may exist at a position X3 Y3 and may exist at a device distance D3 from the device . According to the device distance D3 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W3 at the device . In some embodiments wireless access points may all refer to the same wireless access point e.g. a mobile wireless access point but located at three different positions location coordinates X1 Y1 X2 Y2 and X3 Y3 at three different instances of time. In the example of each location is defined in terms of two dimensional Cartesian coordinates X and Y . However it is to be understood that any spatial location coordinate system may be used with dimensionality ranging from a single dimension e.g. X etc. to three dimensions e.g. X Y Z R etc. .

With reference to in some embodiments fewer than three wireless access points may be available for determining the user device location coordinate s for a user device. For example with reference to a only two wireless access points may be available. Wireless access point may exist at a position X1 Y1 and may exist at a device distance D1 from the device . According to the device distance D1 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W1 at the device . Wireless access point may exist at a position X2 Y2 and may exist at a device distance D2 from the device . According to the device distance D2 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W2 at the device . Following the example triangulation method as described in the discussion above with reference to the location coordinate s for the user device can be narrowed down to one of two points X0 Y0 and X0 Y0 which are the points of intersection of circles C1 and C2 defined by using the location coordinates X1 Y1 and X2 Y2 as centers of the circles C1 and C2 respectively and device distances D1 and D2 as radii of the circles C1 and C2 respectively. In case a request for the location of the device is obtained one or both of the location coordinates X0 Y0 and X0 Y0 may be provided and or the location coordinates X1 Y1 and X2 Y2 of the wireless access points may be provided. In some embodiments the center of the line connecting the points X0 Y0 and X0 Y0 may be provided with an uncertainty indicator as half the distance between the two points.

With reference to b only one wireless access point may be available. Wireless access point may exist at a position X1 Y1 and may exist at a device distance D1 from the device . According to the device distance D1 among other factors a wireless network facilitated by the wireless access point may have wireless signal strength W1 at the device . In such an embodiment the location coordinate s X0 Y0 for the user device can be narrowed down to any point lying on the circumference of a circle C1 defined by using the location coordinates X1 Y1 as the center of the circles C1 and device distance D1 as radius of the circles C1. In case a request for the location of the device is obtained one or both of the location coordinates X0 Y0 and X1 Y1 may be provided. In some embodiments D1 may be provided as an uncertainty indicator e.g. the uncertainty in position may be D1 .

It is to be understood that although the examples above describe the location coordinates in terms of a location configuration information LCI format including variables like latitude longitude and or altitude information the wireless access point location coordinates may be stored in any other format including for example a civic format which may include without limitation door number street address suite number city state country zip code etc. For example after the triangulation process the X0 Y0 location coordinates may be converted into the civic format by using the location coordinates X0 Y0 as lookup variables into a database to retrieve the corresponding location in a civic format.

If at least one wireless connectivity notification is obtained see option Yes the connected wireless access point s may be identified . Wireless access point location coordinate s corresponding to the identified wireless access point s may be obtained e.g. from the wireless access point s . For example the wireless access point s may have previously determined the wireless access point location coordinate s using the methods described above in relation to or obtained them from a system component that performed such methods. Also wireless signal strengths associated with the connectivity of each of the wireless access points may be obtained e.g. from the user device. Using the wireless signal strengths and any other data that may be needed the user device distance s from the wireless access point s may be calculated e.g. using a graph look up table or formula representative of a relationship such as in . In some embodiments if for example the geo location is being updated it may be that only a single new data point e.g. only one pair of wireless signal strengths and associated wireless access point location coordinates is needed to perform the update and that new data point may be used with previously obtained data points to perform triangulation of the device location coordinates. In alternate embodiments up to three new data points may be obtained. In further embodiments data points obtained may be screened or rejected if the values of the wireless signal strengths and or wireless access point location coordinates are similar to previously obtained values e.g. by determining whether the difference in value is less than a pre determined threshold . Accordingly in some embodiments more than three new data points may be obtained. If an insufficient number of data points have been collected thus far see option No the steps may be repeated until a sufficient number of data points have been collected. Accordingly a table of data points may be generated similar to the example Table II provided below 

Once a sufficient number of new data points have been collected see option Yes triangulation of user device location coordinate s may be performed using the new data points and or previously obtained data points . As an example the methods described above in relation to B may be used for triangulation. The triangulated user device location coordinate s may be stored for example according to an Access Network Query Protocol ANQP for WiFi Hotspot 2.0 based on the IEEE 802.11u standard. The triangulated user device location coordinate s may stored at one of the wireless access point s or the user device or a wireless location system or at a service provider e.g. at a server or another system component. In some embodiments a location based service emergency service operator compliance manager etc. may request the triangulated user device location coordinate s . To process the request the triangulated user device location coordinate s may be provided e.g. over the wireless network connecting one of the wireless access point s and the requesting device .

Illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure are listed below. In one embodiment a wireless access point geo location method is disclosed comprising receiving one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications associated with one or more user devices receiving at least three user device location coordinates associated with the one or more user devices and wireless signal strengths associated with the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications calculating via a processor user device distances using the at least three wireless signal strengths triangulating via the processor a wireless access point location coordinate using the at least three user device location coordinates and the calculated user device distances and storing the wireless access point location coordinate. In one aspect at least one of the one or more user devices includes a cellular phone. In another aspect at least one of the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications is associated with a Wi Fi network. In another aspect all of the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications are associated with a single wireless network. In another aspect at least one of the one or more user devices is connected simultaneously to a cellular network and a wireless access point associated with at least one of the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications. In another aspect the calculation of the at least one of the user device distances is performed before receiving at least one of one of the user device location coordinates and one of the wireless signal strengths. In another aspect triangulating the wireless access point location coordinate is performed substantially in real time after receiving the user device location coordinates and the wireless signal strengths.

In another aspect the method further comprises receiving one or more updated user device location coordinates and one or more updated wireless signal strengths calculating via the processor one or more updated user device distances using the one or more updated wireless signal strengths triangulating via the processor an updated wireless access point location coordinate using the one or more updated user device location coordinates and the one or more updated user device distances and storing the updated wireless access point location coordinate. In such embodiments in one aspect the one or more updated user device location coordinates and the one or more updated wireless signal strengths are associated with one of the one or more user devices.

In another aspect a wireless access point performs the calculation of the user device distances as well as the triangulation of the wireless access point location coordinate. In another aspect at least one of the user device location coordinates is determined using a cellular network. In another aspect at least one of the user device location coordinates is a GPS coordinate.

In one embodiment a wireless access point geo location system is disclosed comprising a processor and a memory device disposed in communication with the processor and storing processor executable instructions the instructions comprising instructions for receiving one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications associated with one or more user devices receiving at least three user device location coordinates associated with the one or more user devices and wireless signal strengths associated with the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications calculating via a processor user device distances using the at least three wireless signal strengths triangulating via the processor a wireless access point location coordinate using the at least three user device location coordinates and the calculated user device distances and storing the wireless access point location coordinate.

In one embodiment a non transitory processor readable medium is disclosed storing processor executable wireless access point geo location instructions comprising instructions for receiving one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications associated with one or more user devices receiving at least three user device location coordinates associated with the one or more user devices and wireless signal strengths associated with the one or more wireless access point connectivity notifications calculating via a processor user device distances using the at least three wireless signal strengths triangulating via the processor a wireless access point location coordinate using the at least three user device location coordinates and the calculated user device distances and storing the wireless access point location coordinate.

In one embodiment a device geo location method is disclosed comprising receiving one or more wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of a user device to one or more wireless access points calculating via a processor one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points using the one or more wireless signal strengths triangulating a user device location coordinate using a pre determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with at least one of the one or more wireless access points and the calculated one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points and storing the user device location coordinate. In one aspect the method further comprises receiving a geo location request for the user device and providing the user device location coordinate after receiving the geo location request. In another aspect the geo location request is received after the user device provides a service request. In another aspect the service request is a voice over IP emergency call. In another aspect the user device is one of a cellular phone a smartphone a tablet computer and a laptop computer. In another aspect the connectivity of the user device to at least one of the one or more wireless access points is via a Wi Fi network. In another aspect the user device is connected simultaneously to the one or more wireless access points. In another aspect the calculation of at least one of the one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points is performed before receiving at least one of the one or more wireless signal strengths. In another aspect a number of wireless access points is three and triangulating the user device location coordinate is performed substantially in real time after receipt of three wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of the user device to the three wireless access points.

In another aspect the method further comprises on a periodic basis receiving one or more updated wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of the user device to the one or more wireless access points calculating via a processor one or more updated distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points using the one or more updated wireless signal strengths triangulating an updated user device location coordinate using the pre determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with the at least one of the one or more wireless access points and the calculated one or more updated distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points and storing the updated user device location coordinate. In another aspect the pre determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with the at least one of the one or more wireless access points is determined by triangulation using one or more prior user device location coordinates and one or more prior wireless signal strengths. In another aspect the user device provides the user device location coordinate after the geo location request is received.

In one embodiment a device geo location system is disclosed comprising a processor and a memory device disposed in communication with the processor and storing processor executable instructions the instructions comprising instructions for receiving one or more wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of a user device to one or more wireless access points calculating via a processor one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points using the one or more wireless signal strengths triangulating a user device location coordinate using a pre determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with at least one of the one or more wireless access points and the calculated one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points and storing the user device location coordinate.

In one embodiment a non transitory processor readable medium is disclosed storing processor executable device geo location instructions comprising instructions for receiving one or more wireless signal strengths associated with connectivity of a user device to one or more wireless access points calculating via a processor one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points using the one or more wireless signal strengths triangulating a user device location coordinate using a pre determined wireless access point location coordinate associated with at least one of the one or more wireless access points and the calculated one or more distances of the user device from the one or more wireless access points and storing the user device location coordinate.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices. Any of these devices may serve as the user devices wireless access points wireless location systems servers or other system components utilized in the present disclosure.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. e.g. user ID device ID MAC address IP address network address historical wireless access point user device location coordinates wireless signal strengths signal strength to distance conversion formulas look up tables wireless access point ID wireless SSID cellular network ID cellular provider name GPS coordinates records LBS requests LBS server URLs current wireless access point location coordinates current user device location coordinates application usage records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described systems and methods for effective identification of geo location in mobile HetNet environments. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

