---

title: Method and apparatus for selective sharing of semantic information sets
abstract: An approach is provided for selective sharing of semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms, devices, and equipment. A personal smart space application creates a personal information space for a user, wherein the personal information space includes a plurality of semantic information sets. Thereafter, the personal smart space application receives a request for selective sharing of the semantic information sets, and merges, in response to the request, a projection of the selected semantic information sets into a shared information space.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613065&OS=09613065&RS=09613065
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09613065
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20131031
---
This application is a continuation of prior application Ser. No. 12 555 584 filed Sep. 8 2009 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Social networking is attracting growing numbers of Internet users and becoming the predominant service provided over the Internet. At the same time the number of new users connected to Internet through mobile devices is growing faster than the number of users connected through personal computers. This creates a strong demand for a social networking solution that is equally operable from personal computers and from mobile devices. One area of development involves emerging smart space technologies. These technologies for instance are truly mobile by nature and enable equally efficient applications for personal computers and mobile devices. A smart space platform also enables flexible and efficient tools for user account and access management. However the introduction of smart space technologies has been slow with respect to social networking services.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for providing a personal smart space platform to enable a user to freely integrate social network information with other information stored in the devices e.g. mobile devices and or personal computers of the user while maintaining all personal data under full control of the user.

According to one embodiment a method comprises creating a personal information space for a user wherein the personal information space includes a plurality of semantic information sets. The method also comprises receiving a request for selective sharing of the semantic information sets. The method further comprises merging in response to the request a projection of the selected semantic information sets into a shared information space.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to create a personal information space for a user wherein the personal information space includes a plurality of semantic information sets. The apparatus is also caused to receive a request for selective sharing of the semantic information sets. The apparatus is further caused to merge in response to the request a projection of the selected semantic information sets into a shared information space.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause an apparatus to create a personal information space for a user wherein the personal information space includes a plurality of semantic information sets. The apparatus is also caused to receive a request for selective sharing of the semantic information sets. The apparatus is further caused to merge in response to the request a projection of the selected semantic information sets into a shared information space.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for creating a personal information space for a user wherein the personal information space includes a plurality of semantic information sets. The apparatus also comprises means for receiving a request for selective sharing of the semantic information sets. The apparatus further comprises means for merging in response to the request a projection of the selected semantic information sets into a shared information space.

According to another embodiment a method comprises generating a request specifying selective sharing of semantic information sets corresponding to a personal information space. The method also comprises initiating transmission of the request to a peer user equipment for merging a projection of the semantic information sets into a shared information space.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause the apparatus to generate a request specifying selective sharing of semantic information sets corresponding to a personal information space. The apparatus is also caused to initiate transmission of the request to a peer user equipment for merging a projection of the semantic information sets into a shared information space.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause an apparatus to generate a request specifying selective sharing of semantic information sets corresponding to a personal information space. The apparatus is also caused to initiate transmission of the request to a peer user equipment for merging a projection of the semantic information sets into a shared information space.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for generating a request specifying selective sharing of semantic information sets corresponding to a personal information space. The apparatus also comprises means for initiating transmission of the request to a peer user equipment for merging a projection of the semantic information sets into a shared information space.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A method and apparatus for selective sharing of semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to sharing semantic information sets between social networks communication platforms personal computers and mobile devices it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other web services.

A key problem is an inefficient User Interface UI for the mobile device which is usually a scaled down version of a personal computer UI i.e. eliminating some functions . For example the scaled down UI generally does not support personal preferences and imposes restrictions on use. As a result most social networking users rarely use the mobile version of the corresponding social networking application and or use it only when they have no other alternatives. Accordingly there is a need to enable the user to easily build a personalized social networking client UI out of the provided library of blocks and make completely new blocks including blocks with inherited functionality.

A deeper problem is rooted in the architectural principles of existing social network platforms and the semantic web. Generally the existing social network platforms were designed to support personal computers and follow client server principles. This results in disadvantages of a monolithic architecture of the social network application client platform dependency lack of flexibility in selecting data repository and complicated sometimes even prevention of joint use of information in cooperation with other services.

Another aspect of the problem is built in the semantic web. The semantic web is a universal medium for data information and knowledge exchange. This information exchange inserts documents with computer comprehensible meaning semantics and makes them available on the semantic web. Knowledge in the semantic web is structured and organized at a finer level of granularity than free text document and the vocabulary includes not only literal words but also universal identifiers. The semantic web is designed to share information based upon common representation formats ontologies and semantics such that information would become globally ubiquitous and interoperable. However much of the information is not desired to ubiquitous but remain hidden private and is interpreted locally such as personal information. When two personal smart spaces partially merge a node object may connect to both smart spaces at a time.

Today users share a lot of personal information via social networks. However many users are concerned about the privacy of the shared personal information because the information is often controlled by the social network host instead of the users. As a result of these concerns these users may limit their activities in social networks. To address to this issue a smart space architecture an entity focused structure is developed such that a user can encapsulate all of personal information and interact with the information in the smart space according to the user s individual semantics and needs. The user can be a person an organization or other entity.

To address these problems a system of introduces the capability to further growth of social network services by enabling equally efficient use from all type of devices and providing users with more control over sharing information posted to the social networks.

As shown in the system comprises a user equipment UE having connectivity to and communication platform and a social networking service platform via a communication network . Each of the platforms has a members and content database and the UE has a content and contacts database . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UEs and the platforms communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

For instance when implemented using NoTA information sharing via the smart space becomes transport independent and the smart space can utilize service discovery security and access policies of a particular resource manager RM and billboard BB of a NoTA network. The smart space allows cross domain search and provides a uniform use case independent service application programming interface API for sharing information. As an example the smart space allows an application programmer who programs for a mobile platform to access contextual information in e.g. a car home office football stadium etc. in a uniform way and to improve the user experience without compromising real time requirements of the embedded system. The smart space uses an ontology governance process as the alternative to use case specific service API standardization. The ontology governance process agrees and adopts new vocabularies using Resource Description Language format RDF and RDFS RDF schema . If RDFS is not sufficient for defining and instantiating the ontologies web ontology language OWL or the like can be used.

The smart space stores information in RDF for at least two reasons. First RDF provides the ability to join data from vocabularies from different business domains without having to negotiate structural differences between the vocabularies. Second the smart space can merge the information of the embedded domains with the information in web as well as make the vast reasoning and ontology theory practice and tools developed by the semantic web community available for smart space application developers. The smart space makes the heterogeneous information in embedded domains available for the semantic web tools. Each smart space can be constructed by physically distributed RDF stores. This allows implementations where the personal information of a family is stored at home while it is augmented by non personal information at a website e.g. a social networking website . For example an operator may prefer to augment rather than merge information because of for instance copyright and or privacy concerns.

Each SIB is an entity performing triple governance in possible co operation with other SIBs for one smart space . An SIB may be a concrete or virtual entity. Each SIB also supports the smart space node objects interacting with other SIBs through information transaction operations. By way of example a triple is a subject predicate object expression in RDF. The subject denotes the resource and the predicate denotes traits or aspects of the resource and expresses a relationship between the subject and the object. For example one way to represent the notion the manager went to Finland for a business negotiation in RDF as the triple is a subject denoting the manager a predicate denoting went to and an object denoting Finland for a business negotiation. RDF is an abstract model with several serialization formats i.e. file formats and so the particular way in which a resource or triple is encoded varies from format to format. The triple governance transactions using a smart space Access Protocol SSAP to e.g. join leave insert remove update query subscribe unsubscribe information e.g. in a unit of a triple . Physical distribution protocol of a smart space allows a formation of a smart space using multiple SIBs . With transactional operations a node object produces inserts and consumes queries information in the smart space . Because distributed SIBs can belong to the same smart space query and subscription operations relating to the SIBs can cover the whole information extent of the smart space . In this example a subscription is a special query that is used to trigger reactions to persistent queries for information.

In this embodiment the personal smart space application includes at least a control logic which executes at least one algorithm for executing functions of the personal smart space application a smart space creating module for creating a personal smart space for the user and a semantic information set selecting module for selecting semantic information sets to be shared with another user. The personal smart space application also includes a merging module for merging projections of the selected semantic information sets into a shared smart space and a semantic information sets database for storing semantic information sets. To avoid data transmission costs as well as save time and battery life the control logic can fetch data cached or stored in the database without requesting data from any servers or external platforms such as the communications platform or the social network service platforms . Usually if the UE is online data queries are made to online search server backends and once the device is off line searches are made to off line indexes stored locally.

Persons or groups of persons etc. can place share interact and manipulate webs of information with their own locally agreed semantics without necessarily conforming to a uniform or global semantics. In one embodiment smart spaces are projections of a global information space in which one can apply semantics and reasoning at a local level. The nature of projection is such that a tree of projected spaces can be formed thus avoiding circularity among the projected spaces and the global information space. In one embodiment the contents of a projected space can be returned to the global information space by injecting e.g. merging information of the projected space back into the global information space. The injection also induces a merger of information over any other projected spaces that depend from the global information space. In this way any changes within a projected space can be sent back to the global information space and propagated to other projected spaces . To facilitate the propagation of information among projected spaces and protect information security and integrity users or owners of the projected spaces can for instance agree to or reject an information merger through trust or authentication mechanisms and or through the shared semantics of the information.

Alternatively the functions of the personal smart space application can be implemented via the communications platform or the social network service platform

When two users decide to become friends in a social network they allow sharing of some part of their respective personal spaces and with the new peer. The shared social smart space of these two users is created by merging a part of their personal smart spaces as shown in .

Merging is a process of 1 identifying information sets to be shared e.g. the information set projected in SIB N of the personal smart space of a user 1 and the information set projected in SIB 1 of the personal smart space of a user 2 and 2 merging the SIB N and SIB 1 within the boundary of the shared smart space shown by dashed lined ovals . also shows a shared space made of the information set projected in SIB 2 of the personal smart space of a user 1 and the information set projected in SIB 1 of the personal smart space of a user K. Such boundaries are determined by the depth of the particular information set and rules applied during the transition period. When one user modifies a shared information item in the shared smart space the user can inject the modified information item back into the shared smart space and the relevant SIB tracks the history of modification. If later the users decide to discontinue the sharing a process of splitting i.e. a reverse process of merging is executed to dissolve the shared smart space . The splitting may consider the modification history of the shared smart space to recover the information items prior to the merger of the personal smart spaces to form the shared smart space . During any of the processes of either splitting or merging the most important part is to identify and to guarantee sustained boundaries of the process.

Within the smart space the shared smart space is created as a merger of projections of the information sets that the users have decided to share with a given peer. The processes and enable the user to differentiate information sets shared with different friends as much as desired without restrictions by the rules of the social networking platform . The user is free to share personal data with personal friends work related materials with colleagues and the sets of shared information can be completely isolated from each other or partially or fully overlap. Also the social shared space can be expanded to as many users as desired to create a group social shared smart space. In addition a peer to peer social shared space of a sub group within the group can enter into a group social shared space by its entirety and preserve its autonomy and integrity.

By way of example the personal smart space application defines a set of basic definitions of the social networking client application . Each of the personal smart space applications further set KPs that customize functionality to be displayed on their respective UI . The visible KPs are illustrated in e.g. KPs that implement a Calendar Reminder function and a BBC News RSS function are displayed in a UI e.g. of the manager and a List of friends on line function and a switch to another active chat function are displayed in a UI e.g. of the secretary . Other KPs are invisible on the UIs but still perform functions with the collected data. For example the user can install a KP that performs reasoning over information extracted from a Short Message Service SMS and a chat engine of the social network to determine define what social events in the town might be of a mutual interest for the user and the peer. In another example the user can install another KP that determines all user preferences including the peer s preferences especially those that have not been explicitly specified but obtained from reasoning of the peer s behaviors using all devices and applications connected to the smart space and then delivers a message including all or part of the user preferences to the peer.

In a sample use case the personal smart space application and the social network client application are applied to establish a professional social network for supporting cooperation in joint projects. The existing solutions to facilitate joint work in multi site project do not support interoperable social network sharing services across platforms devices and equipment. Existing solutions like Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and shared data repositories social networks like LinkedIn and Facebook do not create an interoperable framework for sharing information and it takes significant work to for the users to bridge these solutions and some automated solutions to provide the same professional social network. The applications and make the shared information sets accessible from personal computers and mobile devices and the activity status follows user s migration between the devices. In addition additional services such as short voice messages shared touch screen whiteboard for participants of teleconference and so on are introduced via the appellations and . By introducing additional KPs the applications and link accounts and services from other social networks into the existing social network clients similar to the example illustrated in for BBC News RRS so that the user can use one application and smoothly move the user s social life in Internet to the smart space.

Since the shared smart spaces are created as a merger of projections of the information sets in SIBs that the users have decided to share with the given peer it is unnecessary to define separate data ontology for the social network as every user stays within the scope of the personal smart space ontology definitions.

As mentioned the social network client is defined as a smart space application and includes a number of knowledge processors that perform operations over information in the shared smart space and allows services via personal computers as well as from mobile devices. The personal smart space application defines a basic set of KPs for the sharing service. The personal smart space application also enables personalization of the social network client according to user preferences including the number and variety of the related KPs.

If the peer is not known to the user the KP searches over the smart space to find a personal smart space of the peer Step so as to create a new shared social smart space for the user and the peer. After finding the peer s personal smart space the KP asks questions to the user for generating a set of shared social smart space rules to set a shared social smart space Step creates a new shared social smart space for the user and the peer adds the new social sauce to a shared social smart space list of the user Step sets a SIB value for the new shared social smart space of the user and the peer Step and proceeds to the next peer. For example the information or questions to be answered for generating the set of shared social smart space rules includes the peer s user ID name e mail address the scope category content of the share semantic information sets etc.

The described social networking approach in certain embodiments is equally efficient for personal computers and all types of mobile devices while guaranteeing access to the same pool of data and preserving successive user experience. In addition the user has the flexibility to select services as desired for each client application and a toolkit for easy development of new personalized modules. The solution also maximizes UI efficiency and decreases use of all resources including energy and network traffic since its application does not contain redundant modules. On top of the smart space the social networking solution provides efficient reasoning over collected data and easy information exchange with other services available for the user at all user s devices. The solution further allows parallel integrated use of the social network and existing social networks.

The processes described herein for selective sharing of semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment may be advantageously implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to selectively share semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for selective sharing of semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for selective sharing of semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection from the UE to the communication network for selective sharing of semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to selectively share semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of selective sharing of semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment. The display unit includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display unit and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to selectively share semantic information sets in a smart space interoperable across platforms devices and equipment. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

