---

title: Rule based content modification and interaction platform
abstract: A rule input to generate a rule is received. The rule provides an action for an event. A content experience engine generates the rule for a set of content. The content experience engine receives an interaction input based upon the set of content from the content experience configuration. The content experience engine generates an enhanced set of content based upon the rule and the interaction input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183502&OS=09183502&RS=09183502
owner: Multipop LLC
number: 09183502
owner_city: Oak Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130513
---
This disclosure generally relates to the field of computing systems. More particularly the disclosure relates to content modification and interaction.

Current media systems are often limited in their ability to interact with and track audiences of the particular media. Producers provide content to audiences but generally are unable to track the particular reactions of those audience members to such content. As a result producers typically provide a content experience to audience members such that the content experience is often limited to the audience members watching and or listening to the content.

A system computer program product and method are provided. A rule input to generate a rule is received. The rule provides an action for an event. A content experience engine generates the rule for a set of content. The content experience engine receives an interaction input based upon the set of content from the content experience configuration. The content experience engine generates an enhanced set of content based upon the rule and the interaction input.

A method system apparatus and computer program product may be utilized to provide a rule based content modification and interaction system. The rule based content modification and interaction system is a centralized hub that may preload and run entire entertainment experiences including online content mobile content gaming content social media e commerce and or the like. A content management system may be customized to interact with the rule based content modification and interaction system. Accordingly the rule based content modification and interaction system may be utilized to generate rules and capture interactions to a set of content based upon those rules. Content that is otherwise passive may then be modified e.g. enhanced by the content modification and interaction system based upon the rules and the responses by audience members to the rules. Therefore the rule based content modification and interaction system provides choice interaction and or rewards to otherwise passive content.

Accordingly the rule based content modification and interaction system allows content generators e.g. content producers to generate socialize and monetize content across multiple platforms. Further the rule based content modification and interaction platform allows content generators to enhance their content so that the content is interactive with audience members. Such interaction allows for tracking of reactions of audience members to the content. Examples of content generators include but are not limited to content owners in film television publishing gaming branding or the like. Content generators may utilize the rule based content modification and interaction system to expand distributions channels interact with audiences and develop revenue from interactions between audience members and the content. As an example real world and virtual merchandise that is related to a particular entertainment experience may be sold through an e commerce component of the rule based content modification and interaction system.

The producer interacts with a content modification and interaction content modification and interaction hub . The content modification and interaction content modification and interaction hub includes a rule editor a content experience engine an event scheduler an Application Programming Interface API an inbound queue and outbound queue and a database . The content modification and interaction hub may maintain rules modify content in response to events triggered by the rules capture the interactions that an audience has with the content and aggregate the interactions analytics. The producer may then view the analytics. The analytics assist the producer in generating future rules determining incentives for players determining possible monetization configurations and or the like.

The rule editor allows the producer to establish a set of rules for generation enhancement aggregation and or distribution of content. The content may be video audio games webpages social media pages images text text messages and or the like. The set of rules are prepared by the producer to generate and or enhance content so that the content is interactive content i.e. content that allows for participation from the audience . The rules allow the audience to become active participants of the content to affect the outcome of the content rather than being passive participants.

A variety of types of rules may be utilized by the producer . As examples rules may be events or incentives. Event based rules are rules that provide certain types of actions based upon the occurrence of the event. Examples of events include but are not limited to brand conversion events brand referral events code entry events friend request events from a character in the content friend request events to a character in the content immersive video message from a character in the content message to a character in the content internal experience content external experience content player registration message event from a member of the audience message event to a member of the audience task event user generated content upload event voice input from a member of the audience and or the like. Examples of incentives included but are not limited to profile completion event completion friending forum participation regular login and audience member recruitment. For instance a player may earn an incentive for completing an event. The various rules may have various parameters. In one embodiment a rule may have a condition that has to be met for an action associated with the rule to be performed. A variety of other types of parameters may be utilized.

The incentive events provide incentives for the occurrence of particular events. Examples of the incentive events include but are not limited to profile completion event completion friending forum participation regular login and player recruitment.

The rule parameters may include a trigger a rule configuration that varies by rule type an incentive an activity feed a task list unlocking and classification. A trigger may be a triggering event a triggering point balance and a trigger delay time. Further a rule configuration may be a character message content failure content and a valid code or phrase. In addition incentives may include reward to grant points to grant repeatability allowed repeat limit repeat interval and limit to first player only. The activity feed may be included in a feed or may be a feed sentence template. The task list may be included in a task list or in a task sentence template. The unlocking includes pages to lock or unlock upon completion or content blocks to lock or unlock upon completion.

In one embodiment the rule editor provides a user interface through which the producer is able to provide inputs for generating rules. Further the rule editor has a plurality of event definitions. The event definitions may be provided by the producer or integrated within the rule editor without inputs from the producer . The rule editor processes the event definitions and provides a plurality of rules based upon the event definitions to a content experience engine . The content experience engine generates and or enhances content according to the plurality of rules e.g. events or incentives received from the rule editor and messages arriving through the inbound queue sent from an event monitor in the a content management system . Accordingly the producer generates rules that may be invoked based upon player interaction. The player interaction is then provided to the content experience engine so that the content experience engine may modify the content based upon the rules and the player interactions in response to those rules. As a result the content experience engine allows otherwise passive content to be modified e.g. enhanced based upon a particular content experience of a user. For instance a passive set of content may be gamified so that the content is enhanced with gaming aspects for a particular user. For instance the user may interact with the otherwise passive content in a game like fashion to accrue various rewards based upon completing certain events pertaining to interaction with the content. Other possible enhancements other than gaming aspects may be utilized.

In one embodiment the content experience engine then provides the rules to the event scheduler if an event is triggered by a rule that states that the execution of the rule should be delayed. The event scheduler performs timed event processing i.e. schedules the events to be sent to the content experience configuration . In other words the event scheduler schedules the order time etc. when the events are sent to the content experience configuration . The event scheduler then sends the events to an outbound queue . In another embodiment the event scheduler is not utilized if no delay is specified. In such an instance the content experience engine processes the rule immediately without utilizing the event scheduler .

The content modification and interaction content modification and interaction hub sends events from the outbound queue to an entertainment experience agent in the content experience configuration . The entertainment experience agent is a software module that acts on behalf of the characters in the entertainment experience. Accordingly the entertainment experience agent coordinates actions of the characters in the entertainment experience according to the events received from the outbound queue .

The content experience configuration also has a content management system that manages content for the content experience configuration . The content management system has player user interface widgets and a player monitor . The user interface widgets and the player monitor are customizations for the content managements system . The customizations allow for content to be organized around members of the audience rather than websites. In other words user interface widgets may be customized for particular members of the audience . Further the event monitor monitors the interactions of the particular members of the audience with respect to the content based upon the events received from the outbound queue . In one embodiment the entertainment experience agent provides the events to the event monitor . In another embodiment the content management system receives the events at the event monitor without the entertainment experience agent .

The event monitor monitors the interactions with the members of the audience . The event monitor may provide monitoring data to an inbound queue of the content modification and interaction content modification and interaction hub . The inbound queue may then provide the monitoring data to the content experience engine . The monitoring data may include data such as reactions by members of the audience to the events. For example the event monitor may monitor an audience member s selection of a character path in an immersive video. An event may provide the audience member with reward points for selection of that particular path. Accordingly the content experience engine can tabulate the reward points upon receiving data from the event monitor through the inbound queue that the particular path has been selected.

The content experience engine then stores the event monitoring data in a database . In one embodiment the entertainment engine performs various analytics on the data. For example the content experience engine can store advertising analytics based upon demographic data of members of the audience and interactions of the content modification and interaction content modification and interaction hub with the members of the audience . The database may store event definitions analytics a list of members of the audience and or the like.

The player user interface widgets may be customized through the content modification and interaction content modification and interaction hub . For example the producer may provide audience member point balances i.e. incentives earned leader boards and or the like to the API . The API provides an interface based upon the received data.

The API also provides an interface for a voice and SMS service API . Accordingly a voice service may be utilized that is based upon the rules. Further other external applications may also utilize the API . The API allows the producer to integrate content from external applications that are not managed by the content management system e.g. content in a mobile application content in an application content on a website and or the like into the content modification and interaction hub. Accordingly the system of the producer may inform the content modification and interaction hub that an audience member has provided an interaction with that system rather than the content management system . The data is provided by the system of the producer as an input to the content experience engine . The input is provided through the API rather than the event monitor and the inbound queue as with the content management system that is customized with the player user interface widgets and the event monitor for utilization with the content modification and interaction hub .

The content modification and interaction code may be implemented as a set of computer readable instructions that may be utilized by the processor in the memory to perform various actions associated with content modification and interaction. The content modification and interaction code may be represented by one or more software applications where the software is loaded from a storage medium e.g. a magnetic or optical drive diskette or non volatile memory and operated by the processor in the memory of the computer. As such the content modification and interaction code including associated data structures of the present disclosure may be stored on a computer readable medium e.g. RAM memory magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like. As an example the content modification and interaction code may be implemented as an application that is downloaded onto a smartphone or tablet device.

Alternatively the content modification and interaction code may be implemented as one or more physical devices that are coupled to the processor . The content modification and interaction code may be utilized to implement any of the configurations herein.

The content modification and interaction content modification and interaction configuration may be implanted on a computing device. A computing device may be a server computer personal computer PC laptop notebook smartphone tablet device or the like.

The processes described herein may be implemented in a general multi purpose or single purpose processor. Such a processor will execute instructions either at the assembly compiled or machine level to perform the processes. Those instructions can be written by one of ordinary skill in the art following the description of the figures corresponding to the processes and stored or transmitted on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage device. The instructions may also be created using source code or any other known computer aided design tool. A computer readable medium may be any medium capable of carrying those instructions and include a CD ROM DVD magnetic or other optical disc tape silicon memory e.g. removable non removable volatile or non volatile packetized or non packetized data through wireline or wireless transmissions locally or remotely through a network. A computer is herein intended to include any device that has a general multi purpose or single purpose processor as described above.

It is understood that the processes systems apparatuses and compute program products described herein may also be applied in other types of processes systems apparatuses and computer program products. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various adaptations and modifications of the embodiments of the processes systems apparatuses and compute program products described herein may be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the present processes and systems. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the present processes systems apparatuses and compute program products may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

