---

title: Plain bearing for a steering spindle
abstract: In a plain bearing for a steering spindle of a steering column for a motor vehicle having an inner ring for receiving and slidingly mounting the steering spindle, the inner ring is surrounded by an outer ring, and elastic intermediate pieces are arranged between the inner ring and the outer ring . A respective elastic intermediate piece holds the inner ring at the location of the intermediate piece at a spacing from the outer ring in relation to the radial direction in the unloaded state of the plain bearing and can be compressed in the case of a force which acts on the inner ring and is directed outwards in the radial direction, the inner ring bearing against the outer ring if a limiting value of the radial force is exceeded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09145160&OS=09145160&RS=09145160
owner: ThyssenKrupp Presta Aktiengesellschaft
number: 09145160
owner_city: Eschen
owner_country: LI
publication_date: 20130507
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Entry of International Patent Application Ser. No. PCT EP2013 001345 filed May 7 2013 which claims priority to German patent application no. 102012105151.8 filed Jun. 14 2012.

The invention relates to a plain bearing for a steering spindle of a steering column for a motor vehicle having an inner ring for receiving and slidingly mounting the steering spindle. Furthermore the invention relates to a steering column for a vehicle having a plain bearing of this type.

Adjustable length steering columns are known in which the casing unit which rotatably mounts a shaft of the steering spindle which shaft supports the steering wheel can be adjusted in the longitudinal direction of the steering spindle. Here in one advantageous embodiment the steering spindle has two shafts which can be telescoped with respect to one another the rear shaft in relation to the driving direction which adjoins the steering wheel being mounted rotatably with respect to the casing unit via first and second anti friction bearings and being held non displaceably in the axial direction. The front shaft which can be telescoped with respect to the rear shaft is mounted rotatably by means of a third bearing which is formed by a plain bearing with respect to a housing part of the steering column which housing part is non displaceable in the axial direction of the steering shaft. Here said plain bearing supports the lower shaft against axial displacement with respect to the housing part which mounts it.

In a steering column of this type in which the rear shaft is mounted in the casing unit by way of two bearings the arrangement of a third bearing leads to redundancy which leads to a technically satisfactory result only by way of narrow tolerance requirements. Here in order for it to be possible to compensate for knocking of the shaft which knocking is caused by tolerances of the shaft and its mounting via the first and second bearing the third bearing is conventionally configured as a swinging bearing. The swinging bearing is arranged in a bearing housing which surrounds it forms the interface between the swinging bearing and that part of the steering column which holds the third bearing and serves to compensate for tolerances. In order to provide overload protection for the third bearing a steel disc is arranged on the shaft axially next to the third bearing. High forces which act on the third bearing in the radial direction are produced for example during the slipping coupling test for the latching star which is usually positioned directly next to the third bearing. Said latching star serves together with a latching pin which engages into it to form a steering wheel lock. If the steering wheel is rotated with a high force in the closed state of the steering wheel lock the latching star has to be capable of slipping on the shaft.

One disadvantage of the described conventional configuration of the plain bearing is its multiple piece construction swinging bearing bearing housing steel disc with the associated costs and the resulting weight of the arrangement.

EP 0 836 980 B1 has disclosed a plain bearing for rotatably mounting a shaft of a steering spindle which plain bearing comprises a sleeve and a holder. The sleeve has a cylindrical section and protruding axially from the latter a plurality of projections which are separated by way of slots and the axial end sections of which form the bearing face on their inner sides. On their outer sides which lie opposite the projections have latching lugs. The holder is snapped via the latching lugs onto the projections and has a planar section which lies at a right angle with respect to the longitudinal axis and oblique holding tongues which project radially to the outside beyond the planar section of the holder. Said holding tongues block a movement of the bearing with respect to the housing part which receives the bearing in the axial direction.

It is an object of the invention to provide an inexpensive and weight saving plain bearing of the type mentioned at the outset by which deviations of the shaft of the steering spindle which shaft is mounted by the plain bearing with respect to a centred and or axially oriented position can be absorbed in a limited manner at the location of the plain bearing and by which high radial forces can be absorbed.

In the plain bearing according to the invention the inner ring which in the use state surrounds and slidingly mounts the steering spindle is surrounded by an outer ring elastic intermediate pieces being arranged between the inner ring and the outer ring which elastic intermediate pieces bridge the gap which is present between the inner ring and the outer ring. In the unloaded state of the plain bearing the elastic intermediate pieces hold the inner ring at a spacing from the outer ring in relation to the radial direction. In the case of a force which acts on the inner ring and is directed in the radial direction a displacement of the inner ring in the radial direction occurs at least one of the elastic intermediate pieces being compressed. If a limiting value for the radial force is exceeded the inner ring bears against the outer ring. The spacing between the outer ring and the inner ring the value of which was first of all greater than zero in the region of the intermediate piece has then been reduced as far as zero in the region of the respective intermediate piece as a consequence of the compression of the respective intermediate piece.

Here the region which is arranged directly next to or spaced apart next to the respective intermediate piece can be called the region of the intermediate piece. The radial force which exceeds the limiting value is therefore transmitted directly from the inner ring to the outer ring.

A plain bearing according to the invention can advantageously be of very light configuration said plain bearing having a high stability. Deviations of the mounted shaft in the radial direction with respect to its axially centred orientation and in its angular position with respect to its parallel arrangement with respect to the provided longitudinal axis can be absorbed over a limited range. If said range is exceeded forces can be transmitted directly from the inner ring to the outer ring.

The radial displacement travel of the inner ring until it bears against the outer ring is preferably at least 0.3 mm starting from its unloaded state in all radial directions a value of less than 1 mm being preferred.

There are advantageously at least three intermediate pieces which are distributed in the circumferential direction in particular uniformly which intermediate pieces are arranged between the inner ring and the outer ring. One possible embodiment provides precisely four intermediate pieces which are spaced apart in each case at an angle of 90 from one another.

At least one lug which protrudes beyond the inner ring radially to the outside and engages into a recess in the outer ring is advantageously arranged on the inner ring. As an alternative or in addition to this at least one lug which protrudes beyond the outer ring radially to the inside and engages into a recess in the inner ring can be arranged on the outer ring. At least two lugs which are spaced apart from one another in the circumferential direction in particular uniformly and in each case engage into a recess in the other of the two rings are preferably arranged on the inner ring and or on the outer ring. For example two lugs of this type which lie opposite one another can be arranged on the inner ring and or on the outer ring.

By way of said lug or lugs which engages engage into the recess or respective recess a positively acting stop can be achieved between the inner ring and the outer ring in relation to the circumferential direction rotational direction about the longitudinal centre axis of the sliding bearing and or in relation to the axial direction. There is advantageously a relatively large play both in the circumferential direction and in the axial direction between the lug or respective lug and the recess into which it engages. The play in the circumferential direction is preferably at least 0.2 mm a play of less than 1 mm being preferred. The play in the axial direction is preferably at least 0.2 mm a play of less than 1 mm being preferred. In the unloaded state of the plain bearing the respective lug can favourably be arranged in a centred manner in the respective recess.

If the at least one lug is considered to be part of the ring on which it is arranged the internal diameter of the outer ring around the entire circumference is greater than the external diameter of the inner ring apart from the at least one circumferential point at which the lug or respective lug lies.

The lug or respective lug can be configured in an integral material manner with the inner ring or outer ring in particular by way of injection moulding. Another type of fastening is also conceivable and possible in principle for example by way of adhesive bonding.

In one advantageous embodiment the inner ring is of slotted configuration said inner ring having an interruption at a single point of its circumference. As a result it can be pushed onto the steering spindle as far as the bearing point with an increase in its internal diameter the elasticity of the material of the inner ring being utilized to increase its internal diameter and the elastic intermediate pieces being compressed. The internal diameter of the inner ring can preferably be widened by at least 3 particularly preferably by at least 5 . At the bearing point the steering spindle can favourably have a groove into which the inner ring snaps. In this way the plain bearing can support the steering spindle or the corresponding shaft of the steering spindle in the axial direction in a simple way.

The intermediate pieces the material of which is substantially more elastic preferably at least five times more elastic than the material of the inner ring and the material of the outer ring are favourably composed of an elastomeric material for example a rubber elastomer. In one possible embodiment the intermediate pieces are injection moulded on the inner ring and or on the outer ring. As a result simple production logistics and assembly can be achieved. Corresponding injection moulding processes are known as two component injection moulding processes. Another fastening to the inner ring and or outer ring for example by way of adhesive bonding or vulcanizing is also possible.

A plain bearing according to the invention can advantageously be used for mounting a steering spindle of a steering column which is adjustable in the longitudinal direction of the steering spindle. For the cases in particular in which the steering spindle comprises a first and a second shaft which are of telescopic configuration with respect to one another the plain bearing according to the invention is advantageously used. Here the plain bearing can favourably support the shaft which is mounted by it in the axial direction.

In one advantageous embodiment the steering spindle is additionally mounted by two further bearings which are arranged closer to the steering wheel side end of the steering spindle and which are formed in particular by anti friction bearings.

The two bearings which are arranged closer to the steering wheel side end of the steering spindle are particularly advantageously both arranged for rotatably mounting the first shaft of the steering spindle which comprises the steering wheel side end of the steering spindle and the plain bearing according to the invention is arranged for mounting the second shaft which is arranged such that it can be telescoped with respect to said first shaft.

Further advantages and details of the invention will be explained in the following text using the appended drawing in which 

The plain bearing has an outer ring which surrounds a longitudinal centre axis and can be mounted in a housing part of a steering column in order to hold the plain bearing in a stationary manner with respect to the housing part. The outer ring is then held in the housing part of the steering column in a rotationally fixed manner and such that it cannot be displaced in the axial direction. Furthermore the plain bearing has an inner ring by which the shaft of the steering spindle to be mounted is surrounded and is mounted slidingly. The steering spindle is therefore arranged in the interior space which is surrounded by the inner ring . Apart from the lugs which are arranged on the inner ring and will be described in further detail below the external diameter of the inner ring is smaller over its entire circumference that is to say over the entire extent around the longitudinal centre axis of the plain bearing than the internal diameter of the outer ring . As a result a gap is formed between the inner ring and the outer ring . In a manner which corresponds to the gap width the inner ring is at a spacing from the outer ring along its circumference.

Elastic intermediate pieces are arranged between the inner ring and the outer ring which elastic intermediate pieces therefore bridge the gap between the inner ring and the outer ring . A respective elastic intermediate piece holds the inner ring at the point at which it is arranged at a spacing from the outer ring in the radial direction with regard to the longitudinal centre axis if no external forces act on the plain bearing that is to say in the unloaded state of the plain bearing. In the unloaded state of the plain bearing the inner ring is centred within the outer ring by way of the intermediate pieces that is to say the inner ring and the outer ring are coaxial with respect to one another.

If a force acts on the inner ring at the location of an intermediate piece which force acts at the location of said intermediate piece towards the outside in the radial direction in relation to the longitudinal centre axis or has at least one component of this type the respective intermediate piece is thus compressed and the spacing between the inner ring and the outer ring is reduced in a region which is arranged immediately next to or spaced apart next to the respective intermediate piece . If a limiting value of the radial force or the radially directed component of the force is exceeded the intermediate piece is compressed to such an extent that the inner ring bears against the outer ring in regions which lie immediately next to or spaced apart next to the spacing preferably being less than one sixth of the entire circumference the intermediate piece . The elastic decoupling between the inner ring and the outer ring is therefore cancelled and the inner ring becomes fixed on the outer ring.

There are four elastic intermediate pieces which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction by in each case 90 in the exemplary embodiment. More than four intermediate pieces which are preferably spaced apart uniformly in the circumferential direction might also be provided. Secondly there might also be only three intermediate pieces which are spaced apart in the circumferential direction preferably in each case by 120 .

Lugs are arranged on the inner ring at two locations which lie opposite one another in relation to the longitudinal centre axis that is to say at a spacing of 180 in relation to the circumferential direction which lugs project radially to the outside from the inner ring . A respective lug protrudes into a recess in the outer ring in which recess it is received such that it can be displaced in the radial direction. In the exemplary embodiment the recesses are configured in the form of window openings which radially penetrate the outer ring . For example it would also be conceivable and possible to configure the recesses in the form of blind bore like depressions which are arranged on the inner surface of the outer ring .

The lugs might also be arranged on the outer ring and might protrude into a recess in the inner ring which recess is configured for example as a window opening which radially penetrates the inner ring.

More than two lugs which are preferably spaced apart uniformly in the circumferential direction might also be provided which lugs protrude into the respective recess . It would also be conceivable and possible to provide only one lug on the inner ring or outer ring which lug protrudes into a recess in the other ring .

Lugs which are arranged both on the inner ring and on the outer ring and protrude into a respective recess on the other of the two rings are also conceivable and possible.

The axial displaceability of the inner ring with respect to the outer ring can be limited by way of the at least one lug which protrudes into the associated recess . Furthermore as a result the rotatability of the inner ring with respect to the outer ring can be limited in relation to the longitudinal centre axis .

There is preferably a relatively large play of at least 0.2 mm both in the axial direction and in the circumferential direction between a respective lug and the edge of the recess in which it is arranged. In the unloaded state of the plain bearing the lugs favourably lie in the recesses in a centred manner.

The inner ring is of slotted open configuration said inner ring having a slot at a single location of its circumferential extent. As a result axial pushing of the shaft to be mounted into the ring is made possible or at least facilitated by it being possible for the internal diameter of the inner ring to be increased with widening of the slot . This bending open of the inner ring takes place counter to the elasticity of the material of the inner ring . Furthermore a slot of this type also serves to produce a temperature compensation means in which the slot width can be reduced or increased.

However the elasticity of the material of the inner ring just like the elasticity of the material of the outer ring is substantially lower than the elasticity of the material of the intermediate pieces . The elasticity of the material of the inner ring and the elasticity of the material of the outer ring are preferably at any rate less than one fifth of the elasticity of the material of the intermediate pieces .

The outer ring is provided with a plurality of window openings which are spaced apart from one another in the circumferential direction and penetrate the outer ring in the axial direction. As a result the flexibility of the outer ring is increased. As a result greater tolerances of the housing part can be absorbed into which housing part the outer ring is inserted.

In the exemplary embodiment the window openings lie in the circumferential regions in which the intermediate pieces are arranged between the inner ring and the outer ring .

The outer ring and the inner ring can be composed for example of the same plastic or of different plastics. The inner ring can be configured here overall from a plastic with particularly satisfactory sliding properties for example from PEEK or from a plastic which consists at least for the large part of PEEK or can be coated with a plastic of this type in the region of its inner face which faces the shaft to be mounted. Combinations of materials made from PEEK with in addition one of the materials PTFE and or graphite and or carbon fibres can advantageously also be used. An approximately 10 volumetric proportion of PTFE and an approximately 30 proportion of graphite and an approximately 30 proportion of carbon fibres have proven advantageous.

For example PEEK PTFE or POM may be suitable as plastic for the outer ring and or the base material of the inner ring.

The intermediate pieces are composed of an elastomeric material preferably of a rubber elastomer the intermediate pieces might also be called rubber buffers.

On its outer side which faces the outer ring the inner ring has a plurality of depressions which are distributed over its circumference. The outer surfaces of the elevations which lie between said depressions form bearing faces for contact with the inner side of the outer ring when the inner ring becomes fixed against the outer ring . The intermediate pieces protrude into depressions of this type on the outer side of the inner ring and are held in them for example by way of injection moulding onto the inner ring or by way of adhesive bonding.

On its inner side which faces away from the outer ring and therefore faces the longitudinal centre axis the inner ring has a plurality of depressions which are distributed over its circumference. The inner surfaces of the elevations which lie between the depressions form the sliding face which interacts with the shaft to be mounted. In the unloaded state of the plain bearing the size of the gap between those sections of the sliding face which are formed by the respective elevations and the inner face of the outer ring is favourably identical over the entire circumference. The elasticity of the inner ring is increased by way of the depressions .

A first exemplary embodiment for a shaft which can be mounted by the plain bearing according to the invention and is part of a steering spindle of a steering column is shown in . Over a section of its longitudinal extent said shaft has a cross sectional shape which differs from the circular shape in particular a cloverleaf shape in order to be connected to a further shaft of the steering spindle fixedly in terms of rotation but axially displaceably telescopic . Said further shaft then has a cavity which extends in the axial direction with a corresponding inner circumferential contour in a known way.

At the bearing point at which the shaft is mounted slidingly by the plain bearing the shaft has an annular groove . When the shaft is pushed axially into the inner ring the latter first of all expands radially with widening of the slot with compression of the intermediate pieces until the annular groove reaches the inner ring and the inner ring snaps into the annular groove . As a result the shaft can be supported axially by the plain bearing.

At the end which lies opposite the cloverleaf contour the shaft in the exemplary embodiment is configured with a connecting pin via which the shaft is connected to a cardan joint and a via the latter to further parts not shown of a steering device.

The rear first shaft is mounted rotatably with respect to a casing unit of the steering column by means of first and second bearings . The first and second bearings are configured as anti friction bearings. The second shaft is mounted rotatably in the third bearing the plain bearing according to the invention.

The steering column has a supporting unit which is to be fastened to the body of the motor vehicle and on which a pivoting unit of the steering column is mounted such that it can be pivoted about a pivoting axis . The pivotability of the pivoting unit about the pivoting axis serves for height and tilt adjustment of the steering column. The pivoting unit receives the casing unit in an axially displaceable manner in order to make length adjustment of the steering column possible.

In the exemplary embodiment which is shown the height and tilt adjustment and the length adjustment of the steering column take place by way of electric drive motors . The drive motors actuate spindle drives as is known. Instead of an electric adjustment of the steering column the latter might also be manually adjustable. For this purpose there might be a fixing apparatus which can be opened and closed manually for example in the open state of which the steering column can be adjusted and in the closed state of which the set position of the steering column is fixed. Manually or automatically adjustable steering columns are known in different embodiments. The type of adjustability of the steering column is not the subject matter of the present invention.

The front shaft of the steering spindle is mounted by way of a plain bearing according to the invention. The plain bearing therefore represents a third bearing for mounting the steering spindle which third bearing is present in addition to the bearings . As a result of the flexible connection between the inner ring and the outer ring via the intermediate pieces deviations from the exactly coaxial arrangement of the shaft in the region of the bearing point and exactly parallel orientation of the shaft with respect to the longitudinal centre axis of the plain bearing can be absorbed. Deviations of this type can occur for example by way of a configuration of the steering spindle which is not exactly rectilinear and or by way of orientations of the bearings which are not exactly coaxial. Without this function of said plain bearing the construction would be redundant with regard to the additionally present bearings and the existing tolerance ranges would have to be very greatly restricted.

At the bearing point of the second shaft the second shaft is configured with an annular groove by way of which the plain bearing supports the second shaft against an axial displacement force.

