---

title: Systems and methods for scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms
abstract: A computer-implemented method for scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms may include (1) identifying a cloud computing service that hosts a plurality of cloud computing instances and a plurality of data volumes that store data for the plurality of cloud computing instances, (2) determining that a data volume within the plurality of data volumes that stores data for a cloud computing instance within the plurality of cloud computing instances is subject to a security scan, (3) detecting a computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance, and (4) performing the security scan on the data volume from the computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance instead of performing the security scan from within the cloud computing instance. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104859&OS=09104859&RS=09104859
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09104859
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130624
---
Organizations and consumers increasingly use cloud based services to run applications and store data. Cloud based computing services may provide a number of benefits to customers including flexibility reliability low capitalization requirements add on services data sharing and centralized access to data. For example organizations may quickly create or modify cloud based computing instances on an as needed basis to execute applications.

In order to ensure information security many organizations install security systems on their computing systems to scan data stored by applications executing on those computing systems. Traditional approaches to cloud based information security may often operate in a similar fashion. For example organizations may deploy security software within their cloud based computing instances to scan the cloud stored data corresponding to each computing instance. Unfortunately security scanning operations may often be computationally intensive potentially creating a negative impact on the performance of primary applications executing within the computing instances.

Accordingly the instant disclosure identifies and addresses a need for additional and improved systems and methods for scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms.

As will be described in greater detail below the instant disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms by performing scans of data stored by cloud computing instances from computing systems external to the cloud computing instances.

In one example a computer implemented method for scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms may include 1 identifying a cloud computing service that hosts i a plurality of cloud computing instances and ii a plurality of data volumes that store data for the plurality of cloud computing instances 2 determining that a data volume within the plurality of data volumes that stores data for a cloud computing instance within the plurality of cloud computing instances is subject to a security scan 3 detecting a computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance and 4 performing the security scan on the data volume from the computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance instead of performing the security scan from within the cloud computing instance.

In one embodiment the computer implemented method may further include retrieving from the cloud computing service information identifying changed data on the data volume that has changed since a previous security scan. In this embodiment performing the security scan on the data volume may include performing the security scan on the changed data based on having identified that the changed data has changed since the previous security scan.

In some examples the computer implemented method may further include identifying an owner of the cloud computing instance. In these examples performing the security scan on the data volume may include selecting data within the data volume to scan based on the owner of the cloud computing instance. Additionally or alternatively performing the security scan on the data volume may include prioritizing the security scan on the data volume over a security scan on an additional data volume within the plurality of data volumes based on the owner of the cloud computing instance.

In some examples the computer implemented method may further include identifying an owner of the data volume. In these examples performing the security scan on the data volume may include selecting data within the data volume to scan based on the owner of the data volume. Additionally or alternatively performing the security scan on the data volume may include prioritizing the security scan on the data volume over a security scan on an additional data volume within the plurality of data volumes based on the owner of the data volume.

In some examples performing the security scan on the data volume from the computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance may include performing the security scan on the data volume from the computing system externally to the cloud computing service.

In some examples performing the security scan on the data volume from the computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance may include performing the security scan using a processor device and a memory device that are unavailable to the cloud computing instance.

In some examples the computer implemented method may further include taking a snapshot of the data volume. In these examples performing the security scan on the data volume may include performing the security scan on the snapshot of the data volume.

In one embodiment a system for implementing the above described method may include 1 an identification module that identifies a cloud computing service that hosts i a plurality of cloud computing instances and ii a plurality of data volumes that store data for the plurality of cloud computing instances 2 a determination module that determines that a data volume within the plurality of data volumes that stores data for a cloud computing instance within the plurality of cloud computing instances is subject to a security scan 3 a detection module that detects a computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance 4 a performing module that performs the security scan on the data volume from the computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance instead of performing the security scan from within the cloud computing instance and 5 at least one processor configured to execute the identification module the determination module the detection module and the performing module.

In some examples the above described method may be encoded as computer readable instructions on a computer readable storage medium. For example a computer readable storage medium may include one or more computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor of a computing device may cause the computing device to 1 identify a cloud computing service that hosts i a plurality of cloud computing instances and ii a plurality of data volumes that store data for the plurality of cloud computing instances 2 determine that a data volume within the plurality of data volumes that stores data for a cloud computing instance within the plurality of cloud computing instances is subject to a security scan 3 detect a computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance and 4 perform the security scan on the data volume from the computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance instead of performing the security scan from within the cloud computing instance.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

Throughout the drawings identical reference characters and descriptions indicate similar but not necessarily identical elements. While the exemplary embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

The present disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms. As will be explained in greater detail below by performing scans of data stored by cloud computing instances from computing systems external to the cloud computing instances the systems and methods described herein may facilitate information security for cloud computing instances consuming computing resources used by and or allocated for the cloud computing instances. In this manner the performance of primary applications within cloud computing instances may suffer minimal to no impact from security scans.

The following will provide with reference to and detailed descriptions of exemplary systems for scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms. Detailed descriptions of corresponding computer implemented methods will also be provided in connection with . In addition detailed descriptions of an exemplary computing system and network architecture capable of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein will be provided in connection with respectively.

In certain embodiments one or more of modules in may represent one or more software applications or programs that when executed by a computing device may cause the computing device to perform one or more tasks. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may represent software modules stored and configured to run on one or more computing devices such as the devices illustrated in e.g. computing device computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . One or more of modules in may also represent all or portions of one or more special purpose computers configured to perform one or more tasks.

As illustrated in exemplary system may also include one or more databases such as database . In one example database may be configured to store data for one or more applications executing within one or more cloud computing instances. For example database may store a data volume .

Database may represent portions of a single database or computing device or a plurality of databases or computing devices. For example database may represent a portion of cloud computing service in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in . Alternatively database in may represent one or more physically separate devices capable of being accessed by a computing device such as a computing device underlying cloud computing service in computing system in and or portions of exemplary network architecture in .

Exemplary system in may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example all or a portion of exemplary system may represent portions of exemplary system in . As shown in system may include a computing device in communication with a cloud computing service via a network . Computing device may be programmed with one or more of modules . Additionally or alternatively cloud computing service may be programmed with one or more of modules and or may store all or a portion of the data in database .

In one embodiment one or more of modules from may when executed by at least one processor of computing device and or cloud computing service facilitate computing device and or cloud computing service in scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms. For example and as will be described in greater detail below one or more of modules may cause computing device and or cloud computing service to scan data stored on cloud computing platforms. For example and as will be described in greater detail below identification module may be programmed to identify cloud computing service that hosts cloud computing instances and data volumes that store data for cloud computing instances . Determination module may be programmed to determine that a data volume within data volumes that stores data for a cloud computing instance within cloud computing instances is subject to a security scan. Detection module may be programmed to detect computing device that is external to cloud computing instance . Performing module may be programmed to perform the security scan on data volume from computing device that is external to cloud computing instance instead of performing the security scan from within cloud computing instance .

Computing device generally represents any type or form of computing device capable of reading computer executable instructions. Examples of computing device include without limitation laptops tablets desktops servers cellular phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs multimedia players embedded systems combinations of one or more of the same exemplary computing system in or any other suitable computing device.

Cloud computing service generally represents any type or form of computing system that is capable of providing online hosting of applications and or storage. Examples of cloud computing service include without limitation Software as a Service SaaS systems and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS systems. In some examples cloud computing service may provide one or more clients with a view of applications and data without providing the client complete access to all underlying systems.

Network generally represents any medium or architecture capable of facilitating communication or data transfer. Examples of network include without limitation an intranet a Wide Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN a Personal Area Network PAN the Internet Power Line Communications PLC a cellular network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network exemplary network architecture in or the like. Network may facilitate communication or data transfer using wireless or wired connections. In one embodiment network may facilitate communication between computing device and cloud computing service .

As illustrated in at step one or more of the systems described herein may identify a cloud computing service that hosts a plurality of cloud computing instances and a plurality of data volumes that store data for the plurality of cloud computing instances. For example at step identification module may as part of computing device in identify cloud computing service that hosts cloud computing instances and data volumes that store data for cloud computing instances .

As used herein the phrase cloud computing service may refer to any service platform and or infrastructure that is capable of providing online and or third party hosting for applications and or storage. Examples of cloud computing services include without limitation Software as a Service SaaS systems and Infrastructure as a Service IaaS systems. In some examples a cloud computing service may provide one or more clients with a view of applications and data without providing the client complete access to all underlying systems. For example a cloud computing service may allow a consumer to specify service requirements and or resource requirements for one or more applications and or virtual machines without requiring and or allowing the consumer to control the underlying hardware resources. Examples of cloud computing services may include without limitation VMWARE VSPHERE AMAZON WEB SERVICES AMAZON S3 and BOX.NET BOX PLATFORM.

As used herein the phrase cloud computing instance may refer to any unit of computational resources that may be provided by a cloud computing service and that may store data on the cloud computing service. In some examples the phrase cloud computing instance may correspond to a virtual machine provisioned within the cloud computing service e.g. onto which a user may install one or more applications that may store data on the cloud computing service . As used herein the phrase virtual machine generally refers to any operating system environment that is abstracted from computing hardware by a virtual machine manager e.g. a hypervisor . Additionally or alternatively the modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtualization layer. As used herein the phrase virtualization layer generally refers to any data layer and or application layer that overlays and or is abstracted from an operating system environment. A virtualization layer may be managed by a software virtualization solution e.g. a file system filter that presents the virtualization layer as though it were part of an underlying base operating system. For example a software virtualization solution may redirect calls that are initially directed to locations within a base file system and or registry to locations within a virtualization layer. Examples of cloud computing instances include without limitation AMAZON ELASTIC COMPUTE CLOUD EC2 instances and VMWARE VCENTER virtual machines.

As used herein the phrase data volume may refer to any distinctly identifiable collection of data that may be stored via a cloud computing service. In some examples the volume may correspond to a logical storage unit used by a file system to store one or more files. In some examples the term data volume may refer to an addressable storage space capable of storing files. In some examples the phrase data volume may refer to a virtual disk and or a virtualized storage layer. Examples of data volumes include without limitation AMAZON ELASTIC BLOCK STORE EBS volumes and VMWARE virtual volumes.

Identification module may identify the cloud computing service in any of a variety of ways. For example identification module may identify the cloud computing service by identifying and or using an application programming interface for communicating with the cloud computing service. In some examples identification module may identify the cloud computing service by identifying one or more cloud computing instances hosted within the cloud computing service. Additionally or alternatively identification module may identify the cloud computing service by identifying one or more data volumes hosted within the cloud computing service.

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may determine that a data volume within the plurality of data volumes that stores data for a cloud computing instance within the plurality of cloud computing instances is subject to a security scan. For example at step determination module may as part of computing device in determine that data volume that stores data for cloud computing instance is subject to a security scan. As used herein the phrase security scan may refer to any suitable security assessment analysis and or scan of stored data. For example the security scan may include a malware scan to identify potentially malicious files within a volume of data e.g. by performing a signature based scan on the files and or a static analysis of the files . As another example the security scan may include a data loss prevention scan. As used herein the phrase data loss prevention may refer to a technique for protecting sensitive information by applying one or more policies rules and or heuristics to data within the bounds of a system to determine the disposition of the data in various scenarios. In some examples a data loss prevention scan may locate potentially sensitive information within a data volume. Additionally or alternatively the data loss prevention scan may determine that sensitive information is insecurely stored and or may tag data with one or more categories that are consumable by data loss prevention policies. These data loss prevention policies may prohibit data from being used and or transmitted in specified scenarios.

Determination module may determine that the data volume is subject to a security scan in any of a variety of ways. For example determination module may determine that the data volume is subject to a security scan based on an owner of the data volume. Additionally or alternatively determination module may determine that the data volume is subject to a security scan based on an owner of the cloud computing instance that uses the data volume. In some examples determination module may determine that the data volume is subject to a security scan based on a security policy that identifies the data volume.

Using as an example at step determination module may determine that data volume is subject to a security scan. For example determination module may determine that data volume is subject to a security scan based on a security policy that specifies data volume .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may detect a computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance. For example at step detection module may as part of computing device in detect computing device that is external to cloud computing instance .

Detection module may detect the computing system external to the cloud computing instance in any suitable manner. For example detection module may identify a list of security servers capable of performing scans on cloud stored volumes and select the computing system from the list. In another example the detection module may execute on the computing system external to the cloud computing instance. In this example detection module may detect the computing system external to the cloud computing instance by executing on the computing system.

By using a computing system external to the cloud computing instance to perform the security scan the systems and methods described may avoid an impact on the performance of the cloud computing instance. In some examples the computing system may perform the security scan using a processor and or volatile memory resources that are not allocated for relied upon and or available to the cloud computing instance. For example the cloud computing instance may rely on one or more computing devices that make up the infrastructure of the cloud computing service whereas the computing system external to the cloud computing instance may operate entirely outside and independent of the cloud computing service.

Using as an example at step detection module may detect security server as a computing system external to virtual machine from which to scan data volume .

Returning to at step one or more of the systems described herein may perform the security scan on the data volume from the computing system that is external to the cloud computing instance instead of performing the security scan from within the cloud computing instance. For example at step performing module may as part of computing device in perform the security scan on data volume from the computing system that is external to cloud computing instance instead of performing the security scan from within cloud computing instance .

Performing module may perform the security scan on the data volume in any of a variety of ways. For example performing module may perform the security scan on the data volume on a periodic basis. In some examples performing module may limit the security scan to a portion of the data volume. For example performing module may retrieve from the cloud computing service information identifying changed data on the data volume that has changed since a previous security scan. In this example performing module may perform the security scan on the changed data and e.g. not on the unchanged data . Performing module may retrieve the information about the changed data from the cloud computing service in any suitable manner. For example performing module may query the cloud computing service via an application programming interface to retrieve a list of changed files and or blocks. Additionally or alternatively performing module may retrieve one or activity logs generated by the cloud computing service that identify changed files.

In some examples performing module may take a snapshot of the data volume or identify a snapshot of the data volume taken by another system such as the cloud computing service . In these examples performing module may perform the security scan on the data volume by performing the security scan on the snapshot of the volume. Additionally in some examples performing module may create an incremental snapshot of the data volume that tracks changed blocks and or files. Accordingly performing module may perform the security scan on the changed data as identified from the incremental snapshot of the data volume.

In some examples performing module may define the scope of the security scan based on information about an owner of the data volume and or an owner of the computing instance. For example performing module may identify an owner of the cloud computing instance and select data within the volume to scan based on the owner of the cloud computing instance. Additionally or alternatively performing module may identify an owner of the data volume and select data within the volume to scan based on the owner of the data volume. For example performing module may configure a data loss prevention policy to apply to the data volume based on what data an owner of the computing instance and or data volume is expected to store and or is allowed to store. For example performing module may determine that a chief financial officer of an organization owns the computing instance. In this example performing module may include policies that are directed to protecting financial data in the security scan of the corresponding data volume. In this manner performing module may avoid unnecessarily analyzing every piece of available data under every available security policy. For example performing module may perform differentiated scans on multiple data volumes within the cloud computing service based on the ownership of the data volumes and or their corresponding cloud computing instances.

In some examples performing module may prioritize one or more security scans between one or more data volumes within the cloud computing service based on the ownership of the data volumes and or their corresponding cloud computing instances. For example performing module may perform earlier more frequent and or more intensive security scans on data volumes owned by high priority users who are tagged as more likely to store important and or sensitive data.

Performing module may identify an owner of a data volume and or a cloud computing instance in any suitable manner. For example performing module may identify a user account with rights to configure and or access the data volume and or cloud computing instance. In some examples performing module may identify information that indicates what users have accessed and or changed data on the data volume most frequently and or recently and infer ownership of the data volume based on the information.

In some examples performing module may perform the security scan using a processor device and a memory device that are unavailable to the cloud computing instance. In this manner performing module may avoid competing for computing resources with the cloud computing instance.

Using as an example at step performing module may perform a security scan on data volume . In some examples performing module may determine the scope of the security scan based on changed data information that identifies which data in data volume has changed since a previous security scan. Additionally or alternatively performing module may determine the scope of the security scan based on ownership information that identifies an owner of data volume and or virtual machine . In some examples performing module may apply different security policies to data volumes and based on differing ownership information between data volumes and and or between virtual machines and . After step method may terminate.

As described above by performing scans of data stored by cloud computing instances from computing systems external to the cloud computing instances the systems and methods described herein may facilitate information security for cloud computing instances consuming computing resources used by and or allocated for the cloud computing instances. In this manner the performance of primary applications within cloud computing instances may suffer minimal to no impact from security scans. Furthermore in some examples these systems and methods may limit security scans to changed data identified via the cloud computing service and or may intelligently match security policies with data based on ownership information of the data volumes and or cloud computing instances.

In one example a scanning engine e.g. a data loss prevention engine and or an anti malware engine may be hosted on a server separate from and external to cloud computing instances. The scanning engine may implement offline scans that run periodically to scan for sensitive content and or malware in cloud based computing platforms. Using AMAZON WEB SERVICES AWS as an example the systems described herein may identify the set of EC2 instances and their attached EBS volumes by using application programming interfaces for the AWS management console. The systems described herein may also identify additional context about the instances such as who started the instances and or created the volumes. The systems described herein may then take snapshots e.g. incremental snapshots of the EBS volumes. Using the snapshots in combination with change block tracking and or change file tracking the systems described herein may identify the set of files that have changed e.g. since a previous security scan . The scanning engine may then restrict the scope of a scan to the changed files only. Additionally or alternatively the scanning engine may use the additional context about the ownership of the instances and or volumes to determine the scope of the scan.

Using VMWARE based cloud platforms as an example the VSTORAGE application programming interface for data protection may offer change list tracking. Additionally or alternatively storage systems may include native capabilities to identify changed blocks. Accordingly the systems described herein may use one or more change tracking techniques to scan only changed files. This information may be used in combination with additional context e.g. about ownership of the data volumes and or instances to prioritize the application of security policies and or to determine the extent of applicable policies and rules to the various data volumes within a cloud storage service.

Computing system broadly represents any single or multi processor computing device or system capable of executing computer readable instructions. Examples of computing system include without limitation workstations laptops client side terminals servers distributed computing systems handheld devices or any other computing system or device. In its most basic configuration computing system may include at least one processor and a system memory .

Processor generally represents any type or form of processing unit capable of processing data or interpreting and executing instructions. In certain embodiments processor may receive instructions from a software application or module. These instructions may cause processor to perform the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein.

System memory generally represents any type or form of volatile or non volatile storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. Examples of system memory include without limitation Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM flash memory or any other suitable memory device. Although not required in certain embodiments computing system may include both a volatile memory unit such as for example system memory and a non volatile storage device such as for example primary storage device as described in detail below . In one example one or more of modules from may be loaded into system memory .

In certain embodiments exemplary computing system may also include one or more components or elements in addition to processor and system memory . For example as illustrated in computing system may include a memory controller an Input Output I O controller and a communication interface each of which may be interconnected via a communication infrastructure . Communication infrastructure generally represents any type or form of infrastructure capable of facilitating communication between one or more components of a computing device. Examples of communication infrastructure include without limitation a communication bus such as an Industry Standard Architecture ISA Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI PCI Express PCIe or similar bus and a network.

Memory controller generally represents any type or form of device capable of handling memory or data or controlling communication between one or more components of computing system . For example in certain embodiments memory controller may control communication between processor system memory and I O controller via communication infrastructure .

I O controller generally represents any type or form of module capable of coordinating and or controlling the input and output functions of a computing device. For example in certain embodiments I O controller may control or facilitate transfer of data between one or more elements of computing system such as processor system memory communication interface display adapter input interface and storage interface .

Communication interface broadly represents any type or form of communication device or adapter capable of facilitating communication between exemplary computing system and one or more additional devices. For example in certain embodiments communication interface may facilitate communication between computing system and a private or public network including additional computing systems. Examples of communication interface include without limitation a wired network interface such as a network interface card a wireless network interface such as a wireless network interface card a modem and any other suitable interface. In at least one embodiment communication interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct link to a network such as the Internet. Communication interface may also indirectly provide such a connection through for example a local area network such as an Ethernet network a personal area network a telephone or cable network a cellular telephone connection a satellite data connection or any other suitable connection.

In certain embodiments communication interface may also represent a host adapter configured to facilitate communication between computing system and one or more additional network or storage devices via an external bus or communications channel. Examples of host adapters include without limitation Small Computer System Interface SCSI host adapters Universal Serial Bus USB host adapters Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 host adapters Advanced Technology Attachment ATA Parallel ATA PATA Serial ATA SATA and External SATA eSATA host adapters Fibre Channel interface adapters Ethernet adapters or the like. Communication interface may also allow computing system to engage in distributed or remote computing. For example communication interface may receive instructions from a remote device or send instructions to a remote device for execution.

As illustrated in computing system may also include at least one display device coupled to communication infrastructure via a display adapter . Display device generally represents any type or form of device capable of visually displaying information forwarded by display adapter . Similarly display adapter generally represents any type or form of device configured to forward graphics text and other data from communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer as known in the art for display on display device .

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include at least one input device coupled to communication infrastructure via an input interface . Input device generally represents any type or form of input device capable of providing input either computer or human generated to exemplary computing system . Examples of input device include without limitation a keyboard a pointing device a speech recognition device or any other input device.

As illustrated in exemplary computing system may also include a primary storage device and a backup storage device coupled to communication infrastructure via a storage interface . Storage devices and generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. For example storage devices and may be a magnetic disk drive e.g. a so called hard drive a solid state drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash drive or the like. Storage interface generally represents any type or form of interface or device for transferring data between storage devices and and other components of computing system . In one example database from may be stored in primary storage device .

In certain embodiments storage devices and may be configured to read from and or write to a removable storage unit configured to store computer software data or other computer readable information. Examples of suitable removable storage units include without limitation a floppy disk a magnetic tape an optical disk a flash memory device or the like. Storage devices and may also include other similar structures or devices for allowing computer software data or other computer readable instructions to be loaded into computing system . For example storage devices and may be configured to read and write software data or other computer readable information. Storage devices and may also be a part of computing system or may be a separate device accessed through other interface systems.

Many other devices or subsystems may be connected to computing system . Conversely all of the components and devices illustrated in need not be present to practice the embodiments described and or illustrated herein. The devices and subsystems referenced above may also be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Computing system may also employ any number of software firmware and or hardware configurations. For example one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program also referred to as computer software software applications computer readable instructions or computer control logic on a computer readable storage medium. The phrase computer readable storage medium generally refers to any form of device carrier or medium capable of storing or carrying computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable storage media include without limitation transmission type media such as carrier waves and non transitory type media such as magnetic storage media e.g. hard disk drives and floppy disks optical storage media e.g. Compact Disks CDs or Digital Video Disks DVDs electronic storage media e.g. solid state drives and flash media and other distribution systems.

The computer readable storage medium containing the computer program may be loaded into computing system . All or a portion of the computer program stored on the computer readable storage medium may then be stored in system memory and or various portions of storage devices and . When executed by processor a computer program loaded into computing system may cause processor to perform and or be a means for performing the functions of one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the exemplary embodiments described and or illustrated herein may be implemented in firmware and or hardware. For example computing system may be configured as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC adapted to implement one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

Client systems and generally represent any type or form of computing device or system such as exemplary computing system in . Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications. Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a WAN a LAN a PAN or the Internet. In one example client systems and or and or servers and or may include all or a portion of system from .

As illustrated in one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Similarly one or more storage devices N may be directly attached to server . Storage devices N and storage devices N generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions. In certain embodiments storage devices N and storage devices N may represent Network Attached Storage NAS devices configured to communicate with servers and using various protocols such as Network File System NFS Server Message Block SMB or Common Internet File System CIFS .

Servers and may also be connected to a Storage Area Network SAN fabric . SAN fabric generally represents any type or form of computer network or architecture capable of facilitating communication between a plurality of storage devices. SAN fabric may facilitate communication between servers and and a plurality of storage devices N and or an intelligent storage array . SAN fabric may also facilitate via network and servers and communication between client systems and and storage devices N and or intelligent storage array in such a manner that devices N and array appear as locally attached devices to client systems and . As with storage devices N and storage devices N storage devices N and intelligent storage array generally represent any type or form of storage device or medium capable of storing data and or other computer readable instructions.

In certain embodiments and with reference to exemplary computing system of a communication interface such as communication interface in may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a web browser or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N or intelligent storage array . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described and or illustrated herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In at least one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may be encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N storage devices N storage devices N intelligent storage array or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

As detailed above computing system and or one or more components of network architecture may perform and or be a means for performing either alone or in combination with other elements one or more steps of an exemplary method for scanning data stored on cloud computing platforms.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a cloud computing or network based environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

In various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may facilitate multi tenancy within a cloud based computing environment. In other words the software modules described herein may configure a computing system e.g. a server to facilitate multi tenancy for one or more of the functions described herein. For example one or more of the software modules described herein may program a server to enable two or more clients e.g. customers to share an application that is running on the server. A server programmed in this manner may share an application operating system processing system and or storage system among multiple customers i.e. tenants . One or more of the modules described herein may also partition data and or configuration information of a multi tenant application for each customer such that one customer cannot access data and or configuration information of another customer.

According to various embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may be implemented within a virtual environment. For example modules and or data described herein may reside and or execute within a virtual machine.

In some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of a mobile computing environment. Mobile computing environments may be implemented by a wide range of mobile computing devices including mobile phones tablet computers e book readers personal digital assistants wearable computing devices e.g. computing devices with a head mounted display smartwatches etc. and the like. In some examples mobile computing environments may have one or more distinct features including for example reliance on battery power presenting only one foreground application at any given time remote management features touchscreen features location and movement data e.g. provided by Global Positioning Systems gyroscopes accelerometers etc. restricted platforms that restrict modifications to system level configurations and or that limit the ability of third party software to inspect the behavior of other applications controls to restrict the installation of applications e.g. to only originate from approved application stores etc. Various functions described herein may be provided for a mobile computing environment and or may interact with a mobile computing environment.

In addition all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of interact with consume data produced by and or produce data consumed by one or more systems for information management. As used herein the phrase information management may refer to the protection organization and or storage of data. Examples of systems for information management may include without limitation storage systems backup systems archival systems replication systems high availability systems data search systems virtualization systems and the like.

In some embodiments all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of produce data protected by and or communicate with one or more systems for information security. As used herein the phrase information security may refer to the control of access to protected data. Examples of systems for information security may include without limitation systems providing managed security services data loss prevention systems identity authentication systems access control systems encryption systems policy compliance systems intrusion detection and prevention systems electronic discovery systems and the like.

According to some examples all or a portion of exemplary system in may represent portions of communicate with and or receive protection from one or more systems for endpoint security. As used herein the phrase endpoint security may refer to the protection of endpoint systems from unauthorized and or illegitimate use access and or control. Examples of systems for endpoint protection may include without limitation anti malware systems user authentication systems encryption systems privacy systems spam filtering services and the like.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable storage media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

In addition one or more of the modules described herein may transform data physical devices and or representations of physical devices from one form to another. For example one or more of the modules recited herein may receive data from a cloud based data volume to be transformed transform the data into a security assessment of the data output a result of the transformation to a security log use the result of the transformation to remove data from the data volume and store the result of the transformation on a storage device. Additionally or alternatively one or more of the modules recited herein may transform a processor volatile memory non volatile memory and or any other portion of a physical computing device from one form to another by executing on the computing device storing data on the computing device and or otherwise interacting with the computing device.

The preceding description has been provided to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize various aspects of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein. This exemplary description is not intended to be exhaustive or to be limited to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the instant disclosure. The embodiments disclosed herein should be considered in all respects illustrative and not restrictive. Reference should be made to the appended claims and their equivalents in determining the scope of the instant disclosure.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

