---

title: Recommending resources to members of a social network
abstract: Systems and methods for presenting recommendations for resources to be used by members in learning about and/or acquiring a skill are described. In some example embodiments, the systems and methods receive information associated with a skill from a member of a social network, identify members of the social network that are associated with the skill, receive information from the identified members of the social network that identifies one or more resources associated with the skill, and generate a list of recommended resources that is based on the information received from the identified members of the social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661039&OS=09661039&RS=09661039
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09661039
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130509
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 806 341 filed on Mar. 28 2013 entitled RECOMMENDING RESOURCES TO MEMBERS OF A SOCIAL NETWORK which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to providing recommendations using social network service information. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods systems and computer program products for recommending resources to members of a social network.

Online social network services provide users with a mechanism for defining and memorializing in a digital format their relationships with other people. This digital representation of real world relationships is frequently referred to as a social graph. Many social network services utilize a social graph to facilitate electronic communications and the sharing of information between its users or members. For instance the relationship between two members of a social network service as defined in the social graph of the social network service may determine the access and sharing privileges that exist between the two members. As such the social graph in use by a social network service may determine the manner in which two members of the social network service can interact with one another via the various communication and sharing mechanisms supported by the social network service.

Some social network services aim to enable friends and family to communicate and share with one another while others are specifically directed to business users with a goal of facilitating the establishment of professional networks and the sharing of business information. For purposes of the present disclosure the terms social network and social network service are used in a broad sense and are meant to encompass services aimed at connecting friends and family often referred to simply as social networks as well as services that are specifically directed to enabling business people to connect and share business information also commonly referred to as social networks but sometimes referred to as business networks or professional networks .

With many social network services members are prompted to provide a variety of personal information which may be displayed in a member s personal web page. Such information is commonly referred to as personal profile information or simply profile information and when shown collectively it is commonly referred to as a member s profile. For example with some of the many social network services in use today the personal information that is commonly requested and displayed as part of a member s profile includes a member s age e.g. birth date gender contact information home town address the name of the member s spouse and or family members a photograph of the member interests and so forth. With certain social network services such as some business network services a member s personal information may include information commonly included in a professional resume or curriculum vitae such as information about a person s education employment history job skills professional organizations and so forth. With some social network services a member s profile may be viewable to the public by default or alternatively the member may specify that only some portion of the profile is to be public by default. As such many social network services serve as a sort of directory of people to be searched and browsed.

The present disclosure describes methods systems and computer program products which individually provide functionality for recommending resources to members of a social network that enable the members to acquire desired skills. For example the systems and methods described herein may present recommendations for resources to be used by members in learning about and or acquiring a skill among other things.

In some example embodiments the systems and methods receive information associated with a skill from a member of a social network identify members of the social network that are associated with the skill receive information from the identified members of the social network that identifies one or more resources associated with the skill and generate a list of recommended resources that is based on the information received from the identified members of the social network.

For example components of a social network service may access information received from members of a social network that identifies resources associated with a skill and generate a user interface that presents a description of one or more of the identified resources that are associated with the skill such as books events classes groups web based content and other resources.

Therefore in some example embodiments the systems and methods may leverage the vast knowledge contained within a social network service in order to identify resources that may assist a member in acquiring a skill among other benefits.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without all of the specific details.

Other advantages and aspects of the inventive subject matter will be readily apparent from the description of the figures that follows.

As shown in the computing environment includes a social network service that is generally based on a three tiered architecture consisting of a front end layer an application logic layer and a data layer . The modules systems and or engines shown in represent a set of executable software instructions and the corresponding hardware e.g. memory and processor for executing the instructions. However one skilled in the art will readily recognize that various additional functional modules and engines may be used with the social network service to facilitate additional functionality that is not specifically described herein. Furthermore the various functional modules and engines depicted in may reside on a single server computer or may be distributed across several server computers in various arrangements.

As shown in the front end layer includes a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices such as member device over a network and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client devices. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client devices may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile devices and operating systems.

The network may be any communications network utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks and so on.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases including databases for storing data for various entities of the social graph such as a member database of member profile information e.g. information identifying attributes skills and other information for members and a social graph database which may include a particular type of database that uses graph structures with nodes edges and properties to represent and store data such as social graph information. Of course in some example embodiments any number of other entities might be included in the social graph and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding with other entities.

In some example embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of a social network supported by the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title job description industry employment history skills proficiencies qualifications professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example as member profile information or data in database .

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service . A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the member being followed. In addition to following another member a user may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation a skill or some other entity which may or may not be included in the social graph.

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example in some example embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. As such a photograph may be a property or entity included within a social graph.

In some example embodiments members of a social network service may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. When a member joins a group his or her membership in the group may be reflected in the social graph information stored in the social graph database . In some example embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. Thus membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company may all be examples of the different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modelled with the social graph information of the social graph database .

The application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer . In some example some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various applications services and features of the social network service . For example a messaging application such as an email application an instant messaging application or some hybrid or variation of the two may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Similarly a search engine enabling users to search for and browse member profiles may be implemented with one or more application server modules .

In addition to the various application server modules the application logic layer also includes a resource recommendation engine that presents recommended resources in response to receiving information identifying a skill or skills such as information received from a member of the social network service that identifies a skill desired by the member. Of course other applications or services that utilize the resource recommendation engine may be separately embodied in their own application server modules .

The resource recommendation engine may perform one or more algorithmic processes that in response to receiving input information associated with and or identifying a skill e.g. an attribute a proficiency a characteristics an ability a qualification and so on identify members of the social network service that are associated with the skill e.g. members having attributes related to or associated with the skill receive recommendations for resources e.g. books events web based content and so on from the identified members and generates a list or collection of the resource recommendations which may be presented in various configurations via user interfaces provided by the social network service .

As illustrated in in some example embodiments the resource recommendation engine is implemented as a service that operates in conjunction with various application server modules . For instance any number of individual application server modules may invoke the functionality of the resource recommendation engine to include an application server module associated with receiving information from the member device and or an application server module associated with an application to facilitate the viewing of user interfaces presenting resource recommendations. However in some example embodiments the resource recommendation engine may be implemented as its own application server module such that it operates as a stand alone application or system.

In some example embodiments the resource recommendation engine may include or have an associated publicly available Application Programming Interface API that enables third party applications or other applications algorithms or scripts within the social network service to invoke the functionality of the resource recommendation engine among other things.

Thus in some example embodiments the resource recommendation engine either provided by or in collaboration with the social network service receives a skill as input leverages information stored by the social network service e.g. information stored in member database and outputs recommendations that identify resources that may be useful in assisting a member or other user or viewer to acquire the skill among other things.

As described herein in some example embodiments the resource recommendation engine presents recommendations for resources associated with a skill and identified by members of the social network. is a block diagram illustrating modules of the resource recommendation engine consistent with some embodiments.

As illustrated in the resource recommendation engine includes a variety of functional modules. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the functional modules are implemented with a combination of software e.g. executable instructions or computer code and hardware e.g. at least a memory and processor . Accordingly as used herein in some example embodiments a module is a processor implemented module and represents a computing device having a processor that is at least temporarily configured and or programmed by executable instructions stored in memory to perform one or more of the particular functions that are described herein.

Referring to the resource recommendation engine includes a skill reception module a member identification a resource reception module a recommendation module and a requestor identification module .

In some example embodiments the skill reception module is configured and or programmed to receive information identifying a skill from a member of a social network. For example the skill reception module may receive and or access information that is input by a member of the social network.

The received and or accessed input may be any type of information that identifies a skill provided to the resource recommendation engine . Examples of information identifying a skill include information identifying a job title e.g. CEO or Publisher information identifying an occupation e.g. Actor information identifying desired job tasks e.g. write source code information identifying an industry e.g. computer software or education information identifying a university or degree e.g. Master s degree in Physics information identifying a life goal a Philanthropist information identifying a proficiency e.g. Hadoop or C information identifying a qualification e.g. CPA information identifying an ability run 100 miles or build webpages combinations thereof and so on. Thus the received input may be information identifying a specific skill e.g. Hadoop or roofing and or information identifying a general or broad skill e.g. programming or carpentry among other things.

The skill reception module may also monitor activities associated with the member or connections to the member that are performed within the social network and extract the skill from the monitored activities. For example the skill reception module may monitor member profile information searches performed by members content generated and or viewed by members and so on and extract information identifying skills from the various types of monitored information.

In some example embodiments the skill reception module may identify a skill by detecting that a member is viewing a web page associated with the skill by detecting that a member interacts with a web page describing a job opportunity associated with the skill and or that a member responds to a recommendation to acquire the skill.

In some example embodiments the member identification module is configured and or programmed to identify members of the social network that are associated with the skill. For example the member identification module may identify members of the social network based on profile information e.g. attributes associated with the members of the social network based on activities e.g. posts views searches and so on performed by the members of the social network based on recommendations or endorsements of the members by other members of the social network and so on. The member identification module may query various databases of the social network service such as the member database in order to identify members associated with the skill.

Therefore the member identification module may utilize various different algorithmic processes to identify members of a social network that are associated with skill information including processes that compare attributes of the members to the skill among other things. In addition the member identification module may compute a metric of a member s expertise authority or reputation with respect to a skill.

In some example embodiments the resource reception module is configured and or programmed to receive information from the identified members of the social network that identify one or more resources associated with the skill. For example the resource reception module may present a user interface to the identified members which facilitates reception of information identifying the resources associated with the skill.

As described herein the resource recommendation engine may receive information from members that identifies various types of resources. Example resource types include books and other media e.g. video audio presentations webpages and so on classes and other instructional programs events e.g. conferences seminars programs plays concerts readings lectures and so on webpages and other online content e.g. blogs articles and so on groups and organizations instructors and mentors downloadable applications games and so on. Thus the resource reception module may receive information identifying a resource or asset that is associated with a skill and assists in a person learning about obtaining information about gaining proficiency or expertise in obtaining credentials in and or acquiring the skill or related skills among other things.

In some example embodiments the recommendation module is configured and or programmed to generate a list of recommended resources that is based on the information received from the identified members of the social network. For example the recommendation module may generate a user interface that presents information identifying the recommended resources.

As described herein the recommendation module may generate render present and or display various different configurations of resource recommendations such as ranked lists as well as various interactive and display elements that accompany the resource recommendations.

Information identifying the resource and information identifying a member of the social network that identified the resource 

Information identifying the resource information identifying a member of the social network that identified the resource and information identifying other members of the social network that have endorsed the resource 

Information identifying the resource and an actionable button that facilitates acquisition of the resource by the member of the social network and or

Information identifying the resource and an actionable element that enables viewers of the user interface to provide feedback associated with the resource.

In some example embodiments the recommendation module may apply various filters which may enable presentation of a list of resources of a single type e.g. a list of only books or events or a list containing resources of two or more types among other things.

In some cases a resource may be associated with a specific time frame. For example an event may be scheduled at a particular date and time and or technical course may be scheduled to begin on a specified date and end on a later specified date. The recommendation module may apply a temporal filter for example to exclude events scheduled in the past and or to include only events scheduled within a time range specified by the user.

In some cases a resource may be associated with other attributes that affect its suitability for a particular member. For example an event may occur in a specific location or a class may be available only to students admitted to or currently attending a specific educational institution among other things.

The recommendation module may rank and or order the resource recommendations based on a variety of different factors. For example the recommendation module may rank recommended resources based on endorsements of the resources by members of the social network and or based on attributes associated with members of the social network that identified the resources. In some example embodiments the recommendation module may assign to an endorsement of a resource by a member a weight based on a metric of the member s expertise in the relevant skill and or may assign to a resource a score based on the sum of the weights of the endorsers. The recommendation module may then generate render display and or present a user interface that presents descriptions of the recommended resources according to the rankings.

In some example embodiments a member may choose to provide negative feedback on a resource with the member s feedback contributing negatively to the score assigned to the resource. The member may provide negative feedback for various reasons such as the resource is not relevant to the skill the resource is of poor quality the resource is suspected spam or was uploaded due to abuse of the social network service the resource is no longer available the resource is not accessible at the specified URL and so on. The recommendation module may apply a filter to exclude resources that have received negative feedback and or to exclude resources having scores below a threshold. Thus the collective expertise of the member community can be used to curate the resource collection and maintain its quality and relevance over time.

In some example embodiments the requestor identification module is configured and or programmed to receive and or access information characterizing a requesting member e.g. a requestor or a member that input the skill . For example the requestor identification module may receive information identifying certain characteristics of the requesting member e.g. age location title and so on . The recommendation module in some example embodiments may then generate a list of recommended resources that is based on the information characterizing the member of the social network. For example the recommendation module may generate a list of recommended resources that includes events to be held in a location at which the requestor lives or webpages associated with people followed by the requestor among other things.

As described herein the resource recommendation engine may perform various methods in order to recommend resources associated with a skill to be acquired by a member of a social network. is a flow diagram illustrating an example method for recommending resources associated with a skill consistent with some embodiments. The method may be performed by the resource recommendation engine and accordingly is described herein merely by way of reference thereto. It will be appreciated that the method may be performed on any suitable hardware.

In operation the resource recommendation engine receives information associated with a skill from a member of a social network. For example the skill reception module may receive input identifying a skill from a member of a social network.

As described herein in some example embodiments the skill reception module may present and or receive information via a user interface configured to receive input from the member of the social network. are display diagrams illustrating user interfaces provided by the resource recommendation engine to receive information associated with a skill consistent with some embodiments.

For example depicts a user interface that is configured to receive input associated with a skill from a member of a social network or other user. The user interface includes a graphical element that includes an input box configured to receive text based input from a user that identifies a skill e.g. Hadoop and an actionable button configured to be selected by the user in order to provide the input to the resource recommendation engine .

As another example depicts a user interface that is configured to receive input associated with a skill from a member of a social network or other user. The user interface includes a graphical element that includes an input box configured to receive text based input from a user that identifies a skill e.g. programming a drop down menu that provides user selectable options such as related skills and an actionable button configured to be selected by the user in order to provide the input to the resource recommendation engine . For example the user interface may receive via the input box a information identifying a skill of programming and present via the drop down menu various user selectable options associated with the skill such as C Hadoop WordPress and so on.

Referring back to in operation the resource recommendation engine identifies members of the social network that are associated with the skill. For example the member identification module may identify members of the social network based on profile information e.g. attributes associated with the members of the social network based on activities e.g. posts views searches and so on performed by the members of the social network and so on.

In operation the resource recommendation engine receives information from the identified members of the social network that identifies one or more resources associated with the skill. For example the resource reception module may receive information identifying a book event webpage or other resources.

As described herein in some example embodiments the resource reception module may present and or receive information via a user interface configured to receive information that identifies resources from members of the social network service . is a display diagram illustrating a user interface that receives information from members of a social network that identify resources associated with a skill consistent with some embodiments.

The user interface includes various text based input boxes and or drop down menus configured to receive information associated with a resource to be recommended such as input boxes and or drop down menus that receive information associated with the name of a resource information associated with a URL or other location for the resource information associated with the type of resource information describing the resource and so on. In some example embodiments the user interface may include additional input elements that receive information associated with other attributes of a resource such as the date time and or location of an event among other things.

In some example embodiments the resource reception module may present and or receive information via a user interface displayed by or embedded within an external web site or application provided by a third party. For example the user interface may include an actionable element to associate a resource e.g. a book a class and so on provided by the third party with one or more skills. The user interface may also include input elements configured to receive other information associated with the resource.

Referring back to in operation the resource recommendation engine generates a list of recommended resources that is based on the information received from the identified members of the social network. For example the recommendation module may generate a user interface that presents information identifying the recommended resources such as one or more user interfaces that display various different configurations of resource recommendations such as ranked lists as well as various interactive and display elements that accompany the resource recommendations. are display diagrams illustrating user interfaces presenting resource recommendations consistent with some embodiments.

For example depicts a user interface that presents various resource recommendations associated with input identifying a skill of Hadoop. The recommendations include a recommendation for a book entitled The Guide to Hadoop a recommendation for an event entitled Strata Conference 2013 and a recommendation for a website entitled Apache Hadoop. 

As described herein the user interface presents information along with the presented resource recommendations such as information identifying members that provided a resource recommendation and information that identifies other members of the social network that have endorsed the resource recommendation among other things. Additionally the user interface presents actionable buttons along with the presented resource recommendations such as an actionable button associated with performing an action to obtain the resource e.g. buy a book or register for a conference and an actionable button that receives feedback from other members of the social network e.g. likes and dislikes that is associated with the relevance quality and or appropriateness of the resources.

As another example depicts a user interface that presents a filtered list of resource recommendations associated with input identifying a skill of Hadoop. The user interface includes a user selectable filter e.g. selected to show events only . Based on the filter selection the filtered list includes a recommendation for a conference entitled Strata Conference 2013 a recommendation for an event entitled Hadoop Summit 2013. The user interface also includes accompanying information and actionable buttons as described herein.

As described herein in some example embodiments the resource recommendation engine includes the requestor identification module which receives information identifying certain characteristics of a requesting member e.g. age location title and so on enabling the recommendation module to generate a list of recommended resources tuned to the requesting member among other things.

In operation the resource recommendation engine e.g. via the requestor identification module receives information characterizing a member of the social network such as information identifying an age location or other characteristics of a member requesting recommendations for resources associated with a skill to be acquired by the requesting member.

In operation the resource recommendation engine via the recommendation module identifies and or selects resources associated with the information characterizing the member of the social network such as resources associated with the age or location of the requesting member.

In operation the resource recommendation engine via the recommendation module generates a list of recommended resources that is based on the information characterizing the member of the social network. is a display diagram illustrating a user interface presenting resource recommendations based on characteristics of a requesting member consistent with some embodiments.

As shown in the user interface presents resource recommendations associated with input identifying a skill of sculpture that was received from a member located in Seattle. For example the resource recommendations include recommendations tuned to the member s location of Seattle including a recommendation for art classes in Seattle and a recommendation for a Fine Arts degree program at the University of Washington as well as other global recommendations including a recommendation for a blog on sculpture practices.

As described herein the resource recommendation engine may present sponsored resource recommendations within a list of presented resource recommendations such as by enabling corporations and other entities to sponsor a skill generic resource recommendations and so on. is a flow diagram illustrating an example method for generating a list of resource recommendations that includes sponsored content consistent with some embodiments.

In operation the resource recommendation engine e.g. via the skill reception module receives information identifying a skill. In operation the resource recommendation engine e.g. via the recommendation engine identifies resource associated with a sponsor of the skill such as a resource provided by the sponsor of the skill e.g. a book published by the sponsor or a course provided by the sponsor . In operation the resource recommendation engine e.g. via the recommendation module generates a list of recommended resources that includes description information for the resource associated with the sponsor of the skill.

For example is a display diagram illustrating a user interface presenting resource recommendations that include sponsored recommendations consistent with some embodiments. The user interface presents resource recommendations associated with input identifying a skill of Business Strategy that was received from a member of the social network including a sponsored recommendation for courses at Online University and non sponsored recommendations and for a book entitled Technology Management and web content entitled The CEO Blog respectively.

Therefore in some example embodiments the resource recommendation engine may facilitate a cost per engagement revenue model by enabling entities to sponsors various skills among other things. Thus the resource recommendation engine may access information received from members of a social network that identifies resources associated with a skill and in response to receiving a request from a requesting member of the social network to provide information about the skill generate a user interface that presents a description of one or more of the identified resources that are associated with the skill such as one or more of the user interfaces described herein.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules engines objects or devices that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules engines objects and devices referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules engines objects and or devices.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although some embodiments has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

