---

title: Arm prosthetic device
abstract: A prosthetic arm apparatus including a plurality of segments that provide a user of the prosthetic arm apparatus with substantially the same movement capability and function as a human arm. The segments are connectable to one another and connectable to a prosthetic support apparatus that may be adorned by the user. Each segment of the plurality of segments provides a portion of the movement capability, enabling the plurality of connected segments connected to the harness mount to provide substantially the same movement capability as that lacking in the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09393131&OS=09393131&RS=09393131
owner: DEKA PRODUCTS LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
number: 09393131
owner_city: Manchester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130524
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 609 filed Feb. 16 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 449 624 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 141 filed Feb. 6 2008now U.S. Pat. No. 9 114 028 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 899 833 filed Feb. 6 2007 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 963 639 filed Aug. 6 2007 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 12 706 609 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 449 624 also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 168 786 filed Apr. 13 2009 which is also hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number W911NF 09 C 0035 awarded by the U.S. Army RDECOM ACQ CTR. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present development relates to mechanical and medical devices and more particularly to prosthetic devices. More particularly the development utilizes mechanical structure and user or motor stimuli to operate a prosthesis similarly to a human limb.

Existing prosthetic arms have limited movement for the user. Further there are limited options for those patients who have lost their entire arm shoulder to hand. Also hand portions of existing prosthetic arms give the user in many instances one degree of movement. These known prosthetic devices provide limited capability with respect to amongst other things finer tasks.

Accordingly there is a need for a prosthetic arm that replaces an arm from shoulder to hand and that has increased degrees of freedom. There is also a need for a prosthetic hand that moves in a realistic manner.

It is one aspect of the present device to provide a prosthetic device that will allow the user improved range of motion improved tactile capabilities increased comfort for the user and decreased reliance on manual positioning of the prosthesis.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention the present device employs a compliant structure that incorporates a shoulder flexion joint a shoulder abduction joint a humeral rotator an elbow flexion joint a wrist rotation joint and a wrist flexion joint. The present device also discloses a hand assembly having compliance.

In accordance with one embodiment of the device the shoulder flexion joint assembly includes a motor a belt a pulley a gear train a harmonic drive gearing system a potentiometer a nonbackdriving clutch and a compliance sensor. The electrically driven motor rotor drives the belt that is defined by two pulleys. The first pulley is driven by the motor rotor. The second pulley is driven by the belt and engages the harmonic drive gearing system. The harmonic drive gearing system has an interior wave generator that corresponds with the flexible spline. The spline in turn engages the exterior circular spline resulting in drastic reduction rates and driving the shoulder output flange allowing the shoulder joint flexion movement.

In accordance with another aspect of the shoulder flexion joint the joint assembly also discloses a clutch. The clutch has an input cage an output hex and a clutch race or ground. When the shoulder flexion joint is acted upon by an output force the output hex is engaged in a friction lock with the clutch race and bearings lining the exterior of the output hex preventing backward transfer of power through the clutch.

In accordance with another aspect of the shoulder flexion joint the joint assembly also discloses a shoulder compliance sensor. The sensor provides the shoulder flexion joint with measured compliance. The sensor utilizes the interior rim of the circular spline of the harmonic drive gearing system. The exterior rim of the circular spline additionally accommodates stationary reactor elements and series elastic elements. The circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements are circumferentially disposed around the interior of a clamp. Together the clamp and a compliance reactor substantially enclose the circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements. The clamp and compliance reactor remain stationary while the circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements are rotatably disposed around the exterior rim of the spline. Additionally a magnet is disposed on the exterior rim of the circular spline for measuring compliance. Upon application of force the position of the circular spline alters causing the series elastic elements to compress against the reactor elements. The movement of the reactor elements transmits the rotational displacement of the circular spline via the reactor movement in relation to the stationary magnet. In this manner the compliance is built into the shoulder flexion joint and works to absorb energy when the joint is subjected to a load or an unexpected shock.

In accordance with the shoulder abduction joint the joint features a shoulder flexion mount. The shoulder flexion joint fastens to the shoulder flexion mount. The abductor also discloses a harness mount.

The humeral rotator may feature a harmonic drive gearing system a motor a motor armature a potentiometer and a humeral mount. The support structure of the humeral rotator has a humeral mount site at the output of the rotator. The motor drives the motor armature which in turn drives the wave generator of the harmonic drive gearing system. The wave generator drives the interior flexible spline which in turn interacts with the outer circular spline. The circular spline then drives the rotational movement of the humeral rotator.

In further accordance with an aspect of the humeral rotation site the potentiometer features a position potentiometer and a potentiometer shaft for position measurement.

In accordance with another embodiment of the device the elbow flexion joint is further comprised of a motor armature a motor rotor a motor rotor magnet integrated into the motor rotor a sun gear also integrated into the motor rotor a plurality of planet gears a ring gear a harmonic drive gearing system and a potentiometer.

In accordance with another aspect of the elbow flexion joint the motor armature applies electrical force to the motor rotor magnet integrated onto the surface of the motor rotor. The motor rotor in turn rotationally drives the sun gear also integrated on the motor rotor. The sun gear rotationally drives the four planet gears. The planet gears in turn react against the stationary ring gear to effect rotation of the carrier plate providing the first stage of reduction.

In accordance with a further aspect of the elbow flexion joint the carrier plate drives the harmonic drive gearing system wave generator. The harmonic drive gearing system has an interior wave generator that corresponds with the flexible spline. The spline in turn engages the exterior circular spline resulting in drastic reduction rates and driving the elbow output allowing the elbow flexion joint movement.

In accordance with a further aspect of the elbow flexion joint the elbow flexion joint also discloses a compliance sensor. The sensor provides the elbow flexion joint with measured compliance. The sensor utilizes the interior rim of the circular spline of the harmonic drive gearing system. The exterior rim of the circular spline additionally accommodates stationary reactor elements and series elastic elements. The circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements are circumferentially disposed around the interior of a clamp. Together the clamp and a compliance reactor substantially enclose the circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements. The clamp and compliance reactor remain stationary while the circular spline series elastic elements and reactor elements are rotatably disposed around the exterior rim of the spline. Additionally a magnet is disposed on the exterior rim of the circular spline. Upon application of force the position of the circular spline alters causing the series elastic elements to compress against the reactor elements. The movement of the reactor elements transmits the rotational displacement of the circular spline via the reactor movement in relation to the stationary magnet. In this manner the compliance is built into the elbow flexion joint and works to absorb energy when the joint is subjected to a load or an unexpected shock.

The wrist rotation site features a harmonic drive gearing system a motor a motor armature and a potentiometer. The motor drives the motor armature which in turn drives the wave generator of the harmonic drive gearing system. The wave generator drives the interior flexible spline which in turn interacts with the outer circular spline. The circular spline then drives the rotational movement of the wrist rotator.

In further accordance with an aspect of the wrist rotation site the potentiometer features a position potentiometer and a potentiometer shaft for position measurement.

The wrist flexion joint is further comprised of a motor an output arm a gear train and series elastic elements. The wrist flexion joint is driven by a motor that in turn drives the gear train. A final stage driven gear transfers power to the output arm. The output arm connects to the main wrist flexion joint by a pivot axle.

In further accordance with an aspect of the wrist flexion joint the output arm contains series elastic elements a compliance sensor magnet and a drive arm. The exterior casing of the output arm encloses the drive arm which features at one end of the arm an opening defined to accept the pivot axle. The opposing end of the arm may include a compliance magnetic sensor for compliance sensing. Disposed laterally at either side of the drive arm is a series elastic element.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device the hand assembly is comprised of structures replicating a thumb an index finger and the grouping of the middle ring and pinky fingers. The thumb structure is driven by two parallel actuators that provide the structure with two inputs and two outputs. The two parallel actuators give the thumb structure opposition movement with the index finger and lateral movement. The two actuators are connected in parallel and fixed to the interior structure of the hand assembly. The thumb structure also features a flexural element separating the base of the thumb structure from the load bearing portion of the structure. The base portion of the structure houses a sensor measuring the displacement of the loaded portion of the thumb relative to the thumb structure rest position. The load bearing portion of the thumb structure contains a magnet whose displacement the sensor measures. In one embodiment of the thumb structure the flexural structure is provided by linear flexural elements. Another embodiment of the thumb structure provides for spiral flexural elements. The sensor measuring displacement allows a calculation of the compliance to the thumb in both directions. The measured compliance allows continuous measurement of the force applied to the thumb structure in both directions.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device the index finger structure of the hand assembly contains a rotating element at the base of the index finger that drives the motion of the finger. The index finger structure may be comprised of three joints. First a base joint that is connected to the rotating element. The base joint supports the lower phalanx structure. The lower phalanx structure terminates at the middle joint. The middle joint then supports the middle phalanx structure. The middle phalanx structure terminates at the farthest joint. The farthest joint then supports the upper phalanx structure. In some embodiments the index finger structure may include only two joints with the middle phalanx structure and the upper phalanx structure being combined into a single integrated phalanx structure.

In further accordance with the present device the index finger structure and its integrated phalanx structures are kinematically determinate based on the rotation of the base element. When driven by the rotating element the index finger structure is constrained to follow a set trajectory enabling precise dexterity of index finger movement. In this way the user can rely on the fixed trajectory of the index finger to perform fine tasks such as pinching or retrieving small objects. In another embodiment of the index finger the middle phalanx structure is fixedly joined to the upper phalanx structure.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device the middle ring and pinky finger structures MRP structures are integrated into the hand assembly. Each of the three structures originates with a base joint supporting a lower phalanx structure. Each lower phalanx structure terminates at a middle joint. Each middle joint then supports a middle phalanx structure. Each middle phalanx joint terminates at a farthest joint. Each farthest joint then supports an upper phalanx structure.

Each individual MRP structure features an indeterminate linkage between the base joint and middle joint and a deterministic linkage between the middle joint and farthest joint. As a result the base and middle joints of the individual finger structures will continue to operate until the joint motion is impeded. During a grasping action the middle phalanx structure will continue to operate even if the base phalanx structure is impeded by the object being grasped. This indeterminate linkage assists in creating a conforming grasp for the hand structure and is enabled by the double differential of the MRP transmissions.

Additionally the MRP structures have indeterminate gear sets allowing the three structures to move separately in order to grasp or conform around an obstacle. Two differential gear sets incorporated into the hand assembly structure drive the MRP structures. The first differential gear is driven by the actuator and has outputs at the rotating element of one finger structure and at the input of the second differential gear. The second differential gear has outputs at the rotating elements of the remaining fingers. As one actuator drives all three MRP structures separately the MRP structures are linked and under actuated. As a result of the differential gear assembly if one MRP structure encounters an obstacle it will stop but the other MRP structures will still move freely until they encounter an obstacle.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device a non backdriveable clutch controls the reaction of the thumb structure the index finger structure and the linked MRP structures to the application of an output load. This embodiment of the clutch provides that any output torque on the hand assembly will result in a friction lock of the clutch. In this embodiment the output hex of the clutch locks against the input spline and the bearings disposed between the output and input. Further this embodiment of the clutch provides that upon sufficient input torque the clutch unlocks and allows additional input movement without the user having to manually reset the hand assembly.

In accordance with another aspect of the present device a planetary gear stage transfers torque from the actuator to the output stage. The actuator drives the planetary stage s ring gear which through interaction with the planet gears drives the planet s carrier which then drives the output stage. The sun gear is attached through a spring to ground. Any torque applied to the planetary stage will cause a displacement of the sun gear until the torque is balanced by the displacement of the spring. Thus the spring stores elastic energy and increases the compliance of the index structure. The use of the spring attached to the sun gear allows measurement of load on the structures without the addition of a load cell.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present device a stage driver and timing belt transfer torque to the index finger structure and the MRP structures. The stage driver transfers the torque to the timing belt loosening one side of the timing belt and tightening the opposite side. In further accordance with the current device a tensioner positioned between the stage driver and its corresponding pulley displaces as the tension of the timing belt changes. The tensioner displacement stores energy. Inference of the load applied to the structure can be based upon that displacement. The use of this tensioner allows measurement of load on the structures without the addition of a load cell. The tensioner additionally stores elastic energy and increases the compliance of the structures.

These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when read in conjunction with the appended claims and accompanying drawings.

Referring to a prosthetic arm apparatus for attachment to a shoulder of a shoulder disarticulated amputee includes a plurality of segments including a shoulder abductor a shoulder flexion assembly a humeral rotator an elbow flexion assembly a wrist rotator a wrist flexion assembly and a hand assembly . The prosthetic arm apparatus in the exemplary embodiment has the dimensions and weight of a female arm of a fiftieth percentile so that many different users may comfortably use the prosthetic arm apparatus . As should be understood by those skilled in the art the prosthetic arm apparatus may be constructed to larger or smaller dimensions if desired. The prosthetic arm apparatus may be controlled by a control system not shown such as the various control systems described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 116 filed Feb. 6 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 821 587 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 575 filed Feb. 16 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 864 845 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 471 filed Feb. 16 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 453 340 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring to one embodiment of the shoulder abductor is shown. The shoulder abductor includes a harness mount for connecting the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in to a support apparatus as the various prosthetic supports described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 026 971 filed Feb. 6 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 870 970 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 340 filed Feb. 16 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 074 559 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The harness mount has harness interface holes that may be used to attach the abductor to a prosthetic harness not shown or other system for supporting the prosthetic arm apparatus . In the exemplary embodiment the harness or prosthetic support apparatus may also be one disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 026 971 filed Feb. 6 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 870 970 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring to the shoulder abductor also has a shoulder flexion assembly mount shown according to one embodiment. The shoulder flexion assembly mount interfaces with the shoulder flexion assembly to mount the shoulder flexion assembly onto the shoulder abductor . In one embodiment the flexion assembly mount has interface holes to facilitate connection of the shoulder flexion assembly by attachment means such as bolts.

Referring to the shoulder abductor further includes an abductor joint shown according to one embodiment. The abductor joint is used to pivot the shoulder flexion assembly mount away from the harness mount and back toward the harness mount .

Referring to the shoulder abductor includes an abductor motor to control the pivotal movement of the abductor joint shown in both the shoulder abductor and abductor motor shown according to one embodiment. In this embodiment the abductor motor is a brushed DC motor controlling the pivotal movement through an abductor belt connected to a worm drive driving a worm wheel connected to an abductor harmonic drive gearing system .

Referring to the shoulder flexion assembly in one embodiment has a main shoulder housing with an abductor interface for connecting the shoulder flexion assembly to the shoulder abductor . The shoulder flexion assembly also has a humeral interface for connecting the humeral rotator to the shoulder flexion assembly .

Referring to in one embodiment shoulder flexion motor magnets are disposed around a shaft of a shoulder flexion motor rotor . In this embodiment a shoulder flexion motor armature drives the shoulder flexion motor rotor which in turn drives a shoulder flexion motor pulley around a motor shaft . The shoulder flexion motor pulley supports a shoulder flexion belt which is linked between the shoulder flexion motor pulley and a shoulder flexion belt driven pulley . The shoulder flexion belt driven pulley drives a shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system wave generator . A shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system flexspline rotates against the shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system wave generator and a shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline resulting in reduced speed for the joint movement. The shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system flexspline is connected to the abductor interface and is thus able to rotate the shoulder flexion assembly in reference to the abductor interface.

Referring to in one embodiment a non backdriving clutch is disposed inside the main shoulder housing . The non backdriving clutch allows the prosthetic arm to hold position by locking when the prosthetic arm is not moving.

Referring to and in one embodiment roller bearings line the interface between an input cage and an output hex . When a force is applied to the shoulder abductor interface the output hex locks against the bearing race and the roller bearings . This prevents the shoulder flexion assembly from moving due to force applied to its output shoulder abductor interface . Upon the exertion of a necessary amount of input force through the clutch input cage the output hex disengages and allows the shoulder flexion assembly to move. The clutch input cage and the output hex are both constrained by a clutch race . It should be understood by those skilled in the art that other mechanisms could be used to prevent backdriving of the prosthetic arm such as a clutch that locks in one direction or a solenoid with brakes that engage when the solenoid is powered. Additionally although described in connection with the shoulder flexion assembly it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the non backdriving clutch may be included in other prosthetic joints described herein.

Referring to in one embodiment a compliance subassembly shown in includes a compliance reactor positioned on top of the shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline shown in and held in place by the clamp . The compliance reactor measures the amount of displacement in the compliance subassembly in relation to the position of a compliance sensor magnet .

Referring to in one embodiment the interior of compliance subassembly includes series elastic elements . The shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline defines the interior of the compliance subassembly and is formed to accommodate the placement of the series elastic elements around an outer diameter of the shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline . The series elastic elements are confined by the shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline and the clamp .

Referring to the placement of the compliance reactor in relation to the series elastic elements and reactor elements is shown. In this embodiment three reactor elements are positioned around the compliance reactor equidistant to each other. One series elastic element is placed on either side of each reactor element . When the shoulder flexion assembly is subjected to unexpected force such as a sudden jolt or impact the compliance reactor and reactor elements displace from their rest positions and compress against the series elastic elements . In that way the compliance subassembly attenuates the shock being transferred to the rest of the shoulder flexion assembly . The compliance reactor may also measure the amount of displacement and compliance by measuring the movement of the compliance reactor in relation to the stationary position of the compliance sensor magnet .

Referring to one embodiment of the humeral rotator is shown. The humeral rotator includes an outer bearing carrier attached to the first control housing shown in . The first control housing shown in is used to connect the humeral rotator to the shoulder flexion assembly . The inner rotational elements of the humeral rotator are held in place by a clamp which is fastened to the outer bearing carrier . A humeral mount passes through the clamp and includes an elbow interface for attaching the elbow flexion assembly to the humeral rotator .

Still referring to the one embodiment a humeral potentiometer of the humeral rotator measures the rotational displacement of a humeral potentiometer shaft that rotates proportionately to the humeral mount .

Referring to the elbow flexion assembly includes an elbow joint and a radial mount . The elbow joint includes a slot into which the elbow interface of the humeral rotator is inserted to facilitate connection of the elbow flexion assembly to the humeral rotator . The radial mount provides a second electronics housing in which an ACM stack is located. ACM as used herein refers to Arm Control Module. The radial mount includes a wrist interface for attachment of the wrist rotator .

Referring to the elbow joint includes an elbow motor armature that drives an elbow motor rotor . Elbow magnets are disposed at one end of the motor rotor and the opposing end of the motor rotor has a sun gear . As the motor armature drives the sun gear the sun gear in turn drives four planetary gears positioned equidistant from each other around the sun gear . The four planetary gears in turn react against a ring gear giving the elbow flexion assembly a first stage of speed reduction through an elbow harmonic drive gearing system wave generator which also acts as the planet carrier. The elbow harmonic drive gearing system wave generator powers the elbow harmonic drive gearing system flexspline which drives against the elbow harmonic drive gearing system circular spline giving the elbow flexion assembly a second stage of reduction. The elbow harmonic drive gearing system flexspline then drives the motion of the elbow flexion assembly . Bearings and crossed roller bearings support the outer perimeter of the elbow flexion assembly . Although described with both a planetary gear system and an elbow harmonic drive gearing system the elbow flexion assembly could be controlled solely by a harmonic drive gearing system by changing the gear reduction ratio.

In various embodiments it may be desirable to avoid having to perform additional measurement by using the measurement in the compliance process. One example includes in various embodiments where the planetary gears may be used for compliance and measurement of load.

Referring to in the embodiment shown the radial mount is structurally fixed to the elbow joint such that when the elbow joint is actuated the radial mount moves.

Referring to an elbow compliance subassembly is incorporated into the elbow flexion assembly . A plurality of arms extends from the center portion of the elbow compliance subassembly . Each arm has an elbow series elastic element disposed on either side of the am . Similar to the shoulder flexion assembly if the elbow flexion assembly is subject to a torque the elbow compliance subassembly with its series elastic elements is capable of absorbing the shock attenuating the torque magnitude through the rest of the elbow flexion assembly .

Referring to the ACM stack includes circuit boards connected to one another by structural standoffs . The structural standoffs are constructed of a conductive material so that electrical power may be passed through the circuit boards . The structural standoffs allow power to be supplied to each circuit board without conventional power connections.

Referring to the wrist rotator includes a wrist outer bearing carrier a wrist clamp a wrist potentiometer an elbow interface and a wrist flexion assembly interface .

Referring to movement of the wrist rotator is controlled by a harmonic drive gearing system similar to that described for the humeral rotator. A wrist rotator motor armature drives a wrist rotator motor rotor having wrist rotator magnets disposed to its surface. The lower portion of the wrist rotator motor rotor integrates a wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system wave generator . A wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system flexspline rotates with the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system wave generator against a wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system circular spline resulting in reduction in the speed of rotation as the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system flexspline causes the wrist flexion assembly interface to move with respect to the rest of the wrist rotator . Bearings support the wrist rotator motor rotor . Bearings support the harmonic drive gearing system components and .

Still referring to the wrist potentiometer of the wrist rotator is disposed at one end of a wrist shaft and measures the rotational displacement thereof. The wrist shaft may be tubular having an electronics channel for passing electronic power and controls through the wrist rotator .

Referring to the wrist flexion assembly includes hand control module circuit boards an input support structure an output arm and a hand interface . The input support structure connects the wrist rotator with the wrist flexion assembly . The output arm has positive and negative flexion such that the output arm is able to move in two opposite directions in reference to the support structure . The hand interface allows the hand assembly to be connected to the wrist flexion assembly . Referring to the wrist flexion assembly has wrist electrical connections for supplying power to a wrist flexion motor .

Referring to in the embodiment shown the wrist flexion motor drives a wrist flexion output gear which in turn drives a wrist flexion final stage driven gear . A wrist flexion pivot axle of the output arm is axially disposed inside an opening defined by the interior of the wrist flexion final stage driven gear . Wrist flexion series elastic elements are disposed in the interior of the output arm . Movement of the wrist flexion final stage driven gear facilitates the positive and negative motion of the output arm . A non backdriving clutch is disposed at one end of the wrist flexion output gear .

Referring to the output arm has a wrist flexion drive arm which is driven by the wrist flexion final stage driven gear . The end of the wrist flexion drive arm accommodates a wrist flexion compliance sensor magnet . The wrist flexion series elastic elements are disposed on either side of the wrist flexion drive arm and the wrist flexion series elastic elements and the drive arm are substantially enclosed within the output arm . Similar to the elbow flexion assembly and the shoulder flexion assembly if the wrist flexion assembly is subjected to a force the wrist flexion drive arm compresses the wrist flexion series elastic elements and attenuates the force or impact through the rest of the wrist flexion assembly .

The following is a description of one embodiment of the hand assembly. Other embodiments of the hand assembly are described and shown elsewhere in this specification. Referring to the hand assembly includes a hand support for providing an interface for connecting the hand assembly to the wrist flexion output arm . The hand assembly also includes a thumb structure an index finger structure and an MRP structure replicating a middle finger a ring finger and a pinky finger . In various embodiments the thumb structure may be driven by two thumb drives that feed into a single differential giving the thumb structure two degrees of freedom of movement. The index finger structure may be driven by a single index drive and the MRP structure may be driven by a single MRP drive that feeds a double differential. The MRP approach allows for an indeterminate versus determinate linkage.

Referring to the index finger structure not shown is driven by the index drive through an index drive pulley an index tensioner an index tension belt and an index finger pulley . The index drive pulley is stage driven and transfers the torque to the index tension belt which in turn rotates the index finger pulley causing the index finger structure to move. As the index tension belt transfers the torque one side of the index tension belt tightens and the other side loosens depending on which direction the index drive pulley is rotated. The index tensioner is located between the index drive pulley and the index finger pulley and the index tensioner displaces in relation to the change in load to maintain the tension of the index tension belt . The index tensioner has one side grounded and the other side capable of displacement upon the application of a load. The index tensioner may instead ground the moveable side of the index tensioner with a spring.

Referring to in another embodiment the index finger structure is driven through an index sun shaft a set of index planets an index planet carrier an index ring gear and an index drive gear . The index drive drives the index ring gear turning the index planets the turning of which causes the index planet carrier to rotate. The index drive gear is driven by the external teeth of the index planet carrier causing the index structure to move. Any torque transmitted by the index planet carrier will react against the index sun shaft causing it to rotationally displace the index spring through the index spring mount . This rotational displacement sensed by an index potentiometer can be used to infer the load on the index finger structure . This rotational displacement may be used to store elastic energy and to provide the index finger structure with a measure of compliance that may aid in gripping and with load absorption.

Referring to the thumb structure is mounted on a thumb support which is driven by the two thumb differential drives . The thumb structure has flexural cuts at its base allowing the compliant thumb structure to move when a load is applied to it. This compliance in the thumb structure may aid in gripping and with load absorption which may prevent the hand assembly from damaging objects not shown by closing around them too quickly and forcefully.

Referring to the hand assembly includes an MRP drive pulley driven by the MRP drive not shown . The MRP drive pulley is connected through an MRP tension belt to the MRP pulley enabling movement of the MRP structure . The MRP drive pulley is stage driven and transfers the load to the MRP tension belt which in turn rotates the linked MRP structure via the MRP pulley . As the MRP tension belt transfers torque one side of the MRP tension belt tightens as the other side loosens. An MRP tensioner located at one side of the MRP tension belt displaces in relation to the change in load to maintain the tension of the MRP tension belt . This also provides the MRP structure with compliance to aid in gripping and with load absorption which may prevent the hand assembly from damaging objects not shown by closing around the objects not shown too quickly and forcefully.

Referring to in another embodiment the MRP finger structures are driven through an MRP sun shaft a set of MRP planets an MRP planet carrier an MRP ring gear and an MRP drive gear . The MRP drive drives the MRP ring gear turning the MRP planets the turning of which causes the MRP planet carrier to rotate. The MRP drive gear is driven by the external teeth of the MRP planet carrier causing the MRP structures to move. Any torque transmitted by the MRP planet carrier will react against the MRP sun shaft causing it to rotationally displace the MRP spring through the MRP spring mount . This rotational displacement can be used to store elastic energy.

Referring to the MRP differential drive includes a main MRP drive gear . The MRP drive gear drives a first MRP input axle . The first MRP input axle drives a first differential idler gear which optionally drives a middle spur gear or a differential interface gear . The middle spur gear drives a middle pivot axle . The middle finger is mounted on the middle pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP differential drive . The differential interface gear drives a second MRP input axle . The second MRP input axle drives a second differential idler gear which optionally drives a ring spur gear or a pinky spur gear . The ring spur gear drives a ring pivot axle . The ring finger is mounted on the ring pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP differential drive . The pinky spur gear drives a pinky pivot axle . The pinky finger is mounted on the pinky pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . While the MRP drive drives the middle finger the ring finger and the pinky finger the gear configuration of the first input axle and the second input axle allows independent movement for the under actuated finger gear system of the MRP structures .

Referring to in another embodiment of the hand the MRP differential drive includes an MRP drive gear which drives a double differential allowing the MRP fingers to conformably wrap around an object. The MRP drive gear drives a first MRP input axle . The first input axle drives a first differential idler gear which optionally drives a middle spur gear or a differential interface gear . The middle spur gear drives a middle pivot axle . The middle finger is mounted on the middle pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . The differential interface gear drives a second MRP input axle . The second MRP input axle drives a second differential idler gear which optionally drives a ring spur gear or a pinky spur gear . The ring spur gear drives a ring pivot axle . The ring finger is mounted on the ring pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . The pinky spur gear drives a pinky pivot axle . The pinky finger is mounted on the pinky pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . While the MRP drive drives the middle finger the ring finger and the pinky finger the gear configuration of the first input axle and the second input axle allows independent movement for the under actuated finger gear system of the MRP structures .

Referring to the thumb differential drives control the movement of the thumb structure and are driven by thumb actuators . The thumb actuators have nonbackdriving thumb clutches to prevent output loads from reaching and backdriving the thumb actuators. One thumb actuator drives a first thumb output drive and a first thumb output gear . The first thumb output gear in turn drives a first thumb transfer gear which drives a fixed differential shaft . The fixed differential shaft drives one thumb differential bevel gear . The second thumb actuator drives a second thumb output drive and a second thumb output gear . The second thumb output gear drives a second thumb transfer gear which drives a thumb differential bevel gear . The two thumb differential bevel gears and operate the thumb structure in its two degrees of motion.

The thumb structure the index finger structure and MRP structure in one embodiment are covered in silicone which provides additional friction and aids in gripping objects. In some embodiments the entire hand assembly may also be covered in silicone to provide additional grip for holding objects. In other embodiments the silicone material may be replaced by other compliant materials.

The hand assembly is advantageous because the thumb structure index finger structure and MRP structure provide various degrees of freedom that allow the formation of various grasps or grips. Additionally the different drives for each of the thumb structure index finger structure and MRP structure provide various beneficial characteristics to the hand assembly . For instance the thumb structure moves relatively slow but with greater force than the index finger structure and MRP structure . The index finger structure moves quickly but with less force and is non backdrivable. This combination of thumb structure movement and index finger structure movement allow the quick formation of strong hand grips. Additionally the combination allows for a smaller index finger actuator which reduces size and weight of the hand assembly . Additionally the index finger structure and MRP structure move similar to human fingers which makes them look more natural and makes them more intuitive for the user to control. The MRP structure provides only bulk control for gripping objects without providing for individual finger manipulation since fine control is not necessary for the MRP structure . Additionally the MRP structure advantageously moves each finger of the MRP structure with a single actuator eliminating excessive bulk in the hand assembly . Like the index finger structure the MRP structure moves quickly with low force but is also non backdrivable. Additionally the fingers of the MRP structure are highly flexible allowing them to grip objects of varying size and shape. The MRP structure functionality allows the user to grasp an object with the MRP structure and thumb structure while allowing the user to move the index finger structure separately for example to activate a button on the object.

The various parts of the prosthetic arm apparatus are in some embodiments constructed from plastic or magnesium. However where more strength is desired the parts may be made of aluminum titanium or steel. In other embodiments the various parts of the prosthetic arm may be constructed of other metals or plastics depending on the desired characteristics including strength weight compliance or other similar performance characteristics of the various parts.

Referring to a tactile feedback sensor may be positioned on the inner side of the thumb structure . The tactile feedback sensor may be a pressure sensor force sensor a displacement sensor or other similar sensor capable of providing the user with feedback. Referring to the tactile feedback sensor is operatively connected to a feedback actuator . The tactile feedback sensor may be connected to the feedback actuator by either wires or wirelessly. In operation as the user grips an object with the hand assembly feedback sensor reads the displacement of or the force exerted on the thumb structure . That reading is then sent to the feedback actuator which gives the user tactile feedback that indicates the strength of the grip. Feedback actuator may be placed on the chest of the user located on a prosthetic support apparatus in an area of tactile communication with the user or in any other location capable of receiving tactile feedback such as on a user s residuum . Referring to the feedback actuator may be located on a foot controller that is used to control hand assembly .

Feedback actuator may be a vibration motor such as any vibration motor known in the art placed against the skin of the user. As the user grips an object feedback actuator begins vibrating notifying the user how strong the object is being gripped. As the force on or displacement of the tactile feedback sensor changes frequency and or amplitude of vibration may also change notifying the amputee of a changing grip. For example if a vibrating actuator is placed at the chest of the user as in the user will feel the vibration at his chest.

The feedback actuator may also be placed wherever the controller for the hand assembly is located. For example if a foot controller controls the hand assembly the feedback actuator may be incorporated into the foot controller . The user will then receive tactile feedback of the strength of the prosthetic grip at the same location where the controller is located.

The actuator may also be a pressure actuator that applies pressure against the user s skin. For example the actuator may have a rod that increases pressure against the amputee s skin as the hand assembly increases its grip on an object.

Although described with a single tactile feedback sensor additional tactile feedback sensors may be placed at other locations on the hand assembly . For example additional tactile feedback sensors may be placed on the index finger structure the MRP structures on the palm of the hand assembly or on any combination of these positions or any other location. Each tactile feedback sensor would then be operatively connected to an associated feedback actuator . Multiple tactile feedback sensors and actuators would provide more sophisticated tactile feedback of the strength of the grip improving the control of the hand assembly .

In some embodiments the tactile feedback sensor may indicate a change in pressure or force rather than an absolute pressure or force. For example if the force detected by the tactile feedback sensor is constant the feedback actuator does not actuate but if that pressure or force increases or decreases the actuator would actuate to indicate the change in pressure or force. Additionally although described in terms of grip strength the tactile feedback sensors and actuators may provide a variety of other feedback in including temperature an operational mode of the prosthetic arm surface finish of a object slip of an object within the hand assembly or the like.

In operation the prosthetic arm apparatus is able to move substantially similar to a human arm. Referring to starting with the hand assembly the thumb structure index finger structure and MRP structure are each driven independent of the others and therefore each may be actuated without actuating the other two structures. Both of the thumb actuators control motion of the thumb structure in a direction toward or away from the center of the palm of the hand assembly as shown in through the miter gear and in a direction toward or away from the side of the palm of the hand assembly as shown in through the lateral rotation shaft depending upon the direction and speed of rotation of each thumb actuator . Thus the thumb actuators shown in provide the thumb structure with two degrees of freedom in the thumb structure s movement. Coupling the two thumb actuators through the differential described above to provide the two degrees of freedom to the thumb structure is advantageous over providing a single degree of freedom with each actuator because the torque of each actuator through the differential is used for movement in both degrees of freedom which effectively doubles the torque of the thumb in each direction as compared to single actuators. The index finger structure driven by a single index differential drive may be actuated with two degrees of freedom. Specifically the index finger structure may be actuated toward or away from the palm of the hand assembly wherein the movement path is similar to that of a human index finger while making or releasing a fist. The middle finger ring finger and pinky finger of the MRP structure are actuated by the MRP differential drive . Additionally the middle finger ring finger and pinky finger are actuated toward or away from the palm of the hand assembly similar to the index finger structure . However the middle finger ring finger and pinky finger are each geared separately such that the rate of movement of each is different simulating human finger movement and making the hand assembly more similar to a human hand than conventional prior art prosthetic devices.

Referring to the hand assembly is mounted on the wrist flexion assembly via the hand interface as shown in . Referring to as the output arm of the wrist flexion assembly is actuated the hand assembly is also caused to move. The output arm of the wrist flexion assembly may be actuated pivotally about wrist flexion pivot axle as shown in moving the hand interface to the left or right and thus pivoting the hand assembly in relation to the input support structure .

Referring back to the wrist flexion assembly is attached to the wrist rotator via wrist flexion assembly interface shown in . Referring to when actuated the wrist flexion assembly interface is rotated about wrist shaft in relation to the wrist outer bearing carrier . Therefore the wrist flexion assembly and attached hand assembly are also caused to rotate in reference to the wrist outer bearing carrier by actuation of the wrist rotator . Therefore the wrist rotator allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to move in rotation similar to a human wrist joint.

Referring back to the wrist rotator is attached to the elbow flexion assembly via the wrist interface shown in . Referring to when the elbow flexion assembly is actuated the radial mount is rotated about the axis of motor rotor . The wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are thus also caused to rotate about the axis of motor rotor because they are attached at the wrist interface to the radial mount . Therefore the elbow flexion joint allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to move similar to flexion extension of a human elbow joint.

Referring back to the elbow flexion assembly is attached to the humeral rotator via the humeral mount shown in . Referring to actuation of the humeral rotator causes the humeral mount to rotate in relation to the outer bearing carrier of the humeral rotator . Since the elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to the humeral mount they are also caused to rotate in relation to the outer bearing carrier . This allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to rotate to perform an arm wrestling motion.

Referring back to the humeral rotator is attached to the shoulder flexion assembly through the humeral interface shown in . Referring to actuation of the shoulder flexion assembly causes the main shoulder housing to pivot about the center of the abductor interface . Since the humeral rotator elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to the main housing they are also caused to rotate in relation to the abductor interface . Therefore the shoulder flexion assembly allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to move along the torso simulating running motion.

Referring to the shoulder flexion joint is attached to the shoulder abductor through the shoulder flexion assembly mount shown in . Referring to the shoulder abductor is attached to a harness that is worn by the user via harness mount . When the shoulder abductor is actuated in a positive direction the shoulder flexion assembly mount pivots away from the harness mount and the user. Similarly by actuating the shoulder abductor in a negative direction the shoulder flexion assembly mount is pivoted toward the harness mount and the user. Since the shoulder flexion assembly humeral rotator elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to shoulder abductor at the flexion assembly mount they are also caused to pivot with the shoulder flexion assembly mount .

One characteristic of the prosthetic arm apparatus described herein is that it provides the user with substantially the same movement capabilities and degrees of freedom of a human arm including two degrees of freedom in shoulder functionality. Additionally the modularity of each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus provides a significant advantage over conventional prosthetic devices. In particular since each segment of the plurality of segments operates independently of each other segment of the plurality of segments fewer segments may be used for less severe amputees. For example a transhumeral amputee may have full shoulder functionality in the residuum in which case the shoulder abductor and shoulder flexion assembly segments would be omitted from the prosthetic arm apparatus . The resulting prosthetic arm apparatus would include the humeral rotator the elbow flexion assembly the wrist rotator the wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly wherein the humeral rotator would be attached to the prosthetic harness. In some cases the residuum of the transhumeral amputee may even have humeral rotation in which case the prosthetic arm apparatus may be further simplified to include only the elbow flexion assembly the wrist rotator the wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly with the elbow flexion assembly being attached to the prosthetic support apparatus. Similarly for a transradial amputee the prosthetic arm apparatus may include only the wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly with the wrist rotator being attached to the prosthetic support apparatus. Additionally in some embodiments the prosthetic arm apparatus may be further simplified to include only the wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly when the transradial amputee has wrist rotation in their residuum. In these embodiments the wrist flexion assembly may be attached to the prosthetic support apparatus. Thus the modularity of each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus advantageously allows for customization of different prosthetic arm configurations for various users based on the differing degrees of amputation of each user.

A further advantage of the present invention is the use of non backdriving clutches to preclude movement of the segments due to forces exerted on the prosthetic arm apparatus when not in motion. These non backdriving clutches may be particularly beneficial when the segments of the prosthetic arm apparatus have different strength capacities so that the clutches for specific segments of the prosthetic arm apparatus may lock those segments while other stronger segments are actuated to lift heavy objects. For instance the non backdriving clutch in the shoulder flexion assembly may be used to lock out shoulder movement while the elbow flexion assembly is actuated to lift a heavy object. The non backdriving clutches may also advantageously conserve power since the non backdriving clutches prevent motion without using power. Thus the power to specific segments of the prosthetic arm apparatus may be shut off on a segment by segment basis when not in use since the non backdriving clutches in those segments are locking out motion. Additionally the non backdriving clutches may also save power by allowing power to the entire prosthetic arm apparatus to turned off whenever the arm is not in motion while maintaining the prosthetic arm apparatus in a locked position.

An additional characteristic of the apparatus is that the hand assembly includes independently moving fingers and is capable of completing fine tasks such as pinching grasping non uniform objects and lifting small objects off flat surfaces. Also the tactile feedback sensor provides the user with feedback during use of the prosthetic arm apparatus such as the force of a grip. The apparatus also includes a cosmesis covering on the finger structures which will be discussed in greater detail below providing amongst other things grip for grasping objects. The rigid fingernail shown in which may be included on any of the finger structures provides a backstop for the finger cover to enhance gripping capability. The rigid fingernail also enhances gripping capability by anchoring the finger cover to the finger and allows the user to lift small objects from a surface with the prosthetic arm apparatus .

Referring to wherein like numerals represent like elements in some embodiments the shoulder abductor and the shoulder flexion assembly shown in may be integrated as a single shoulder unit providing both degrees of freedom provided by the shoulder abductor and shoulder flexion assembly of . The single shoulder unit includes a shoulder housing pivotally connected to the harness mount which allows the shoulder unit to be connected to a prosthetic harness not shown as discussed above. In some embodiments the shoulder housing has a smooth outer surface to shape the shoulder unit to be similar to a human arm. The shoulder housing is divided into a flexor portion and an abductor portion which are movable relative to one another. The flexor portion of the shoulder housing includes the humeral interface for connecting the humeral rotator shown in to the shoulder unit . The abductor portion of the shoulder housing is pivotally connected to the harness mount which allows the shoulder unit to interface with a prosthetic harness not shown as discussed above.

Referring to within the housing is a shoulder flexion drive for causing flexion motion of the flexor portion about a shoulder flexion axis and an abduction drive for causing abduction motion of the shoulder housing about an abduction axis . Additionally the housing also defines an electronics compartment for housing control systems and circuits for the integrated shoulder unit .

The shoulder flexion drive in one embodiment includes a shoulder flexion motor having motor shaft for driving the shoulder flexion motor pulley . The shoulder flexion motor pulley drives the shoulder flexion belt which in turn drives the shoulder flexion belt driven pulley . The shoulder flexion belt driven pulley drives the wave generator of a shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system the output of which is fixedly interfaced with the abductor portion . Thus as power is transmitted through the shoulder flexion drive from the shoulder flexion motor to the output of the harmonic drive gearing system the flexor portion rotates relative to the abductor portion about the shoulder flexion axis . In some embodiments the motor shaft and the wave generator are both hollow shafts to allow passage of an abductor motor shaft and an abductor screw shaft respectively as will be discussed in greater detail below.

In the exemplary embodiment the abduction drive includes the abductor motor for driving the abductor motor shaft . The abductor motor shaft is configured to drive the abductor belt about its distal end. The abductor belt in turn drives the abductor screw shaft which has an abductor nut threadedly coupled thereto. The abductor nut is connected to the harness mount through a linkage which is in some embodiments a four bar linkage. As power is transmitted through the abductor drive from the abductor motor to the abductor screw shaft the screw shaft rotates. The rotation of the screw shaft causes the abductor nut to displace axially along the screw shaft which causes pivotal motion of the shoulder housing through the linkage about the abduction axis .

Referring to the relative movement between the flexor portion and the abductor portion provides the shoulder unit with a first degree of freedom similar to that of the shoulder flexion joint of . The abductor portion of the shoulder housing is pivotally connected to the harness mount at the abductor joint providing the shoulder unit with the second degree of freedom by allowing the shoulder housing to pivot relative to the harness mount in a similar manner to that discussed above in connection with the shoulder abductor of . Referring to the integrated shoulder unit locates the shoulder flexion axis and the abduction axis relatively close to one another as compared to separate shoulder flexion and shoulder abduction assemblies which provides for more intuitive motion that more closely simulates the movement of a human shoulder.

The shoulder flexion drive and the abduction drive discussed above include coaxial motors and coaxial shafts to minimize the size of the single shoulder unit and to reduce the weight thereof. Thus these exemplary single shoulder unit is beneficial because its weight relative to the separate shoulder abductor and shoulder flexion assembly shown in . Additionally the single shoulder unit provides more narrow housing which allows a more natural anatomical position of the shoulder for a broader range of users and may reduce bumping with the user s residuum during use. This embodiment has an additional benefit of decreasing the weight of the prosthetic. Additionally as seen in both the abduction motor and the shoulder flexion motor may be located in the vicinity of the electronics compartment so the electronics for both the shoulder flexion drive and the abduction drive may be located in the same place which eliminates any need to route wiring through the shoulder unit . This is advantageous since running wires across joints is a failure mode in which the wires may crimp and break when moved. Thus the shoulder unit eliminates this failure mode by eliminating wires running across the joints that could cause failure of the prosthetic arm .

Although the shoulder flexion drive and the abduction drive have been shown in an exemplary configuration it should be understood by those skilled in the art that other drive configurations may also be used to drive the single shoulder unit about the shoulder flexion axis and the abduction axis . For instance referring to the shoulder flexion motor and the abduction motor of the single shoulder unit do not need to be coaxial and they may still each be located within the housing in the vicinity of the electronics compartment . Additionally rather than driving the linkage shown in the worm drive may instead threadably engage an abduction gear coupled to the harness mount to generate pivotal movement about the abduction axis .

Additionally referring now to in various embodiments the integrated shoulder unit may shift the abduction output to change the location of the harness mount not shown to improve mounting location and or to allow for ninety degrees 90 of abduction about the abduction axis without bumping with the residuum not shown . For example the location of the abduction output may be changed by extending the abduction drive with one or more additional shafts gears and or belts.

Referring to the flexion assembly mount may also be shifted away from the harness mount in the non integrated shoulder abductor . Referring to the flexion assembly mount may also include an accommodating slot adapted to accommodate portions of the abductor joint shown in . Referring back to the shifted flexion assembly mount allows the user to orient the shoulder abductor on the prosthetic support apparatus not shown in different orientations while still allowing a range of motion of the shoulder abductor of at least approximately ninety degrees 90 . This may be particularly advantageous since the mounting orientation of the shoulder abductor may vary from user to user which may limit the range of abduction motion with the non shifted flexion assembly mount shown in . Additionally in some embodiments the shifted flexion assembly mount may house a flex sensor plunger for detecting flexion motion of the shoulder flexion assembly .

Referring now to another embodiment of the wrist rotator is shown for providing improved electronic wiring capability to the prosthetic device. Although shown as the wrist rotator it should be understood by those skilled in the art that a similar configuration may be used for other rotating joints such as the humeral rotator shown in . In this embodiment of the wrist rotator the wrist rotator motor including the wrist rotator motor armature and a driven portion of the wrist rotator motor rotor having wrist rotator magnets disposed thereon and the wrist harmonic drive gearing system including the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system wave generator the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system flexspline and the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system circular spline are separated into coaxial side by side units with the wrist rotator motor being proximate to the elbow interface and the harmonic drive gearing system being proximate to the wrist flexion assembly interface . By arranging the wrist rotator motor and the wrist harmonic drive gearing system in the side by side configuration the electronics channel passing through the center of the wrist rotator rotor may be formed large enough to allow electronic wiring to be run internally through the center of the wrist rotator . Referring to the wiring through the prosthetic arm shown in in some embodiments may run through one or more extension springs in particular around the flexion joints such as the elbow flexion assembly and the wrist flexion assembly shown in where internal wiring is difficult or impractical.

Routing the wiring through the center of the wrist rotator eliminates the need for external wiring thereby minimizing any flexing movement experienced by the wiring which can cause wire pinching abrasions and failure. The internal wiring also eliminates the possibility that external wiring will become caught on something and break. Routing the wiring through the one or more extension springs where internal wiring is not practical possible or desired allows for controlled loading of the external wiring and protects the wiring from pinching to reduce wire failure.

Referring to in another embodiment of the wrist flexion assembly the output arm is able to move in flexion relative to the input support structure about a flexion axis and to move in ulnar radial deviation relative to the input support structure about a deviation axis that is perpendicular to the flexion axis . Thus when the hand assembly shown in is attached to the output arm of the wrist flexion assembly the hand assembly shown in is able to move in both flexion and ulnar radial deviation.

Referring to the wrist flexion assembly includes two wrist motors for controlling the flexion and ulnar radial deviation of the output arm shown in . Each wrist motor drives an input geartrain which in turn drives a wrist worm gear . Each worm gear drives an input gear of a wrist differential . The wrist differential includes a first bevel gears and a second bevel gear that are rotatable about the flexion axis . The first bevel gear and the second bevel gear may be driven by one of the input gears . The wrist differential also includes a differential body rotatably attached about the flexion axis between the first and second bevel gears and . An ulnar radial axle extends from one side of the differential body along the ulnar radial axis and a third bevel gear extends from the differential body on the opposite side thereof. The third bevel gear is rotatable about the ulnar radial axis and meshes with and is driven by the first bevel gear and the second bevel gear .

In operation the user is able to actuate wrist flexion wrist ulnar radial deviation and combinations thereof by actuating the motors in various ways. For example referring to if the motors are driven at the same speed in opposite directions i.e. one is driven clockwise and the other counterclockwise the output arm shown in will move in flexion in one direction about the flexion axis . If the direction of each motor is reversed i.e. from spinning clockwise to counterclockwise and vice versa the output arm shown in will flex in the opposite direction. Similarly referring to if the motors are driven at the same speed in the same direction i.e. both are driven clockwise the output arm shown in will move in ulnar radial deviation in one direction about the deviation axis . If the direction of each motor is reversed i.e. from spinning clockwise to counterclockwise the output arm shown in will move in ulnar radial deviation in the opposite direction about the deviation axis . In addition to varying the direction of rotation of the motors varying the speed of one motor relative to the other will result in a combination of flexion and ulnar radial deviation. Accordingly in this embodiment wrist flexion and ulnar radial deviation may both be controlled simply by varying the direction and speed of the motors .

Although the wrist flexion assembly is described as having a differential drive for imparting wrist flexion and wrist ulnar radial deviation movement to the output arm it should be understood by those skilled in the art that other drives may be used to achieve similar capabilities. For instance referring to the wrist flexion assembly may include a separate wrist flexion geartrain for imparting flexion motion to the output arm about the flexion axis and a separate ulnar radial geartrain for imparting ulnar radial deviation to the output arm about the deviation axis .

Referring to in another embodiment of the present invention a wrist flexion assembly is provided for imparting a combination of both flexion about the flexion axis and ulnar radial deviation about the deviation axis to the hand assembly in a single movement. The wrist flexion assembly includes the input support structure adapted to be connected to the wrist rotator shown in in the same manner as discussed above. The wrist support structure includes a hand interface proximate to the hand assembly for attaching the hand assembly to the wrist support structure . The wrist support structure houses a wrist motor shown in which drives the wrist pivot axle in rotary motion about the wrist flexion axis through an appropriate gear train not shown . The wrist pivot axle includes flattened end portions at each end thereof extending outwardly from the wrist support structure and into the hand interface . Each flattened end portion has two substantially parallel planar surface extending parallel to the wrist flexion axis . The hand interface includes a first cam bearing fixedly secured to the wrist support structure about the flattened end portion of the wrist pivot axle proximate to the thumb structure of the hand assembly . The hand interface also includes a second cam bearing fixedly secured to the wrist support structure about the flattened end portion of the wrist pivot axle proximate to the pinky finger of the hand assembly . Referring to the first cam bearing includes a first cam profile formed therein. Referring to the second cam bearing includes a second cam profile formed therein. Referring back to the hand interface also includes first and second slider blocks coupling the hand assembly to the wrist flexion assembly . The first and second slider blocks each have a proximate end at the hand interface and a distal end near the hand assembly . Each of the first and second slider blocks has a slot formed therein that slidably receives one of the flattened end portions of the wrist pivot axle . The first and second slider blocks include cam followers at their proximate ends that are received within the first cam profile of the first cam bearing and the second cam profile shown in of the second cam bearing . The first and second slider blocks are pivotally coupled to the hand assembly at their distal ends about pivot axes .

In this embodiment the hand assembly may be angled away from the flexion axis about a wrist rotation axis to reduce the motion that the first cam profile and the second cam profile need to produce to achieve the desired combined flexion and ulnar radial deviation movement of the hand assembly . In some embodiments the hand assembly is angled approximately thirty degrees clockwise 30 clockwise assuming left hand user perspective from the flexion axis .

Referring to in operation the wrist motor shown in drives the wrist pivot axle in rotation movement about the flexion axis which provides the hand assembly with flexion movement. Additionally the sliding engagement between the flattened end portions of the wrist pivot axle and the first and second slider blocks causes the first and second slider blocks to pivot about the flexion axis as the wrist pivot axle rotates. As the first and second slider blocks pivot the cam followers shown in follow the first cam profile shown in and the second cam profile shown in which causes the first and second slider blocks to slide relative to the wrist pivot axle . This sliding motion of each of the first and second slider blocks causes the hand assembly to pivot about the pivot axes shown in which results in the ulnar radial deviation movement of the hand assembly . Thus as the wrist motor drives the wrist pivot axle the hand assembly moves from a first position shown in in which the hand is fully flexed and deviated in the ulnar direction to a second position shown in which is a neutral position with respect to flexion movement but includes some degree of ulnar deviation. Then the hand assembly continues to move until it reaches a third position shown in in which the hand assembly is fully extended about the flexion axis and is also fully deviated in the radial direction.

Referring to the first cam profile shown in and the second cam profile shown in provide for movement of the hand assembly shown in along a constrained flexion deviation movement path that includes components of both flexion motion and ulnar radial deviation motion. The constrained flexion deviation movement path is advantageous because the user only needs to think about controlling a single degree of freedom unlike the embodiments discussed above that provide independent wrist flexion movement and ulnar deviation movement. Additionally the constrained flexion deviation movement path is beneficial because it provides for full flexion movement and also provides for nearly full ulnar deviation without requiring full wrist flexion. Thus functionality is particularly beneficial when users use the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in to pick up an object not shown from overhead. The constrained flexion deviation movement path also advantageously allows for some degree of flexion movement without significant ulnar deviation which allows the user to move an object such as a spoon in flexion motion without spilling its contents. This range of flexion movement with minimal ulnar deviation provided by the constrained flexion deviation movement path may also be beneficial to compensate for offset in situations where the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in is mounted at an offset for example to avoid the user s residuum. Additionally since the hand assembly shown in is angled in the neutral second position shown in pinching of the thumb structure shown in and index finger structure shown in are more in line with the wrist rotation axis which makes various tasks easier for the user such as turning a door knob turning a key or the like. Thus the constrained flexion deviation movement path provided by the wrist flexion assembly shown in provides a variety of advantages over conventional prosthetic devices.

Although described in terms of constrained flexion deviation movement path it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the first cam profile shown in and the second cam profile shown in may be formed in various configurations to achieve a variety of different constrained movement paths. Additionally although the constrained flexion deviation movement path has been described in connection with the wrist flexion assembly the constrained flexion deviation movement path may also be commanded using the flexion assembly shown in by programming the prosthetic controller to actuate the motors shown in to move the prosthetic hand assembly along the same constrained flexion deviation path .

Referring to in various embodiments the non backdriving clutch may replace spacers of the input cage with springs between the rollers . The springs push the rollers apart and into contact with both the race and the output polygon which may be an output hex . Thus when a backdriving torque not shown is applied to the output hex to friction lock the rollers between the output hex and the bearing race the rollers are already contacting both the race and the output hex thereby eliminating backlash i.e. a slight rotation of the output polygon when the backdriving torque not shown is applied. Thus the non backdrivable clutch imparts a frictional lock which additional backdriving torque not shown through the output hex will not overcome. Additionally as discussed above in connection with in various embodiments the non backdriving clutch may unlock itself through the application of an input load through the input cage . Variations of this embodiment may include but are not limited to additional or fewer springs additional or fewer rollers or a differently shaped race . For example in various embodiments the relative position of the output hex and the race may be shifted i.e. rather than the hollow circular race with the output polygon inside in various embodiments the clutch may include an outer hollow output polygon surrounding a circular race. Additionally although shown as a coil spring it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the springs may be formed in various configurations and or from a variety of metal or elastomeric materials to provide the force for separating the rollers .

Referring to an embodiment for output load sensing through a drive having a worm gear such as the shoulder abduction drive of is shown. Including one or more worm gears in the drive is beneficial because the worm gear may itself prevent backdriving. The worm gear may be arranged on a splined shaft between a first spring and a second spring . The splined shaft includes a plurality of splines arranged axially around the surface of the splined shaft and a shaft input portion which may be rotated directly by a motor not shown or through a gear train or the like. The worm gear is tubular and has an interior surface designed to slidably interface with the splines of the splined shaft such that the worm gear may slide axially along the surface of the splined shaft . The worm gear meshes with an output gear such that when the splined shaft is caused to rotate through its shaft input portion the splined shaft rotatably drives the worm gear through the splines which in turn drives the output gear . When a load not shown is applied to the drive through the output gear for example if the user is lifting an object the load will generate a torque T at the output gear . Although the torque T will not cause the worm gear to rotate the torque T may cause the worm gear to displace axially along the splined shaft compressing one of the first spring or the second spring depending upon the direction of displacement. Thus by designing the drive system with the first spring and the second spring of known spring constants the compliance i.e. the displacement of the worm gear may be measured to estimate the output load not shown . This drive system for output load sensing is particularly beneficial since the compliance is still present or active while the worm gear is not being rotated but is instead acting as a non backdriving element.

The prevention of backdriving with the various systems discussed above is beneficial because it allows the user to maintain a position of the prosthetic arm shown in while under a load not shown . However referring to in some embodiments it may be desirable to provide the various arm segments with break away mechanisms that will separate the drive output from the drive input to prevent damage to the drive system if the load becomes too large. The break away mechanism may include an input shaft an output shaft and two break away spacers that are held in contact with the input shaft and output shaft by a compression member . The input shaft and the output shaft each include a shaft body and a torque transmission tab extending axially outward from the shaft body between the break away spacers . The compression element member surrounds the break away spacers and sandwiches the torque transmission tabs therebetween. The compression member may be for example a snap ring a round metal ring an o ring multiple o rings a coil spring or the like. The compression member applies a preset compressive force to the breakaway spacers .

In operation the input shaft of the break away mechanism is rotated by a motor not shown or the like to generate a desired movement of the prosthetic arm shown in . Thus the torque transmission tab of the input shaft rotates and transmits the rotation through the break away spacers to the torque transmission tab of the output shaft as long as the torque required to cause rotation of the torque transmission tab of the output shaft is not large enough to overcome the preset compressive force provided by the compression member . If the torque is large enough to overcome the preset compressive force the torque transmission tab will push the break away spacers apart and the torque transmission tab will rotate between the break away spacers without transmitting torque therethrough. Thus the break away mechanism may prevent torque above a preset level from being transmitted through the drive system where it can damage the drive system components or injure the user. Accordingly the break away mechanism may limit the amount of torque applied to sensitive parts of the various drive systems of the prosthetic arm shown in and may therefore impart a longer lifespan on the prosthetic arm.

Referring to another embodiment of a breakaway mechanism includes an input ring and an output ring connected by a detent ring . The breakaway mechanism may be connected between two prosthetic arm segments for example the input ring may be connected to the shoulder unit shown in and the output ring may be connected to the humeral rotator shown in . Referring to in some embodiments the input ring output ring and the detent ring each includes an alignment marker on its outer surface to indicate proper positioning of the breakaway mechanism .

Referring to the output ring includes a central hub having an outer surface with a plurality of spring fingers radiating therefrom. Each spring finger has a first detent and a second detent along its length and a pin at its distal end . The input ring includes a plurality of detents around the circumference of its inner surface within which the pins of the spring fingers may engage as will be discussed in greater detail below. The detent ring includes a plurality of detent pins located partway between the inner surface of the input ring and the outer surface of the output ring . The detent pins engage the first detents of the spring fingers during normal operation of the breakaway mechanism i.e. when torque is being transmitted through the breakaway mechanism .

However referring to if an overtorque situation occurs the pins at the distal ends of the spring fingers will pop out of the ring detents so that the torque will not be transmitted back to the input ring . Additionally referring to the overtorque situation will also cause the alignment markers to move out of alignment. The user may then realign the alignment markers to transmit torque through the breakaway mechanism .

Referring to the user may also intentionally disengage the torque transmission by moving the alignment marker on the detent ring up to engage the breakaway mechanism in freeswing. As seen in this configuration entirely disengages the spring fingers from the input ring thereby allowing the output ring to rotate freely without driving the upstream components through the input ring . Thus this embodiment of the breakaway mechanism is advantageous because it also allows for the user to engage freeswing of the prosthetic arm shown in .

These break away mechanisms discussed above are beneficial because they prevent damage to the prosthetic arm apparatus and possible injury to the user due to high loading situations. Additionally the break away mechanisms are advantageous in that once the break away mechanisms break under high loading they may be reset by the user without the need to see a prosthetic technician.

As discussed above various embodiments of the prosthetic arm shown in include feedback mechanisms for compliance and position sensing such as potentiometer shown in . Referring now to in some embodiments the prosthetic arm shown in may include other feedback mechanisms for example a magnetic position sensor . In these embodiments at least one magnetic strip may be attached about the circumference of an inner surface of a rotatable drive component . The magnetic strip includes a plurality of magnets of known length L arranged in series each having a north pole N and a south pole S. Thus the magnetic strip generates a magnetic field having a repeating pattern of alternating north poles N and south poles S. The magnetic position sensor is arranged to detect this magnetic field generated by the magnetic strip . In operation the rotatable drive component rotates which causes the magnetic strip to rotate thereby moving the portion of the magnetic strip being detected by the magnetic position sensor . The magnetic position sensor detects this change in the magnetic field as the magnetic strip rotates from each north pole N to each south pole S and vice versa. Since the length L of each magnet is known the detected changes in the magnetic field between each north pole N and or each south pole S may be converted into the distance of rotational movement of the rotatable drive component . Thus the change in position of the rotatable drive component may be detected. The magnetic position sensor is also advantageous because it does not contact the rotating drive component and therefore will not experience contact wear due to the rotation of the rotatable drive component .

Referring to in some embodiments two magnetic position sensors may be used to detect the magnetic fields generated by the first magnetic strip and a second magnetic strip arranged next to each other around the circumference of the inner surface of a rotatable drive component . A length L of each magnet of the second magnetic strip is in some embodiments different than the length L of the magnets of the first magnetic strip . This difference in length allows for the magnetic position sensors to sense unique combinations of magnetic field values from the first magnetic strip and the second magnetic strip over the circumference of the inner surface . Each unique magnetic field value may correspond to a position of the drive component and therefore absolute position of the drive component may be detected by the two magnetic position sensors .

In practice the hand assembly shown in and particularly the fingers of the hand assembly i.e. the thumb structure index finger structure middle finger ring finger and pinky finger all shown in come into contact with objects frequently and therefore may be susceptible to wear and damage. Thus referring to it may be desirable for the prosthetic hand assembly to include removable fingers . In this embodiment of the prosthetic hand assembly the removable fingers may be removed to allow for easier replacement of damaged fingers and also to allow for easily customizable or tailored finger lengths for different user.

Each removable finger is driven in substantially the same manner as the fingers of the previously discussed embodiments. However the removable fingers pivot about a common finger shaft rather than the individual pivot axles discussed in connection with . In some embodiments end caps cover each end of the common finger shaft to prevent dirt or other contaminants from getting into the gear trains of the hand assembly and also to ensure that the common finger shaft does not become axially displaced unintentionally. In operation either end cap may be removed from the hand assembly and the common finger shaft may be extracted to free the removable fingers . Each finger may then be removed and replaced individually as required.

As discussed above the fingers of the hand assembly come into contact with objects frequently and are therefore susceptible to wear. Thus referring to some embodiments of the present invention may include a cosmesis for covering the hand assembly to reduce wear of the hand assembly and the fingers in particular. The cosmesis may be formed from silicone or a similar material such as a urethane to improve the grip capabilities of the hand assembly to assist with the various grasping and pinch functions of the hand thereby providing additional functionality.

In use the cosmesis may wear more quickly around the fingers and the thumb structure . Therefore in some embodiments the cosmesis may separate into two or more sections to allow high wear areas to be replaced more frequently than low wear areas. For instance referring to in some embodiments the cosmesis includes a separate palm section covering the hand support finger sections covering each finger and a thumb section covering the thumb structure . Thus the finger sections and thumb section may each be replaced separately from the palm section . Although shown as having separate finger sections and thumb section in various embodiments the cosmesis may also include only two sections for example the finger sections and the thumb section may be combined into one section and the hand support may be covered by the separate palm section .

Referring to in some embodiments of the present invention the fingers may be provided with geometric features such as slots in their outer surfaces that may accept corresponding geometric interlocks provided on the inner surface of the cosmesis . This interlocking geometry may resist shear loads on the cosmesis thereby preventing the cosmesis from slipping off of the fingers . Additionally with respect to the hand cosmesis fine pinch and other functions may require a structural backing at the tips of the fingers and thumb structure . Therefore in some embodiments the geometric features of the fingers and thumb structure may each include a fingernail apparatus shown in . The fingernail apparatus shown in interacts with the finger and thumb structure cosmesis to anchor the cosmesis of the fingers and thumb structure thereby mitigating and or preventing the cosmesis from rolling over on the tips of the fingers and thumb structure .

Referring to the palm section of the cosmesis may also be formed to resist slippage due to shear loads. For instance a palm side of the cosmesis may be formed with a tacky inner surface . In some embodiments the material of the cosmesis itself will provide the tacky inner surface for example silicon or a urethane material may be naturally tacky. In other embodiments a tacky surface coating may be applied to the cosmesis to form the tacky inner surface . Thus as objects being held are pressed against the palm side of the cosmesis the tacky inner surface is pressed against the hand support shown in thereby resisting slippage. In some embodiments in this embodiment a back side of the cosmesis is formed with a slippery inner surface to facilitate installation and removal of the cosmesis . For example the slippery inner surface may be formed by applying a surface modifying coating to the cosmesis or applying a surface texture to the cosmesis . For example to install the cosmesis onto the hand support shown in the cosmesis may be pulled down and away from the palm so that the slippery inner surface of the back side slides along the hand support while the tacky inner surface of the palm side is pulled away from the hand support . Thus the cosmesis may be easily slid onto the hand support . To remove the cosmesis the palm side may again be pulled away from the hand support while the cosmesis is pulled toward the fingers thereby allowing the cosmesis to slide easily off the hand support .

Additionally in some embodiments the fingers may include one or more additional functions. For example referring to one or more fingers may include a thermal sensor disposed thereon to determine the temperature of an object not shown brought into contact with the finger . The signal from the sensor may be transmitted to a controller not shown for the prosthetic arm and displayed to the user as will be discussed in greater detail below. In some embodiments temperature detection may be provided by forming the cosmesis or a portion thereof from a temperature sensitive polymer such as a polymer with a thermochromic color changing additive therein or thermochromic liquid crystal that allows a variety of colors to be shown as temperature changes which will change color depending upon the temperature of the cosmesis . For example the cosmesis may change from one color to another if a present temperature is exceeded. This temperature sensing functionality may be used to determine the temperature of an object not shown in the hand and to warn the user of a high temperature or low temperature condition to mitigate the threat of burns or other harm.

Referring to another embodiment of the thumb structure is shown for providing thumb compliance detection. The thumb structure includes a thumb base and a thumb tip which are each substantially rigid and are joined together by an elastomeric spring . In some embodiments the interface between the thumb tip and the elastomeric spring includes one or more alignment features to ensure proper alignment of the thumb tip with the elastomeric spring . Similarly the interface between the thumb base and the elastomeric spring also includes one or more alignment features to ensure proper alignment of the thumb base and the elastomeric spring .

Referring to within the thumb structure the thumb base includes a pivotal interface tube extending upward into a central bore of the elastomeric spring . A pivot shaft having a magnet disposed at its lower end is arranged with the pivotal interface tube and extends upwardly therefrom into a central bore in the thumb tip of substantially the same diameter as the pivot shaft . Below the pivot shaft within the thumb base is arranged a Hall effect sensor on a sensor bracket . The sensor bracket includes a wire channel to facilitate wiring the Hall effect sensor to the prosthetic control circuits not shown . Referring to in operation when a load L is applied to the thumb tip the elastomeric spring compresses on the side of the thumb structure opposite the applied load L allowing the thumb tip to tilt. The tilt of the thumb tip causes a corresponding tilt of the pivot shaft within the pivotal interface tube thereby displacing the magnet disposed on the lower end of the pivot shaft . The Hall effect sensor detects this displacement of the magnet which can be correlated to the applied load L on the thumb tip . By detecting the various loads on the thumb structure the user may ensure that objects are not gripped so hard that they could break and that the thumb is not subjected to loads that could cause failure of the thumb structure .

Referring to in some embodiments the humeral rotator may include a yolk rather than the cantilever mounting interface shown in for interfacing with the elbow flexion assembly . The yolk interfaces with a first side and a second side of the elbow flexion assembly to provide increased strength to the interface when compared to the cantilever mounting interface shown in which only interfaces with one side of the elbow flexion assembly .

Referring to in some embodiments of the present invention the prosthetic arm may be provided with a status indicator . In some embodiments the status indicator may include but is not limited to one or more LEDs arranged on the hand assembly . However in other embodiments the one or more LEDs may be located in various locations. The one or more LEDs may be configured to communicate a variety of information to the user including but not limited to one or more of the following battery power level an operational mode of the prosthetic device faults alarms alerts messages and or the like. Additionally although shown as one or more LEDs the status indicator may in other embodiments include a digital display and or user interface which may be arranged on the prosthetic device built into the prosthetic device and or may be a separate display unit for example as shown in as and in some embodiments may be a unit worn similarly to a wrist watch or bracelet as shown in as . However in other embodiments the unit may be a portable unit that may be worn or carried near the user for example but not limited to clipped on clothing belt and or attached to the user and or carried in a pocket either in the user s clothing and or in a separate bag and or pack. In some embodiments the unit may be a PDA personal data assistant smart phone or other electronic device configured to communicate with the prosthetic device by way of a wireless communications protocol including but not limited to RF and Bluetooth .

Thus in some embodiments it may be desirable to include both a separate display unit and one or more LEDs where for example but not limited to the one or more LEDs may be used to display one or more critical piece of information to the user while the separate display unit may provide a greater variety of information in more detail.

Still referring to in some embodiments of the present invention the prosthetic arm may be provided with an emergency switch which may turn off power to the system and thus engage the various brakes and or clutches in the prosthetic arm . In some embodiments the emergency switch is a chin switch that the user may activate with their chin.

The prosthetic arm apparatus of the present invention has a variety of benefits over conventional prosthetic devices such as the modularity of each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus as discussed above which allows the formation of customized prosthetic devices for different users. In particular each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus contains all of the actuators for that segment so that it may be removed as a separate unit. For instance the hand assembly includes all of the finger actuators therein allowing it to be connected and or removed as a separate unit. Additionally various degrees of freedom of the hand assembly are particularly beneficial because they allow the formation of various grasps or grips.

Although the invention has been described in the context of a prosthetic arm an apparatus according to the elements of this invention could be used in other robotic tools such as those used in manufacturing and or teleoperations where an operator is not connected directly to the controlled device. For example the prosthetic arm apparatus may be used for teleoperation in hazardous environments and or hazardous activities for the detonation of explosive devices or the like. In these environments the prosthetic arm apparatus may provide a more intuitive interface for the user since the user will already be familiar with the natural movements of the arm which may make control translation of the prosthetic arm apparatus easier.

While the principles of the invention have been described herein it is to be understood by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation as to the scope of the invention. Other embodiments are contemplated within the scope of the present invention in addition to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

