---

title: Network policy management and effectiveness system
abstract: The Present Invention discloses a method and apparatus for maintaining policy compliance on a computer network. A system in accordance with the principles of the Present Invention performs the steps of electronically monitoring network user compliance with a network security policy stored in a database, electronically evaluating network security policy compliance based on network user compliance and electronically undertaking a network policy compliance action in response to network security policy non-compliance. The network policy compliance actions may include automatically implementing a different network security policy selected from network security policies stored in the database, generating policy effectiveness reports and providing a retraining module to network users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756653&OS=08756653&RS=08756653
owner: Yaszistra Fund III, LLC
number: 08756653
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130219
---
This Application is a Divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 913 576 filed on 27 Oct. 2010 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 743 590 filed on 2 May 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 917 938 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 815 092 filed on 31 Mar. 2004 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 231 668 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 104 946 filed on 25 Jun. 1998 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 735 701. All of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The Present Invention relates in general to networked computing systems and more particularly to a system for maintaining network security policy compliance.

Electronic networks such as the Internet and various business computer networks allow business organizations to store applications and information on central servers having the ability to be called up and manipulated from any location. These networks allow people greater access to files and other confidential information. Global networks such as the Internet coupled with the ability of remote access increase 1 the vulnerability of corporate data 2 the risk of information leaks 3 the risk of unauthorized document access and the disclosure of confidential information 4 fraud and 5 attacks on privacy.

Ironically in some instances employees are the greatest threat to an organization s information security. Employees with access to information resources including electronic mail email the Internet and on line networks significantly increase the security risks.

In many situations employees are using email for personal purposes creating questions of appropriate use of company resources workplace productivity and appropriateness of message content. One of the greatest sources of information leaks is employee sent email. With electronic communication and networks an electronic paper trail is harder to determine since no record of who accessed altered tampered with reviewed or copied a file can make it very difficult to determine a document s authenticity and provide an audit and paper trail. In addition there is no automated system to centrally collect analyze measure index organize track determine authorized and unauthorized file access and disclosure link hard copy information with electronic files including email and report on how information flows in and out of an organization.

Setting proper use and security policies comprise a generally accepted method of creating order and setting standards for network use in the workplace. These policies are nevertheless ineffective unless users understand and comply with the policies. Unfortunately most organizations do not have tangible proof when and if a network based policy violation has occurred until long after the damage has been done. Due to the technical nature of network policy violations policy enforcement officers may not have adequate knowledge skill and evidence to properly execute a policy violation claim. Cases of selective policy enforcement can occur if policy violations are not consistently reported filed investigated and resolved.

Employees often view email as equivalent to a private conversation. However this view often does not reflect the official position of the organization or of generally accepted societal norms. Sometimes these email communications reflect preliminary thoughts or ideas that have not been reviewed by the organization and typically only reflect the personal opinion of the parties involved. Yet since employees of the organization create these communications courts and regulatory agencies have concluded that employee communications can reflect the organization s view.

Previous attempts have been made to develop a network policy management system in the workplace. Unfortunately each previous attempt has failed to develop an effective network policy management system in the workplace

For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 355 474 to Thuraisagham et al. titled System For Multilevel Secure Database Management Using A Knowledge Base With Release Based And Other Security Constraints For Query Response And Update Modification describes an integrated architecture apparatus for an extended multilevel secure database management system. In Thuraisagham the multilevel secure database management system processes security constraints to control certain unauthorized inferences through logical deduction upon queries by users and is implemented when the database is queried through the database management system when the database is updated through the database management system and when the database is designed using a database design tool. Thuraisagham is not intended to insure optimal policy compliance and effectiveness. Further it does not analyze network security policy compliance actions undertaken to determine ineffectual policies to modify and then automatically implement a different network security policy. Rather is a secure database management system that processes security constraints rules that assign security levels to data to control certain unauthorized inferences through logical deduction upon queries by users and is implemented when the database management system is updated.

Second U.S. Pat. No. 5 440 744 to Jacobson et al. titled Methods And Apparatus For Implementing Server Functions In A Distributed Heterogeneous Environment describes that in distributed heterogeneous data processing networks a dispatcher and a control server software components execute the code of a single application or of many portions of the code of one or more applications in response to a method object which includes a reference to the code to be executed received from a client application. Although Jacobson provides an efficient and simple manner for an application on one platform to be invoked by an application on the same of different platform like Thuraisagham Jacobson is not intended to insure optimal policy compliance and effectiveness. Further it does not analyze network security policy compliance actions undertaken to determine ineffectual policies to modify and then automatically implement a different network security policy.

Third U.S. Pat. No. 5 621 889 to Lemuzeaux et al. titled Facility For Detecting Intruders And Suspect Callers In A Computer Installation And A Security System Including Such A Facility describes a facility for detecting intrusions and suspect users in a computer installation and a security system incorporating such a facility that makes use of surveillance data relating to the operation of the installation. The facility includes elements for modeling the computer installation its users and their respective behavior with the help of a semantic network elements for comparing the modelized behavior of the system and of its users relative to modelized normal behavior elements for interpreting observed anomalies in terms of intrusions and of intrusion hypothesis elements for interpreting observed intrusion hypotheses and intrusions in order to indicate them and enable restraint actions to be prepared. Elements are provided to evaluate the degree of suspicion of users. The elements cooperate with one another for the purpose of providing information. Lemuzeaux is intended to detect network security intrusions. The expert system serves to check the behavior of the computer installation and it s users in such a matter as to determine whether said behavior complies with the behavior and security rules already established.

Fourth U.S. Pat. No. 5 797 128 to Birnbaum titled System And Method For Implementing A Hierarchical Policy For Computer System Administration describes a system and method for implementing a hierarchical policy for computer system administration which is extremely flexible in assigning policies to managed objects. Policies are defined to be rules for the values of the attributes of managed objects. Policy groups comprise the basic building blocks and they associate a set of policies with a set of managed objects. Policy groups can also be members of other policy groups and a policy group inherits the policies of its parent policy groups supporting the hierarchical specification of policy. A given policy group may have multiple parents which allows the mix in of policies from the parents. Cloning and templates in conjunction with validation policies and policy groups provide standardization and a concomitant reduction in system administration complexity. Birnbaum essentially is a system and method for implementing a hierarchical policy for computer system administration that is flexible in assigning policies to managed objects. Birnbaum requires system administrators to define policies by specifying expressions that describe the constraints for the attributes of a class of managed objects. Like Lemuzeaux Birnbaum does not automatically undertake actions to bring the network into compliance. And it also does not analyze network security policy compliance actions undertaken to determine ineffectual policies to modify and then automatically implement a different network security policy.

Finally U.S. Pat. No. 6 070 244 to Orchier entitled Computer Network Security Management System describes a method and system for controlling computer security. The system is a centralized computer network security management tool capable of handling many different kinds of equipment in a standardized format despite differences in the computer security features among the diverse range of computer equipment in the computer network. The invention uses a layered software architecture including a technology specific layer and a technology independent layer. The technology specific layer serves to extract and maintain security data on target platforms and for converting data to and from a common data model used by the technology independent layer. The technology independent layer handles the main functionality of the system such as locating and removing certain present and former employees from computer access lists auditing system user data monitoring security events e.g. failed login attempts automatically initiating corrective action interfacing with the system users reporting querying and storing of collected data s invention are prior art. Orchier automatically takes actions changes system parameters to be meet an established policy. However the invention does not take the step of analyzing network security policy compliance actions undertaken to determine ineffectual policies to modify and then automatically implement a different network security policy.

The disclosures of each of the aforementioned references are herein incorporated into the Specification of the Present Invention in their entireties.

Due to the above referenced disadvantages there is a need for network communications software programs that offers robust policy compliance assistance policy effectiveness monitoring and reporting. Further there is also a need for an automated system to assist policy enforcement officers with proper policy enforcement procedure and methods to measure policy effectiveness appropriateness user system activity and compliance.

To overcome the limitations in the references described above and to overcame other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the Present Invention the Present Invention discloses a method and apparatus for maintaining policy compliance on a computer network. A system in accordance with the principles of the Present Invention performs the steps of electronically monitoring network user compliance with a network security policy stored in a database electronically evaluating network security policy compliance based on network user compliance and electronically undertaking a network policy compliance action in response to network security policy non compliance. The network policy compliance actions may include automatically implementing a different network security policy selected from network security policies stored in the database generating policy effectiveness reports and providing a retraining module to network users.

One embodiment of the Present Invention includes a method for maintaining policy compliance on a computer network. The method comprises the steps of electronically monitoring network user compliance with a network security policy stored in a database electronically evaluating network security policy compliance based on the network user compliance automatically undertaking a network policy compliance action in response to the network security policy compliance automatically analyzing network security policy compliance actions undertaken to determine ineffectual policies to modify and automatically implementing a different network security policy and confirming the policy change.

Another embodiment of the Present Invention includes an apparatus for maintaining policy compliance on a computer network. The apparatus comprises a computer system comprising at least one processor and at least one memory. The computer system is adapted and arranged for electronically monitoring network user compliance with a network security policy stored in a database electronically evaluating network security policy compliance based on the network user compliance automatically undertaking a network policy compliance action in response to the network security policy compliance automatically analyzing network security policy compliance actions undertaken to determine ineffectual policies to modify and automatically implementing a different network security policy and confirming the policy change.

A third embodiment of the Present Invention includes an article of manufacture for maintaining policy compliance on a computer network. The article of manufacture comprises a computer readable storage medium having a computer program embodied therein that causes the computer network to perform the steps of electronically monitoring network user compliance with a network security policy stored in a database electronically evaluating network security policy compliance based on the network user compliance automatically undertaking a network policy compliance action in response to the network security policy compliance automatically analyzing network security policy compliance actions undertaken to determine ineffectual policies to modify and automatically implementing a different network security policy and confirming the policy change.

These and other various advantages and features of novelty that characterize the Present Invention and the various embodiments disclosed herein are pointed out with particularity in the Claims which are annexed hereto and which form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the Present Invention its advantages and the objects obtained by its use reference should be made to the Figures which form a further part hereof and to the accompanying Detailed Description Of The Present Invention in which there is illustrated and described specific examples in accordance with the embodiments of the Present Invention.

In the following description of the exemplary embodiments reference is made to the accompanying Figures that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the Present Invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the Present Invention.

The Present Invention provides a method and apparatus for maintaining policy compliance on a computer network. is a block diagram illustrating policy effectiveness system according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. The hardware generally implementing policy effectiveness system may include computers having processors and memories distributed over a network as is well known in the art. The memory may include RAM or fixed storage. The program steps implementing the Present Invention are stored in the memory and executed by the computer processor. The Present Invention may be implemented using an intranet based application that can be stored on central servers waiting to be called up and manipulated via a web browser from any location. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a variety of configurations can be used without departing from the scope of the Present Invention and that a wide variety of distributed and multi processing systems may be used. Each of the blocks of will be introduced followed by a detailed explanation of each block.

Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module for managing information received from the compliance monitor.

Block represents the policy effectiveness module for managing policy training module and compliance monitor .

Block represents the database for storing policy and compliance information for policy effectiveness system .

Policy training module typically is an interactive multimedia policy awareness training program that helps employees gain a better understanding of the basic concepts of network security email and the Internet. Policy training module presents the network user with a suggested network policy that the organization may wish to implement. Policy training module is designed to help the user understand potential risks that an organization faces if a policy is not implemented the potential advantages and disadvantages of the policy and the management and ethical principles affecting the potential policy in question. The network policies are generated by guidelines created from network user feedback obtained during a training session.

Policy training module is comprised of several templates. When the system is first implemented policy consultants may work with management personnel within an organization to determine the organization s policies for the initial training sessions. The initial policies are entered into policy training database and are the foundation for the initial training programs. After the initial policy training session policy effectiveness system will analyze all of the information gathered from the areas it monitors and compare it to network user profiles to determine the policy training needs of individual network users. Policy effectiveness system then customizes the policy training materials for the user training sessions.

To access policy training materials the user is prompted to enter a password and hardware token. The user may be shown a hypertext list of policy training options. The training options may include entering a policy training session reviewing for a policy exam or taking a policy exam.

The policy training session may combine interactive multimedia group policy development discussions or policy exercises with individual policy reviews and feedback screens. The results are typically network user generated policy guidelines for network security policies.

In one embodiment the computer screen for the policy training session is divided into three frames. The divided screen gives the user the option to review and answer policy recommendation questions see and participate in group policy discussions and pause the interactive group policy discussion session. After pausing the interactive group policy discussion session the user may review dynamic policy recommendations and statistics from previous policy training sessions request additional information on a topic or subject presented during a previous policy session or seek technical and product support.

Policy training module collects and records both individual and group policy recommendations. Policy training module uses pre loaded policy recommendations as a benchmark for network users to use during the policy creation training sessions. The policies created from the training sessions may be used to generate policy training effectiveness reports.

Block represents the policy training module presenting the network user with screen personality options. A screen personality represents a person who is participating in the training session under an assumed screen name and identity. The user is typically presented with a screen and is asked to choose a screen name and identify a screen personality for the training session. A screen personality gives users greater privacy and the freedom to answer policy questions without fear of retaliation from others participating in the program. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the choosing a screen identity according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the act of policy training module recording the network user s screen personality in the policy effectiveness database.

Block represents the policy training module assigning the user a session number. is an exemplary screen display illustrating assigning the user a session number according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the act of policy training module recording the network user s session number. The session number may be used to track and reference the training session in the policy effectiveness module.

Block represents the act of policy training module presenting the network user with a virtual training room. The user may be prompted to click on an icon to enter the virtual training room. The virtual training room is similar to an Internet chat room.

Block represents the act of policy training module presenting a virtual facilitator. In a preferred embodiment the user may be introduced to the program s virtual facilitator who may introduce the training participants to each other explain the training rules and ensure the training program remains on schedule. The virtual facilitator is typically stored in policy training database . is an exemplary screen display illustrating the introduction to the facilitator according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

In the preferred embodiment a maximum of Five 5 screen personalities can participate per training session. Block is a decision block representing the policy training module that determines if there are less than Three 3 participants registered for a session. Block represents the act of policy training module that determines the number of virtual personalities needed for the system. If there are less than three 3 participants registered for a system then control is passed to decision block . The system monitors the number of screen personalities registered for a training session. The system may record each user s training session including the user s policy suggestions individual feedback and onscreen comments provided during a training session. Block of the system generates a virtual personality to participate in the training session. A virtual personality may be implemented by completing the field of a template that may include information copied from a previous user s training session. If policy training module determines that a virtual personality is needed for the training session then the present system may be implemented so that the module launches an algorithm to generate a virtual personality to participate in the training session. The algorithm copies information from the policy recommendation database stored in database . Block represents the policy training module storing the virtual personality in the database . The policy recommendation database is comprised of policy information previously submitted by a network user via a screen personality including policy suggestions individual feedback and onscreen comments provided during previous training sessions. Virtual personality information obtained during previous training session is retrieved from the policy recommendation database . The algorithm copies the policy information from the previous policy modules and then positions and scripts the policy information for the training session. The script is defined as positioning and pacing the policy information per policy module to make it appear as though it is occurring in real time. This provides the user with a virtual personality that is interactive and simulates a real time training experience without the user being dependent upon the availability of others for interaction discussion and training. After introductions the user is typically prompted to click on either an agree or disagree icon to indicate his understanding of the training rules and to indicate his readiness to proceed. Block represents the policy training module generating a policy.

Block is a decision block representing the policy training module . It determines if there are more than Five 5 screen personalities registered for the session. If there are more than Five 5 screen personalities registered then Block represents the policy training module dividing the participants into two groups for policy training. If there are Five 5 of less screen personalities registered then control is passed to Block which represents the policy training module generating a policy training session. Block represents the policy training module assigning the participants a new session number.

Block represents the policy training module indicating that the network user is ready to begin policy training. The system presents the network users with suggested policy information.

Block represents the policy training module receiving suggested policies from network users. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the suggested policy according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. The suggested policy information typically is stored in policy training database . The user is asked to review the policy information and a policy suggestion for a limited period of time. Policy training module collects a policy suggestion from each network user s policy review session.

Block represents the policy training module prompting the network user to join a group discussion after the network user has reviewed the information on his own. The network user indicates his readiness to join the group discussion by clicking an icon. The network user s signal may be sent to other participants screens. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the network user discussion options according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the policy training module notifying the other participants that a network user is prepared to enter a group session. Once the individual network users are ready to discuss the policy the facilitator begins the session monologue and monitors the session s content and time.

Block represents the policy training module retrieving the electronic facilitator from database . The electronic facilitator serves as a moderator for the training module. The electronic facilitator may prompt the users for input and monitors the time spent on each issue.

Block represents the policy training module connecting individual network users to the policy training chat room.

Blocks and represent the individual network user connecting to the policy chat room of the policy training module . One or more individual network user s policy recommendations may be displayed to the group.

Block represents the policy training module displaying network user policy recommendations to the group. The policy recommendations may be shown in a different color and font. is an exemplary screen display illustrating group policy discussions according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. The individual recommendations are used to develop group policy consensus. From the discussion the group confers online to write a policy recommendation. All group participants can view the policy recommendations and group discussions from previous policy training sessions. is an exemplary screen display illustrating policy writing according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block is a decision block representing the policy training module querying the user regarding whether he wants more policy information. If so Block represents the policy training module retrieving the policy training information and displaying it to applicable network users. Block represents the policy training module collecting policy recommendations from the group. The group confers online to write a policy recommendation. Policy training module collects and records all group policy recommendations. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the network user discussion options according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the policy training module recording the group policy recommendations in the policy recommendation database .

Block represents the policy training module calculating and ranking the group responses in the policy training database. For example the policy with the most user votes may be the policy of group consensus.

Block is a decision block representing the policy training module determining if a policy consensus has been achieved. If policy consensus has been achieved then Block represents the policy training module displaying the group consensus. If consensus is not achieved then control may be returned to Block . If there is a tie for group consensus then the system requires network users to review the policy options and re vote. Each user s policy information is displayed so that the group may reconsider their policy recommendations. Consequently the group may attempt to come to a group policy consensus.

Block represents the policy training module displaying policy consensus. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the policy consensus according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the policy training module recording the policy consensus. The process of developing a consensus policy is repeated until all of the policy modules have been reviewed and addressed.

Block is a decision block representing the policy training module determining if there are no additional policy modules to complete. If there are additional policy modules to complete then Block repeats the policy generation process. If there are no additional policy modules to complete then Block represents the policy training module presenting a suggested policy to the network user and assembling and recording the group consensus policies from each policy module.

The policy training module assembles and records the group consensus policies from each policy module in the network security policy database .

Block represents the end of the policy generation process of the policy training module . When the policy training session are completed the network user is given the option to start a policy exam review policy training materials or end the session. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the policy training options according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the policy training module receiving a request for a policy training exam from the network user.

Block represents the policy training module retrieving a policy exam from the policy training database and presenting it to the network user. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the policy exam according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. Once the network user completes the exam he may be prompted to send the exam to policy effectiveness where the network user s exam is recorded.

Block represents the policy training module receiving the exam answers from the network user and tabulating the network user s score. During the exam tabulation period the network user may be asked to fill out a policy training feedback and evaluation form.

Block represents the policy training module retrieving a policy training feedback and evaluation form from the policy training database and sending it to the network user. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a training feedback and evaluation form according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. The network user may complete the policy training feedback and evaluation form and return it to the policy training module .

Block represents the policy training module storing the policy training feedback and evaluation form in the User s Profile database .

Block represents the policy training module sending the network user his exam score after the feedback and evaluation form is completed.

After the network user completes the policy building session the policy training module may request that the user sign an Appropriate Use Agreement Employee Agreement to limit the organization s liability. is an exemplary screen display illustrating an Appropriate Use Agreement Employee Agreement form according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. is an exemplary screen display illustrating an Appropriate Use Agreement Employee Agreement form according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. Block represents the policy training module sending the network user an Appropriate Use Agreement Employee Agreement. The network user reads and signs the Agreement. The network user returns the Agreement to the policy training module . The signed Agreement is kept in the User Profile database and a copy is emailed to the user for his records.

Block represents the policy training module receiving the Agreement and storing it in the User Profile .

Block represents the policy training module sending an email message to the network user with a copy of the Agreement attached.

Block represents the end of the policy exam process. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the end of the training according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. If the network user fails the exam then the policy training module will prompt him to retake the exam review policy training materials or end the session.

Policy Compliance Monitor works with Policy Effectiveness Module to provide network user compliance monitoring with network security policy stored in a database. It electronically evaluates network security policy compliance based on network user compliance and undertakes a network policy compliance action in response to user security policy compliance. Network user compliance monitoring is defined as monitoring network activity to insure network users are in compliance with the organization s network security policies. Network security policy is a set of rules designed to limit an organization s risk and liability.

Block represents the user profile module of policy effectiveness system . User profile module is a database comprised of information about network users. For example the user profile module may contain information about network user policy compliance history employment history and network identification information. is an exemplary screen display illustrating the User Profile according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the email compliance module of policy effectiveness system . The email compliance module collects information on network users email use activity. is an exemplary screen display illustrating email compliance according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the document management module of policy effectiveness system . is an exemplary screen display illustrating document management module according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. Document management module collects information on documents in the system. This may include network user document access history document version history and document authenticity.

Block represents software compliance module of policy effectiveness system . Software compliance module collects information on how network users utilize software on the network. is an exemplary screen display illustrating Software Compliance according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the audit function of policy effectiveness system . The audit function collects information from all of the policies monitored by the policy compliance monitor . Each monitored policy is assigned a value representing a target baseline compliance level for network policy compliance baseline network policy compliance . In the preferred embodiment the numeric value assigned to each monitored policy is 100 representing that for each policy 100 user compliance is required. Each network user compliance activity has a numeric value the system monitors representing a targeted compliance level for user policy compliance user policy compliance .

Block represents the network security policy compliance database of the database . The baseline compliance level assigned to each monitored policy is stored in network security policy compliance database of the database . The audit function is responsible for reviewing network user compliance against baseline network security policy.

Block is a decision block representing the policy effectiveness system analyzing the baseline network policy compliance value in relation to the user compliance policy value. If the user policy compliance value is greater than or equal to the baseline network policy compliance value then Block represents the policy effectiveness system notifying the policy effectiveness module that the network is in compliance. Otherwise if the user policy compliance value is less than the baseline network policy compliance value the policy compliance monitor measures the difference between the baseline network policy compliance value and the user policy compliance value and undertakes a network compliance action in response to the difference. Alternatively the policy compliance monitor could undertake a network compliance action anytime a policy violation occurs.

Upon recording the difference between the baseline network policy compliance value and the user policy compliance value policy compliance and reporting module records this information in network security policy database and undertakes the appropriate network compliance action. For example an organization may have a personal email use policy. The personal email use policy may limit each network user to sending a maximum of 20 personal email messages per day. The system assigns the numeric value of 95 to the personal email messages policy. A baseline value of 100 is the optimum network policy compliance value. The compliance monitor collects information on network user compliance for personal email use. If an individual sends 25 email messages the system records a user policy compliance value of 90. The user policy compliance value of 90 is compared to the baseline network policy compliance value of 100. The difference of 10 100 90 indicates to the policy effectiveness system that a network policy compliance action may be taken. In this example a network user compliance value of 10 may tell the system to execute a network compliance action.

In one embodiment the system has four action levels. Each action level may be undertaken in response to a range of differences in compliance values. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a Network Compliance Action Notice according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. At a first action level the system may send an email notifying the network user to stop the non compliant activity. At a second action level the system may prompt the system administrator to follow screen prompts to initiate procedures for a policy violation. Policy effectiveness system notifies the network user and a system administrator. Email and surface mail are automatically sent to the alleged violator and the system administrator. The message may ask the alleged violator to discontinue the inappropriate behavior or to reread an intranet base policy manual. Policy effectiveness system records if the network user visited the electronic site of the policy manual.

At a third action level the policy effectiveness system may file a policy violation report and launch an investigation. The policy effectiveness system sends email and surface mail to the alleged violator and the system administrator informing them of the violation. A policy retraining module may be the most likely course of action. At the third action level an immediate referral is made to the appropriate policy officer for review and action. At the fourth action level policy effectiveness system may restrict the network user s network access rights and prompt the system administrator to either begin investigation procedures and or initiate a signal to the policy knowledge base to determine the recommended course of action.

Block represents policy effectiveness system undertaking a network policy compliance action. Policy effectiveness system sends a signal to policy compliance and reporting to record the non compliant network user activity.

Policy compliance and reporting module provides automated policy monitoring policy violation procedures and reporting. It tracks policy investigations and generates policy investigation reports. These procedures work in conjunction with existing policy compliance reporting discipline and grievance procedures to uphold an organization s compliance policies.

Policy compliance and reporting monitors and records user and network system activities audit procedures and reporting policy violation procedures investigations and reporting and compliance non compliance status reporting.

Block represents policy compliance and reporting sending an email or pager message to the system administrator notifying the administrator that a network user compliance violation has occurred. The email message attaches a policy compliance violation report file to the email and instructs the system administrator to follow the compliance reporting procedures. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a policy compliance violation report according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. The email instructs the system administrator to log into the system present a password and hardware token to access the policy violation reporting procedures and indicates the screen option to choose. The screen options available to the system administrator may include file a policy compliance violation report investigate a policy compliance violation report review audit system reports examine an appeal process review a user profile access policy resources or policy effectiveness reports.

In a preferred embodiment a screen is displayed to the system administrator indicating that a network user policy compliance violation and a network user compliance action has occurred. If a level two or greater compliance action has been taken then the system administrator may be instructed to access the network user policy compliance violation information to document the violation. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a network policy action notice according to an embodiment of the Present Invention.

Block represents the policy compliance and reporting retrieving the network user policy compliance violation documentation from the policy effectiveness module . Policy compliance and reporting may advise the system administrator on how to execute the designated network user compliance violation reporting procedures. The system prompts the system administrator through the non compliance reporting process and presents a policy knowledge base. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a policy knowledge query according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. A support icon may be available if the user needs to discuss a specific procedure with a Policy Consultant.

Block represents the policy knowledge database of policy compliance and reporting . The policy knowledge database is comprised of automated network user policy compliance violation documentation. It may include network policy violation report forms detailed reporting instructions and investigation procedures checklist. Policy compliance and reporting analyzes the network user policy compliance violation information from the policy knowledge database and determines if investigation actions are needed.

After the system analyzes the violation information a policy violation investigation report form may be displayed on the user screen. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a policy compliance violation report according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. All reports are documented in read only format and all modifications and changes to the non compliance reports are an addendum to the initial report. The system administrator may be asked to supply the network compliance violation information the network user s name e mail address title department mail station type of violation the date of the policy violation the date of the report and the official report of the incident to the network user system administrator and in higher level non compliance cases the policy officer will be notified.

A code is assigned to the policy compliance violation report. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a policy compliance violation code and report according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting assigning a code to the policy compliance violation report. The code is used to identify and track the policy compliance violation report in the policy effectiveness database. The system administrator the policy officer and the network user are the parties that may access to the policy compliance violation report. To access the policy compliance violation report the system administrator the policy officer and the network user are given the access code to the report and are registered in the system. The system administrator can access a network user s policy compliance history report the policy compliance violation report and all communications related to the matter may automatically be sent via e mail to a third party organization and may be kept in escrow. This insures that the organization cannot access the policy compliance reports in the system to change the contents of the reports and that the organization follows due the appropriate process and procedures.

The system administrator may contact the policy officer to schedule an in person appointment with the network user. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting recording the appointment. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting scheduling the appointment. A hyperlink to a scheduling module is activated. An example of a schedule module is Microsoft s Schedule Plus. Several meeting options are listed on the violation report to be e mailed and surface mailed to the network user. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a System Violation Notice Email and Snail Mail Notice according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. The system monitors and records the reporting and investigation process in the policy effectiveness database.

All registered parties are automatically e mailed the policy compliance violation report all correspondence related to the report and the appointment date. Block the report information is distributed. A copy of the policy compliance violation report is automatically sent to policy effectiveness the system administrator the policy officer the network user and surface mail is printed and sent to the network user. The surface mail and e mail reports are form letters that may include an Internet address to inform the network user about the policy compliance violation reporting process. Policy compliance and reporting tracks and monitors the status of the complaint by monitoring the scheduling module and tracking where the report is in the system. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting distributing the policy compliance violation report information.

Printed copies of the policy compliance violation report correspondence and related documents have a watermark printed in the header of the print out of the policy compliance violation report with the words corporate record printed on the top corner of the document. The printout may include the date the document was created who created the document the version number of the report and the file path. This is used to insure the authenticity of the policy compliance violation report.

The network user is also asked to sign an agreement indicating he attended the policy enforcement meeting and reviewed the policies of the organization. The system administrator and policy officer are asked to confirm and document that the meeting took place. All parties are to complete the forms. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module reviewing subsequent action reports from the parties. The system stores the documents in the policy effectiveness database.

The system administrator is prompted by the system to confirm the subsequent action report. The subsequent action report form indicates if the network user policy compliance violation is still under investigation pending or is closed.

Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module indicating information related to the subsequent action reports. The policy compliance and reporting module monitors the status of all network user compliance violations to insure that the violation reports are properly reported and managed.

Next the internal officers are automatically prompted and sent a notice to schedule the appeal meeting with a new facilitator the network user the system administrator and the policy officer. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module prompting users to schedule an appeal meeting. The process is reported stored and tracked in the policy effectiveness module. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module recording the process. The appeal report is automatically sent to internal policy officers. The network user is automatically sent information to inform him of his procedural rights. The appeal report is automatically sent to the policy effectiveness module the policy officer and the network user. Surface mail is sent to the policy officer and the network officer. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module distributing appeal information to all parties.

The facilitator logs into the system and reviews all of the documents regarding the policy violation. The facilitator the policy officer and the network user meet to listen to the violator s appeal. The facilitator and the policy officer are required to present login and password token information to file appeal reports and to verify an appeal meeting occurred. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module retrieving appeal report forms from the policy compliance and reporting database. The appeal reports are comprised of several fields. The facilitator and the policy officer are required to complete the online reports. The policy effectiveness analyzes the appeal reports to determine the final decision. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module analyzing the appeal reports. An email is sent to all parties with the final decision file attached. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module distributing the final appeal decision. Block represents the policy compliance and reporting module transferring the appeal information to the policy effectiveness module .

Policy effectiveness module electronically collects records analyzes and stores information from policy compliance monitoring analyzes policy compliance and reporting evaluates network policy compliance actions undertaken in response to the network security policy violations and electronically implements a different network security policy selected from network security policies stored in a policy database.

Policy effectiveness module analyzes information collected from policy compliance and reporting to determine if network user compliance policies are effective. is an exemplary screen display illustrating policy effectiveness reports according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. is an exemplary screen display illustrating policy effectiveness reports according to an embodiment of the Present Invention If a policy is determined to be ineffective then a new policy may need to be implemented.

Policy effectiveness module monitors the policy compliance actions taken over a period of time. At the time the system is implemented the system administrator may set the system to measure network compliance actions that have been undertaken on a monthly quarterly annual or historic e.g. year to date basis. After the monitoring time period has been recorded in the system the system administrator may record the number of network policy compliance actions per network compliance policy considered acceptable during a specific period of time.

Policy effectiveness module analyzes the policy compliance actions stored in policy compliance and reporting module . Each policy is assigned a value representing a target baseline compliance level for network policy compliance baseline network policy compliance . In one embodiment the numeric value assigned to each monitored policy is 95 representing that for each policy 100 user compliance is required. The level of user compliance for a group of network users with respect to a particular policy is monitored. The network user compliance activity for a group has a numeric value that the system monitors representing the degree of group user policy compliance group user policy compliance . The baseline network compliance value is monitored in relation to the user compliance value stored in the network security policy database .

Each compliance action in the group is assigned a value related to a numeric value that may be reported from monitoring network user compliance. The numeric value assigned is based on the severity of the network policy compliance violation i.e. the difference between the baseline network policy compliance value and the group user policy compliance value. Upon recording the difference between the baseline network policy compliance value and the group user policy compliance value policy effectiveness module records this information in network security policy database and begins undertaking the appropriate network compliance action. This action may include electronically implementing a different network security policy selected from network security policies stored in the database generating policy effectiveness reports and providing a retraining module to network users.

For example the system administrator may have indicated that the password policy can not have more than five network compliance action occur per month. If the network compliance action is greater than five actions per month then the system sends a message to retrieve a different policy from database . The policy selected is based on indexing criteria and on the difference between the group user policy compliance and the baseline network policy compliance values. Each policy has several actions ranging from lenient to restrictive. Policy effectiveness module reviews the information collected by policy effectiveness to determine which policy to modify and the action to take. Policy effectiveness module records the policy change and sends an email message to the system administrator to confirm the policy changing process. is an exemplary screen display illustrating a policy effectiveness action according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. An enterprise wide email may be sent to all network users to alert them to the change in policy.

Policy effectiveness system includes policy resources database and software resources database to help users and administrators maintain policy compliance. is an exemplary screen display illustrating policy resources according to an embodiment of the Present Invention. Materials included in the policy resources database may include a policy reference library legal research a policy manual and a self serve policy section. The policy reference library has a search engine to help the user quickly search and find policy information. Users can contact support personnel either by email page telephony fax or telephone. It is important that users have immediate access to a support person since major policy violations may require organizations to act quickly to protect their network from damage. Internal legal and policy personnel may also access legal statutes and other related policy documentation relating to email and virtual policies in the workplace. The policy manual is presented to users so that they will be able to read and review the policy manual periodically. Users are periodically required to sign an online form indicating that he has read the policies all policy revisions and understands all of the policies. Annual updated information will be highlighted for fast review. Policy effectiveness system tracks a user s visit to the policy site. The self serve policy section allows the policy officer to revise the policy. The policy officer is prompted to access the policy database and is instructed to download a new policy when the system determines that a policy is ineffective because users are consistently out of compliance with the current policy. The new policy s are automatically added to the policy effectiveness system and the organization s policy manual. Software resources include a listing of approved software and updates and guidelines for proper use.

Users must present a password and hardware token to access policy effectiveness system . Most organizations concentrate their security resources on securing the perimeter of their network. Unfortunately the greatest threat to an organization is its employees who with network access can cause greater damage than an external intruder.

Policy effectiveness system employs an electronic tag to monitor document level access security and to track information on a per document basis. This creates the opportunity to prove document authenticity to track the copies and revisions of a document and to monitor and report document access and disclosures.

Policy effectiveness system has an online backup feature. This feature offers full redundancy without the expense of off site storage and limits the process of physically cataloging and indexing of backup tapes. Cataloging and indexing backup tapes are automatically completed by the system.

Most large organizations are not cognizant of the type of software licenses they have which workstation and or server has which software who is using what software and whether or not the organization is in compliance with their software licensing agreements. Users can easily download software from the Internet. All software is distributed with compliance conditions or restrictions of its use.

To effectively monitor an organization s software compliance periodic network audits are needed to identify deviations in the software inventory and to reconcile software license agreements with software and hardware inventories. FlexIM software by Globetrotter monitors software licenses.

Each user is registered in user profile database . User profile database includes a user s hardware and software inventory information as well as the user s name email address surface mail address employment status e.g. temp contract virtual title department organizational chart indicating who the user reports to the direct reports his assistant and mail station address. It also may indicate the software present on a user s workstation and the user s system access and security status.

User profile database also retain copies of any Employment Agreements and other employment related contracts maintains a record of the user s policy training and exam status policy compliance history network activity and any special network access or privileges such as using the network for charitable use. Additionally user profile database may also monitor software downloads from the network or Internet to hardware through network activity reports and network audits including any software approved for use by management and other special approvals. Additional user information can be monitored and collected to assist the organization s reporting needs. Policy effectiveness system includes an object library object level licensing system similar to FlexIM by Globretrotter.

Policy compliance monitor features dynamic updating and exchanging of software licensing agreements. The compliance monitor reviews all software license agreements and maintains records of the vendor information. Policy compliance monitor sends a notification to the system administrator indicating that a software license is about to expire. The system administrator is prompted to send an email to the licensing organization to update the license agreement. Once the updated license agreement is received via email then the system automatically updates the software license registered and stores it in the compliance monitor . Policy effectiveness module monitors and tracks network activity including all hardware and software in policy effectiveness system . This module can generate reports to track an organization s user access including failed login attempts all attempts to launch privileged applications any changes to system configuration parameters software downloads from the Internet software and hardware usage location of software location of software license agreements type of software agreements coordination of software license agreements with software utilization statistical and graphical information regarding justification for software purchases upgrades and maintenance expense software installations software compliance appropriateness inappropriateness and excessive use of software and hardware resources throughout the enterprise the number of people waiting for access to software applications access time value of software being used at anytime the need for upgrades the need for training projections for hardware software and licensing costs usage throughout the enterprise hardware demand predictions recommended re route of software and hardware personally installed or permitted software installation need to streamline and more effectively use under utilized system resources over utilization of system resources potential policy infringements system trends per department use and the allocation of related costs related to department.

The system records the storage location of all the software applications software manuals and software vendor information used by the organization to create documents. In the event that records or documents written in older versions of software must be produced the software will be preserved and available for use.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments of the Present Invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the Present Invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the Claims appended hereto.

