---

title: System for interactive help
abstract: Method and system for the provision of interactive assistance over a network for a user to complete a desired computing task on a user computing device. Task-guides are generated on task-guide generators operating on author user devices. Each task-guide includes a sequence of processes, each process including an action for the user to perform in association with a graphical user interface (GUI) object displayed on the user computing device. The process obtains information about the GUI object using at least one data-gathering technique. An administrator operating on a server computing device receives a task-assistance request from a task-guide executor operating on an end user device, and sends back at least one suitable task-guide over the network. The task-guide executor executes the task-guide on the end user device, displaying a sequence of instructions for the end user to follow in order to complete the desired computing task.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582132&OS=09582132&RS=09582132
owner: BOOMERSURF LLC
number: 09582132
owner_city: Bend
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131120
---
This application is related to and claims priority from commonly owned U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 728 632 and 61 869 115 both entitled System for Interactive Help filed on Nov. 20 2012 and Aug. 23 2013 the disclosures of both applications are incorporated by reference herein.

With the rapid adoption of computer technology worldwide increasing numbers of computer users are confronted with the problems of learning how to navigate new operating systems software and web content. The user typically enters a query into a designated help query window and is provided with several listings only some of which may actually include a predefined fixed set of instructions which may or may not address the problem for which the user s query was made.

The user must then perform the steps listed by the instructions on his her computer. This typically involves alternatively performing actions and reading the instructions. Such a process may frustrate the user as they fail to complete the instructions resulting in abandonment of the task or failure as the user fails to correctly follow the instructions or the instructions are inappropriate for the user s actual situation.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention there is thus provided a method for the provision of interactive assistance over a network for a user to complete a desired computing task on a user computing device. The method includes the procedure of generating a plurality of task guides each of the task guides including a sequence of processes each of the processes including at least one action for the user to perform in association with at least one graphical user interface GUI object displayed on the user computing device where the process obtains information about the GUI object using at least one data gathering technique. The method further includes the procedures of receiving from the user computing device a task assistance request over the network and sending at least one suitable task guide to the user computing device over the network. The user computing device is configured to execute the task guide to display a sequence of instructions for the user to follow in order to complete the desired computing task. The data gathering technique may include any of the following sending a request to an operating system OS application programming interface API image processing of the contents displayed on the display screen of the user computing device obtaining a GUI data structure from a library file analyzing a web page sending a request to a web browser API and obtaining information associated with a hardware component of the user computing device. The data gathering technique may be respective of at least one computing environment such as software operating system website and hardware. A task guide may be generated using at least one pre existing process. A process of a generated task guide may be defined to operate on multiple computing environments platforms preferences or settings. The generated task guides may be stored in a database that is publically accessible to a plurality of author users allowing at least a portion of the author users to generate or edit the task guides. The method may further include the procedure of obtaining data associated with at least one executed task guide from the user computing device over the network. The method may further include the procedure of updating at least one task guide in accordance with the obtained data. Updating a task guide may include any of the following altering at least one process of the task guide associating the task guide with at least one computing environment updating at least one user interface data structure associated with the task guide customizing a subsequent execution of the task guide on at least one user computing device improving the effectiveness or efficiency of the task guide and making the task guide more generic. The user computing device may be configured to store data associated with an executed task guide for customizing a future execution of the task guide on the user computing device. The method may further include the procedure of updating at least one of the task guides associated with a common application in accordance with update information obtained from the application. The method may further include the procedure of monitoring and testing at least one task guide to assess performance. The testing may include executing the task guides on a plurality of virtual machines VMs operating with different computing environments. The task assistance request may include information associated with the user computing device where the suitable task guide sent to the user computing device may be selected in accordance with the information.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is thus provided a system for the provision of interactive assistance over a network for a user to complete a desired computing task on a user computing device. The system includes a task guide generator operating on an author user computing device and an administrator operating on a server computing device. The task guide generator is configured to generate at least one task guide that includes a sequence of processes each of the processes including at least one action for the user to perform in association with at least one GUI object displayed on the user computing device where the process obtains information about the GUI object using at least one data gathering technique. The administrator is configured to receive a task assistance request over the network from an end user computing device and to send at least one suitable task guide to the end user computing device over the network. The system further includes a task guide executor operating on the end user computing device the task guide executor being configured to execute the task guide on the end user computing device displaying a sequence of instructions for the user to follow in order to complete the desired computing task. The data gathering technique may include any of the following sending a request to an operating system OS application programming interface API image processing of the contents displayed on the display screen of the user computing device obtaining a GUI data structure from a library file analyzing a web page sending a request to a web browser API and obtaining information associated with a hardware component of the user computing device. The administrator may obtain data associated with at least one executed task guide from the end user computing device over the network. The administrator may update at least one task guide in accordance with the obtained data.

The present invention provides a method and system for interactively guiding a user to perform a desired computing task by displaying customized step by step instructions to the user in a clear and straightforward manner.

Reference is now made to . is a schematic illustration of an environment generally referenced which supports a computer implemented system generally referenced for the provision of interactive assistance to a user constructed and operative in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. is a schematic illustration of an exemplary network topology for environment constructed and operative in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Environment includes at least one author user device a server device and at least one end user device . Server device is communicatively coupled with author user device and with end user device by a communications network . Environment may be considered in the framework of a client server architecture in which author user device and end user device embody clients while server device embodies a server . Server device is typically a remote computer or remote computer system machine or computer program therein that is accessible over a communications medium or network and that provides services to other computer programs and their users in the same or other computers including user devices . Author user device and end user device may be any type of computer computational device and or machine configured for two way communication with server over a communications medium or network . For example author user device or end user device may be embodied by a computing device such as a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a netbook computer a tablet computer a handheld computer a smartphone a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a portable media player a gaming console any combination of the above and the like.

Each of devices includes processors and other computer components for performing the requisite functions as detailed below and the components may be based in hardware software or combinations thereof. While a single device is shown for each of devices the functionality associated with each of these devices may also be distributed among multiple computing devices which may reside at a single location or at multiple locations. These single or multiple devices include internal memory storage media processors microprocessors and databases for performing the functions of the disclosed subject matter and or be associated with external memory storage media processors microprocessors and databases.

System includes a task guide generator an administrator and a task guide executor . System may further include a database and optionally includes a plurality of virtual machines VMs . Task guide generator and task guide executor may include software applications installed on and or adapted to be run on author user device and end user device respectively. Similarly administrator may include at least one software application installed on server device for implementing its various functions. Database and VMs are stored on server device or otherwise accessible to administrator . For example database may be stored at a first location in a memory accessible to administrator while virtual machines reside at a different location accessible to administrator .

Referring to a plurality of e.g. a total of M author user devices and a plurality of e.g. a total of N end user devices are linked with server device via a communications network . Communications network i.e. network is configured to provide for the exchange of data between the respective components of server device and user devices as necessary. Network may include for example a wired network a wireless network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metro area network MAN worldwide web WWW Internet a cellular network any combination thereof and the like.

Task guide generator allows an operator of author user device i.e. an author user to create a new task guide or to edit an existing task guide. The term task guide as used herein represents a program or script which when executed on a user computing device presents a sequence of instructions to be followed by the user to allow him her to successfully perform a desired task on the computing device. Examples of such tasks include calling a person using the Skype application adding a new contact on Skype sending a large file to somebody using the Dropbox application resizing a picture and emailing to a friend and the like.

The task guide is represented as a series of processes or sub tasks where each process includes at least one action that the user must perform in association with at least one graphical user interface GUI object that is visible on the display screen of the end user while attempting to perform the desired task. The process obtains information about the relevant GUI object s for the task using at least one data gathering technique which may be selected in accordance with the user computing environment and other factors. For example certain process data gathering techniques may be utilized when attempting to obtain information associated with a software application other process data gathering techniques may be utilized when attempting to obtain information associated with an operating system of the user computing device still other process data gathering techniques may be utilized in conjunction with an Internet website and still other process data gathering techniques may be utilized to obtain information about a hardware component of the user computing device.

One such process data gathering technique is sending a request to an operating system OS application programming interface API which may be suitable for implementing in conjunction with OS or hardware environments. Another process data gathering technique is using image processing to analyze images displayed on the display screen of the user computing device which may be suitable for implementation in software environments. Yet another process data gathering technique is obtaining a GUI data structure from a library file which may be suitable for implementation in software OS or website environments. A further process data gathering technique is extracting information by webpage analysis e.g. web scraping or web harvesting or obtaining information from a web browser API which may be suitable for a website environment. Yet a further process data gathering technique is obtaining information associated with a hardware component of the user computing device which may be suitable for implementing in a hardware environment. Examples and further elaboration of these process data gathering techniques will be provided hereinbelow.

An author user may create a new task guide using at least one pre existing process which may be publicly available and accessible to the author such as being stored in database or in a separate process database of server device . Accordingly an author user may also create a new process for a particular task guide and this process may subsequently be made available to be used if applicable in the creation of different task guides. For example an example task may be uploading a photo from a camera to Facebook . In order to create this task the author user may define the following series of processes sub tasks 1. obtain the photo from the camera 2. run the Picasa application 3. resize the photo in Picasa 4. go to website 5. upload the resized photo to the Facebook page . Thus when defining the 2process running the Picassa application the author user may utilize the more abstract pre existing processes browsing MyComputer and running a program for example. Furthermore the defined processes may be later accessed by another author user and utilized as part of another task. For example the 3process resizing photo in Picasa may be incorporated within the task of sending a photo album via Dropbox . Similarly an author user may incorporate a pre existing task guide i.e. a series of processes as part of another more complex task guide. The author user may also obtain statistical information about certain processes or task guides from administrator which may be taken into account during the creation of a new task guide.

A task guide may be created in a generic manner allowing the task guide to operate on multiple different computing environments. For example a task guide may include processes that are defined to operate respective of multiple versions of an OS e.g. Windows XP Windows Vista Windows7 Windows 8 or multiple versions of a software application e.g. Skype versions 4.x 5.x 6.x for Windows . Furthermore the processes of an individual task guide may be defined to operate respective of multiple different settings of the end user device for example regardless of language location display size font sizes and the like . In addition there may be separate task guides intended for a common task but designated for different computing environments. For example there may be one upload a photo to Facebook task guide for Windows OS another for OS X another for Linux another for iOs and another for Android.

The collection of created task guides are uploaded to and stored on database . When an operator of end user device i.e. an end user wants to receive assistance for a desired task the end user enters a request for such assistance via task guide executor . Task guide executor proceeds to transmit a search request to administrator which attempts to locate a suitable task guide stored in database for the requested task. If no suitable task guide is identified administrator may provide the end user with the closest match available e.g. for performing a similar task or may provide a set of available task guides for similar tasks for the end user to choose from. Alternatively administrator may send back a notification that there is no task guide available for the requested task. Such a notification may also be broadcast to selected author user devices for ensuring the subsequent creation of the required task guide. If administrator identifies a suitable task guide or multiple task guides in database the task guide s is delivered over network to task guide executor which then executes the task guide on end user device to display a sequence of instructions for the user to follow in order to complete the desired task.

Reference is now made to which is an illustration of a series of screenshot images displayed by an example task guide referenced demonstrating how to restart a computer in the Windows 7 OS operative in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the first step task guide depicts the windows taskbar while highlighting the Start icon at the bottom of the screen along with the text message Left click start button . Once this action has been performed the second step of task guide depicts the window that should appear next while highlighting the Shutdown tab icon and displaying the text message Hover small triangle . After the user correctly hovers over the shutdown icon the third step of task guide depicts the window that should appear next while highlighting the Restart text selection and displaying the text message Left click Restart button . Following the correct implementation of this instruction the end user will have successfully completed the task of restarting the computer thus terminating task guide .

Each task guide is composed of a sequence of processes that identifies at least one GUI object being displayed on the end user device in the course of assisting the user to complete the desired task. As discussed hereinabove these processes obtain information about the relevant GUI object s using at least one data gathering technique. One such technique involves image processing i.e. computer vision methods for acquiring processing and analyzing the screen content and to recognize desired target objects on the screen. This technique may utilize pattern matching algorithms to determine an optimal match for a predefined target. Another process data gathering technique involves analyzing the internal GUI structure of the objects in question as defined by the GUI creators. This analysis is performed by sending requests to the OS API to provide information about the GUI elements visible to the end user at a particular moment.

A given process may have a number of available options when multiple data gathering techniques are equally effective for acquiring the relevant information. Reference is now made to which is an illustration of screenshot images generally referenced depicting data gathering techniques for identifying an exemplary GUI object operative in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the example of a process is required to identify the Contacts button in the Skype application e.g. as part of a task guide which for example guides the user through the process of implementing a videoconferencing session over Skype with a selected acquaintance . Accordingly the Contacts button represents the particular GUI object that the process is attempting to identify. One possible approach involves processing and analyzing the main GUI window visible to the end user running the Skype application such as by implementing suitable pattern recognition algorithms on GUI window to identify the Contacts icon . An alternative approach involves sending a request to the Windows Automation API WAAPI to provide the internal definition of the Contacts button. Window depicts the UI tree exposed by the WAAPI in which a target can be defined by its path in the tree and its parameters. Accordingly the parameters of the Contacts button include its name i.e. Contacts and its LocalizedControlType i.e. tab item .

Each of the available process data gathering techniques may be advantageous or disadvantageous in certain situations and are therefore evaluated based on different criteria when establishing which data gathering technique s a certain process should implement and in what order. For example certain data gathering techniques such as the image processing approach may be more sensitive to different preferences or OS settings on the end user device e.g. variations in desktop background display magnification or font sizes than other data gathering techniques such as API requests which are more robust to the user preferences and settings. Conversely the image processing technique may be more robust in response to different versions of a software application whereas API requests may encounter difficulties when implemented with a software application that utilizes the API in a non standard manner. In addition the various process data gathering techniques may vary in their respective performance speeds as well as their sensitivity to different computing platforms and environments e.g. their ability to operate correctly in different operating systems or website browsers .

A specific process may incorporate a hybrid of the available data gathering techniques in order to acquire the relevant information. In general a process should obtain as much information as possible about the relevant GUI object s such as by implementing a number of suitable data gathering techniques. Reference is now made to which is an illustration of a screenshot image generally referenced of an application toolbar that includes portions that are not recognized by the OS API operative in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In the example of a process is required to identify the Printer button in the Adobe Reader application e.g. as part of a task guide which for example guides the user through the process of printing out a PDF document . The main GUI window visible to the end user running the Adobe Reader application includes a toolbar which is a UI element that does not provide API access to the interior portion thereof. Therefore a direct API request for the Printer button located within toolbar could not be implemented as the elements inside the toolbar region are not recognized by the OS API. Instead the process could use a more general API request to initially identify the toolbar region and then subsequently use an image processing technique within toolbar in order to locate the Printer icon .

When creating or editing a task guide it may be preferable to define the processes in a generic manner so as to enable the task guide to successfully operate irrespective of the specific computing environment or settings preferences employed on end user device . Since the creation of the task guide by task guide generator is performed on a specific author user device having a specific computing environment and settings the generated task guide should at a minimum be capable of operating on an end user device having the same or similar computer environment and settings e.g. another computing device running the same OS and software versions as author user device . By defining the task guide processes in a sufficiently robust manner it may be possible to ensure that the task guide also correctly operates on end user devices having a substantially different computer environment and settings than that of author user device during the creation of the task guide. For example a process may be defined to implement multiple data gathering techniques for a common objective and or to execute the data gathering techniques in a predetermined order to ensure robustness i.e. ability to operate correctly in different computing environments and user settings and efficiency e.g. performance speed consistency clarity minimalism of the executed task guide. For example referring to the example task guide discussed in i.e. demonstrating how to restart a computer in the Windows 7 OS the GUI object associated with each step of task guide may be identified in terms of an OS API request data gathering technique or in terms of an image processing data gathering technique or both . In particular an OS API request may define the given GUI object by its path in the Microsoft User Interface Automation UIA tree accessible by the WAAPI whereas an image processing approach may define the given GUI object by its pixel map.

Reference is now made to which is a diagram of an exemplary Microsoft UIA tree generally referenced exposed by the WAAPI representing objects on a desktop operative in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The portion of UIA tree depicted in includes three separate paths corresponding to the three different steps of task guide . At the edge of each path is a pixel map of the respective GUI object. In particular path and pixel map represent the Start button step path and pixel map represent the Shutdown tab step and path and pixel map represent the Restart text selection step . The root element of UIA tree represents the desktop. For each node in the tree four properties out of dozens are presented Name Class the ClassName LCT the LocalizedControlType and Rect the bounding rectangle of the element . Using the data presented in tree paths along with the pixel maps the processes of task guide can be defined in terms of OS API data gathering techniques image processing data gathering techniques or a combination of both. However some of the properties of UIA tree are strongly dependent on user preferences such as the color and size of the pixel maps and the bounding rectangles Rect of some of the UIA nodes. As a result processes that would be defined using all the data presented in would be highly sensitive to user preferences settings e.g. taskbar location display magnification screen resolution theme colors desktop background and the like . Instead a generic definition of the processes can provide robustness with respect to variations in user preferences settings. Such a generic definition can be achieved for the OS API data gathering technique by using a regular expression mechanism that defines a dynamic path inside the UIA tree. For the image processing data gathering technique a generic definition may be realized by using pattern matching that is insensitive to color and scaling.

It is noted that by incorporating different process data gathering techniques each of which may be particularly suited for a particular computing environments platforms and or user preferences settings allows for generating a more comprehensive task guide that encompasses a variety of such computing environments platforms and user preferences settings. For example an end user may seek assistance for the desired computing task of downloading images from my iPhone to a desktop computer running Windows 7 OS arranging the downloaded images in a new folder resizing the images with the Picasa application and sending the resized images via my Gmail account using Internet Explorer 8 . Accordingly a single comprehensive task guide may be generated for this task which encompasses a variety of computing environments e.g. software applications hardware devices operating systems websites by utilizing a plurality of the available process data gathering techniques e.g. OS API requests image processing GUI data structure requests web browser API or web harvesting hardware data extraction when defining the different processes that compose this particular task guide.

Following a request for assistance received from a task guide executor of a given end user device including information associated with the particular computing environment and preferences settings of end user device administrator may process the information so as to improve the process of identifying a suitable task guide. In particular administrator may take into account all the available information in order to locate and identify a task guide that is particularly suited for the actual needs of the end user i.e. the desired computing task for which assistance was requested as well as the current capabilities of the end user device e.g. the various software applications website browsers hardware components and the like that are operational and available for use with end user device . For example an end user may enter a request for help me send my friend this photo that I just took with my iPhone camera which is passed on to administrator via task guide executor along with the relevant information associated with end user device . Administrator processes and analyzes all the available information and may send back a number of relevant options to the end user in response. For example administrator may identify task guides for the following tasks sending a photo to an email account using an email application sending a photo to another phone using a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS of an instant messaging IM application and uploading a photo to selected social networking sites using the Instagram application . Administrator may simply transmit all of the suitable task guides initially to task guide executor or alternatively may send task guide executor an indication of the various options identified which are then presented to the end user. Task guide executor then proceeds to execute a selected task guide on end user device in accordance with the user instructions.

An existing task guide may cease to operate correctly over time due to changes in the user interface UI that the task guide processes interact with. Such changes may be caused for example by new updates of software versions website designs website browsers operating systems and the like. Accordingly administrator may monitor the existing task guides and perform periodic editing and updating as necessary to ensure that the task guides continue to operate correctly despite such changes. The actual editing of a task guide may be performed directly by administrator or may be delegated to a task guide generator of a selected author user device . Administrator may collect data associated with the execution of various task guides from multiple end user devices . The collected data may be subsequently processed and analyzed to obtain insights into the operation of the task guides which may be taken into account during subsequent task guide editing. For example administrator may receive information about an unsuccessful implementation of a particular data gathering technique attempt by a process of an executed task guide which can provide an indication for the need to correct or update that process e.g. such as to implement an alternative data gathering technique . The collected data may be utilized to link a particular task guide or a set of task guides with particular computing platforms environments e.g. particular versions of a software application or to update the UI data structure associated with a task guide that no longer functions. Additionally data associated with the execution of certain task guides on a particular end user device may be utilized to customize the subsequent execution of those task guides for that particular end user e.g. by providing the data and relevant instructions to the task guide executor operating on that end user device . Task guide editing may also involve enhancing an existing task guide such as by improving its effectiveness or efficiency e.g. performance speed consistency clarity or by making it more generic i.e. robust . It is noted that task guides may be edited publically by any available author user device e.g. in accordance with an open source and or crowdsourcing model . Alternatively only a subset of author users may be provided with the authorization to perform task guide editing at any given time.

Administrator may also perform periodic testing and performance assessment of the existing task guides i.e. benchmarking such as by executing a given task guide on multiple VMs operating under different computing environments and configurations e.g. different software versions different hardware different OSs different OS versions different website browsers and the like . The information obtained by such benchmarking may be utilized for editing the task guides as previously discussed and also for checking and verifying a newly created or newly edited task guide before releasing it for available execution such as to ensure its proper functioning or to prevent any potentially harmful ramifications from the task guide e.g. introducing a virus or a security breach onto an end user device .

Reference is now made to which is a flow diagram of a computer implemented method for the provision of interactive assistance to a user operative in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The method procedures are for example performed automatically but may be performed manually where indicated. The method procedures are for example performed in real time.

In procedure a plurality of task guides is generated each task guide including a sequence of processes each process including at least one action for the user to perform in association with at least one GUI object displayed on the user computing device. Referring to task guide generator of author user device generates new task guides. Each task guide represents a program which when executed on an end user device presents a sequence of instructions to be followed by the user to guide him her through the performance of a desired computing task. Each task guide is composed of a sequence of processes sub tasks . Each process includes at least one action that the user must perform in association with a GUI object visible on the display screen of end user device while attempting to perform the desired computing task. For example referring to task guide guides a user through the desired task of restarting a computer in the Windows 7 OS. Task guide includes a first process associated with an action left click for the user to perform in association with a first GUI object Start icon followed by a second process associated with an action hovering pointer to be performed with a second GUI object shutdown icon followed by a third process left click to be performed with a third GUI object Restart text selection .

In procedure the generated task guides are stored in a database. Referring to the collection of task guides generated by task guide generators of multiple author user devices are uploaded to server device and stored in database .

In procedure a task assistance request is received from a user. Referring to an operator of end user device provides task guide executor with a request for assistance with a desired computing task. Task guide executor generates a corresponding task assistance request for administrator to provide a task guide suited for the desired computing task. Administrator receives the task assistance request transmitted by task guide executor . The task assistance request may further include information associated with end user device such as the particular computing platform environment and the particular user preferences settings currently in operation on end user device in order to ensure that administrator determines a suitable or optimal task guide for the requirements of that particular end user. For example an end user requests assistance for initiating a videoconference session with an acquaintance over Skype . Task guide executor transmits a search request over network to administrator to locate an initiating videoconference task guide that is adapted to function with the Skype application in general and with Skype version 6.5.0.158 in particular for the Android version 4.4 OS running on the end user device .

In procedure at least one suitable task guide is sent to the user in response to the task assistance request. Referring to administrator attempts to locate a task guide stored in database which is intended for the requested task and which is adapted to operate under the particular requirements i.e. computing environment platform and user settings of the particular end user device . If administrator fails to locate a suitable existing task guide administrator may provide end user device with a similar task guide e.g. for performing a similar task or a set of similar task guides to choose from or may send back a notification that no task guide is available for the requested task. If however a suitable task guide is identified administrator transmits the task guide to task guide executor of end user device . Continuing with the previous example in which an end user requests assistance for initiating a videoconference session with an acquaintance over Skype administrator may fail to locate an ideal task guide adapted for this particular task and user requirements and may instead send back task guides that provide assistance for the following related tasks initiating a videoconference session using the Google Hangouts application on a device running Windows initiating a videoconference session using the Viber application on a device running Android and initiating a videoconference session using Tango on a device running Android . If administrator does locate an ideal task guide it is forwarded to task guide executor of end user device . It is noted that administrator may also identify and transmit multiple task guides in conjunction with the requested task. For example if the requested task is sending a photo of myself to an acquaintance then administrator may identify and send back a first task guide for locating a photo of the user currently stored on his computing device and a second task guide for emailing a file using Gmail where the task guide executor is instructed to execute the second task guide immediately following the first task guide.

In procedure the task guide is executed on the user computing device displaying a sequence of instructions for the user to follow in order to complete the desired computing task. Referring to task guide executor receives the task guide s transmitted by administrator and executes the task guide s on end user device . The executed task guide presents a series of steps or instructions such as the three steps of task guide demonstrating how to restart a computer in the Windows 7 OS. Each displayed step serves to guide the end user along the process of performing the desired task by providing specific and exact instructions in a clear and straightforward manner and ensuring that each step is correctly implemented before proceeding on to the next step. Once the end user has properly completed all of the instructions the task guide terminates.

In an optional procedure data associated with at least one executed task guide is obtained from a user computing device. Referring to administrator collects data associated with different task guides that were executed at multiple end users devices such as performance results and relevant parameters. The collected data may be subsequently processed and analyzed to obtain information about the task guide operation which may be taken into account during subsequent task guide editing.

In an optional procedure at least one stored task guide is monitored and tested. Referring to administrator performs periodic testing and performance assessment of the task guides i.e. benchmarking such as by executing a given task guide on multiple VMs operating under different computing environments and configurations. The information obtained from the testing may be utilized for editing the task guides and for checking and verifying newly created or newly edited task guides.

In an optional procedure at least one stored task guide is updated. Referring to a task guide generator of an author user device edits an existing task guide following instructions from administrator or by the initiative of that author user device . The task guide editing may be performed in accordance with data collected from the execution of the task guide on multiple end user devices procedure and or in accordance with data collected from testing benchmarking of the task guide procedure . Task guide editing may include linking the task guide with a particular set of computing platforms environments e.g. particular versions of a software application . Task guide editing may further include updating a task guide that has ceased to properly function e.g. due to changes or updates to a UI associated with a computing environment such as a software application or OS update such as by implementing suitable updates to the UI structure s associated with the task guide. Task guide editing may further include enhancing the effectiveness or efficiency of the task guide or augmenting the generic nature of the task guide. Furthermore updating a task guide may alternatively involve customizing a future execution of the task guide on a particular end user computing device or a set of similar end user computing devices based on data obtained about the results of the task guide execution under the same computing platform environments and user preferences setting by providing the relevant data and instructions to the task guide executor operating on that end user device s .

The above described methods and method procedures including portions thereof may be performed by software hardware and combinations thereof. These methods procedures and portions thereof may be performed by computers computing devices workstations processors micro processors other electronic searching tools and memory and other non transitory storage type devices associated therewith. The methods procedures and portions thereof can also be embodied in programmable non transitory storage media for example compact discs CDs or other discs including magnetic optical etc readable by a machine or the like or other computer usable storage media including magnetic optical or semiconductor storage or other source of electronic signals.

The methods and systems including components thereof herein have been described with exemplary reference to specific hardware and software. The methods have been described as exemplary whereby specific steps procedures and their order can be omitted and or changed by persons of ordinary skill in the art to reduce these embodiments to practice without undue experimentation. The methods and systems have been described in a manner sufficient to enable persons of ordinary skill in the art to readily adapt other hardware and software as may be needed to reduce any of the embodiments to practice without undue experimentation and using conventional techniques.

While certain embodiments of the disclosed subject matter have been described so as to enable one of skill in the art to practice the present invention the preceding description is intended to be exemplary only. It should not be used to limit the scope of the disclosed subject matter which should be determined by reference to the following claims.

