---

title: Method and device for controlling invocation of an application programming interface
abstract: A computer-implemented method for controlling invocation of application programming interface (API) is provided. The method includes categorizing a plurality of APIs according to a plurality of API categories. The API categories are categorized by an API function through which user information is obtained. The method further includes setting a default invoking permission for a respective API category, and detecting, in real time, an attempt by an application to invoke an API in the respective API category. Upon detecting the attempted invocation of the API in the API category by the application, the method further includes controlling the invoking behavior of the API by the application in accordance with the default invoking permission for the API category.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152786&OS=09152786&RS=09152786
owner: TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY LIMITED
number: 09152786
owner_city: Shenzhen, Guangdong Province
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20131113
---
This application is a continuation application of PCT Patent Application No. PCT CN2013 081516 entitled METHOD AND DEVICE FOR CONTROLLING INVOCATION OF AN APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE filed on Aug. 15 2013 which claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201210291597.0 entitled METHOD AND DEVICE FOR CONTROLLING INVOCATION OF APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE filed on Aug. 16 2012 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The disclosed implementations relate generally to the field of computer technologies and in particular to a method and a device for controlling invocation of an application programming interface API .

Applications developed for intelligent devices e.g. smart phones smart televisions tablets and the like emerge one after another. Often these applications are capable of obtaining user information for example contacts stored in an address book a geographical location of the device as determined by a global positioning system GPS etc. by invoking an API sometimes called an API call provided by an operating system. However it is not always apparent to users of such devices what sorts of information is being accessed and obtained. In some circumstances malicious applications may also perform unwanted actions through APIs for example by thieving information of a contact person surreptitiously reading the geographical location of the device monitoring phone calls made by the user or silently installing uninstalling applications. Such actions violate the privacy of the user.

In conventional methods of controlling invocation of an API by an application the user is informed of an invoking permission of an application when the application is installed. Specifically an invoking permission list of the application is sometimes listed in an installation interface of the application and the user is asked to agree to the terms of use of the application including the listed invoking permissions. If the user agrees with the terms of use the application is installed. If the user does not agree with terms of use installation of the application is canceled.

Thus there is no middle ground that allows the user to use the application but with limited permission to invoke certain APIs. Furthermore it is difficult for the user to identify whether an invoking permission in an invoking permission list is necessary for an application and most users neglect presentation of the invoking permission list when an application is installed and directly agree to install the application which leads to the application maliciously obtaining user information. As a result the security of the device is reduced and the user experience is affected.

To address the aforementioned problems some implementations of the present invention provide a computer implemented method for controlling invocation of an application programming interface API . The method includes categorizing a plurality of APIs according to a plurality of API categories. The API categories are categorized by an API function through which user information is obtained. The method further includes setting a default invoking permission for a respective API category and detecting in real time an attempt by an application to invoke an API in the respective API category. Upon detecting the attempted invocation of the API in the API category by the application the method further includes controlling the invoking behavior of the API by the application in accordance with the default invoking permission for the API category.

To address the aforementioned problems some implementations of the present invention provide an electronic device. The electronic device includes one or more processors memory and one or more programs. The one or more programs are stored in memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors. The one or more programs include an operating system and instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the electronic device to categorize a plurality of APIs according to a plurality of API categories. The API categories are categorized by an API function through which user information is obtained. The electronic device further sets a default invoking permission for a respective API category and detects in real time an attempt by an application to invoke an API in the respective API category. Upon detecting the attempted invocation of the API in the API category by the application the electronic device controls the invoking behavior of the API by the application in accordance with the default invoking permission for the API category.

To address the aforementioned problems some implementations of the present invention provide a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs. The one or more programs include instructions which when executed by an electronic device with one or more processors and memory cause the electronic device to categorize a plurality of APIs according to a plurality of API categories. The API categories are categorized by an API function through which user information is obtained. The electronic device further sets a default invoking permission for a respective API category and detects in real time an attempt by an application to invoke an API in the respective API category. Upon detecting the attempted invocation of the API in the API category by the application the electronic device controls the invoking behavior of the API by the application in accordance with the default invoking permission for the API category.

The present invention provides a method for controlling invocation of an API. The method controls the invocation of an API by an application running on a device. Specifically rather than merely having a user of the device agree to allow the application to access information obtained using API when the application is installed the implementations described herein provide a method and device that grants the user a more finely granular level of control over what sorts of information is being accessed by applications running on the device.

To that end the methods and devices described herein categorize APIs according to their function namely according to the type of user information the APIs are capable of obtaining . For example a set of one or more APIs may be categorized as Location Data APIs if they are capable of interacting with e.g. a global position system of the device to return data pertaining to the location of the device. The methods and devices described herein provide a manner with which the user can set a default permission for each API categories such that for example applications are allowed to invoke APIs within the API category or are prohibited from invoking APIs within the API category. In some circumstances the user may also configure the device to ask the user for further instructions each time an API in the API category is invoked.

Reference will now be made in detail to various implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure and the described implementations herein. However implementations described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and mechanical apparatus have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the implementations.

Referring to some implementations provide a method for controlling invocation of an API. In some embodiments the method is implemented in one or more software modules of an electronic device . The method is as follows 

Furthermore controlling the invoking behavior of the application on the API according to the invoking permission includes 

if the invoking permission is a prohibition permission prohibiting the application from invoking the API or

if the invoking permission is prompt permission prompting a user to set a current invoking permission and if the user sets the current invoking permission to the access permission permitting the application to invoke the API this time or if the user sets the current invoking permission to the prohibition permission prohibiting the application from invoking the API this time.

Furthermore in some implementations after the prompting the user to set the current invoking permission the method further includes 

if a result set by the user is not received in preset time prohibiting the application from invoking the API this time.

Furthermore in some implementations after prompting the user to set the current invoking permission the method further includes 

if the user sets it to remember a current selection result when it is detected again that the API is invoked by the application controlling the invoking behavior of the application on the API according to the current selection result of the user.

Furthermore in some implementations after the setting the default invoking permission for each category the method further includes 

when a request of the user for setting an invoking permission for an API category capable of being invoked by the application is received prompting the user to select an invoking permission from an access permission a prohibition permission and a prompt permission and setting an invoking permission of the application to the API category according to a selection result of the user.

Furthermore in some implementations when the request of the user for setting the invoking permission for an API category capable of being invoked by the application is received the method further includes prompting the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission. In some implementations the prompt permission further includes 

when the user starts an invoking permission setting function displaying each API category receiving an API category selected by the user displaying all applications capable of invoking the API category receiving an application selected by the user and prompting the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission and the prompt permission or

when the user starts an invoking permission setting function displaying each application receiving an application selected by the user displaying all API categories capable of being invoked by the application receiving an API category selected by the user and prompting the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission and the prompt permission.

According to the method a designated API set is collected. APIs in the API set are categorized according to a function and a default invoking permission is set for each category. Invocation of an API in the API set is monitored in real time and if it is detected that an API in the API set is invoked by an application an invoking permission of the application to the API is obtained and an invoking behavior of the application on the API is controlled according to the invoking permission so as to 1 avoid the problem of the application maliciously obtaining user information 2 improve the security of a device and further 3 improve user experience.

By setting the invoking permission to prompt every time the user is prompted to set a current invoking permission and the invoking permission can be set according to a current invoking behavior so as to improve the flexibility of setting the invoking permission and in addition if a result set by the user is not received in preset time the application is prohibited from invoking the API so as to reduce the operating complexity of setting the invoking permission and further improve the user experience.

Referring to some implementation provides a method for controlling invocation of an API. In some embodiments the method is implemented in one or more software modules of an electronic device . The method is as follows 

In some circumstances the user information is private information about the user and may include call records a text messages and metadata user contacts and the geographical location of the device. An application of the device may obtain the user information through an API. In some circumstances the API is a predefined interface function and the application obtains the user information by invoking the interface function. Generally an API is an interface for obtaining one kind of user information for example a call record API is an interface for obtaining a call record a geographical location API is an interface for obtaining the geographical location of the device and so on.

In this implementation user information that needs to be protected may be designated in advance and the device searches for APIs according to the one or more kinds of designated user information and combines the resultant APIs into an API set.

In some implementations an application can obtain the user information by invoking an API. Some APIs however are not necessary for use of the application. For example an application that provides a user with restaurant reviews may have features that access location information from the device e.g. in order to obtain listing of nearby restaurants. However the application need not have the location information to operate. For example in another mode of operation the application could locate restaurants near a user specified location e.g. a manually specified location . In order to prevent an application from invoking these unnecessary APIs to obtain the user information which causes leakage of the user information an invoking permission may be set for an API. For example by limiting the invoking permissions of the restaurant review application the user can continue to use the restaurant review application while preventing it from obtaining location data from the device.

In some implementations the function refers to a function implemented by an API which also correspondingly reflects a function of an application invoking the API. For example the API set includes a call record API a contact person API a recording API a device identification code API and a device model API. When the APIs are categorized the call record API and the contact person API may be combined into a call API category the recording API can be combined into a recording API category the device identification code API and the device model API can be combined into a system API category and so on.

Furthermore in some implementations when the default invoking permission is set for each API category it may be set according to a function of the API category. For example an application providing a call function has access permission to the call API category by default or an application providing a voice function has access permission to the recording API category by default and so on.

The user may set the invoking permission for invoking the API category by the application so that when the application invokes the API category the device controls the invoking behavior to be more close to a habit of the user thereby improving user experience.

Furthermore before the invoking permission for invoking the API category by the application is set the device may display the application and the API category on a user interface so that the user can perform a setting behavior. Some implementation provide two methods for displaying the application and the API category which are displaying each API category on the interface and displaying under each API category all applications capable of invoking the API category or displaying each application on the interface and displaying under each application all API categories capable of being invoked by the application.

According to the two display methods provided above when a request of a user for setting an invoking permission for an API category capable of being invoked by an application is received prompting the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission and the prompt permission includes 

when the user starts an invoking permission setting function displaying each API category receiving an API category selected by the user displaying all applications capable of invoking the API category receiving an application selected by the user and prompting the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission and the prompt permission or

when the user starts an invoking permission setting function displaying each application receiving an application selected by the user displaying all API categories capable of being invoked by the application receiving an API category selected by the user and prompting the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission and the prompt permission.

Specifically the device may add a monitor process e.g. running in the background of the device to monitor whether an API in the API set is invoked.

In some implementations if it is detected that the application invokes the API an invoking permission of the application to an API category to which the API belongs is obtained so as to obtain the invoking permission of the application to the API and the invoking behavior of the application on the API is controlled according to the invoking permission.

In some implementations controlling an invoking behavior of the application on the API according to the invoking permission includes 

if the invoking permission is the prohibition permission prohibiting the application from invoking the API or

if the invoking permission is the prompt permission prompting a user to set a current invoking permission and if the user sets the current invoking permission to the access permission permitting the application to invoke the API this time or if the user sets the current invoking permission to the prohibition permission prohibiting the application from invoking the API this time.

Furthermore in some implementations after the prompting a user to set a current invoking permission the method further includes 

if a result set by the user is not received in preset time prohibiting the application from invoking the API this time.

In some implementations preset time is set voluntarily for example the preset time may be set to 10 s or the preset time is changed to 15 s and so on.

In this implementation the method further includes after the prompting a user to set a current invoking permission if the user sets it to remember a current selection result when it is detected again that the API is invoked by the application controlling the invoking behavior of the application on the API according to the selection result of the user.

If the user sets it to remember the current selection result the selection result of the user is always valid until the user changes the invoking permission to the API category to which the API belongs or if the user does not set it to remember the current selection result the current selection result is only aimed at the current invoking behavior and when the API is invoked next time the user is still prompted to set an invoking permission.

In some implementations if the user sets the current invoking permission to the access permission and configures the device to remember the selection the application is permitted to invoke the API if the user sets the current invoking permission to the prohibition permission and remember the selection the application is prohibited from invoking the API or if the result set by the user is not received in the preset time and the setting of remembering the selection is received the application is prohibited from invoking the API.

According to the method a designated API set is collected in advance APIs in the API set are categorized according to a function and a default invoking permission is set for each category whether an API in the API set is invoked is monitored in real time and if it is detected that an API in the API set is invoked by an application an invoking permission of the application to the API is obtained and an invoking behavior of the application on the API is controlled according to the invoking permission so as to 1 avoid applications maliciously obtaining user information 2 improve the security of a device and further 3 improve user experience.

By setting the invoking permission to prompt every time a user is prompted to set a current invoking permission and an invoking permission can be set according to a current invoking behavior so as to improve the flexibility of setting the invoking permission and in addition if a result set by the user is not received in preset time the application is prohibited from invoking the API so as to reduce the operating complexity of setting the invoking permission and further improve the user experience.

Referring to some implementations provides a device for controlling the invoking of an API. The device includes 

a collection module configured to collect a designated API set in advance where the API set includes an API capable of obtaining user information of a device the collection module in some implementations performs the method of .

a categorizing module configured to categorize APIs in the API set according to a function and set a default invoking permission for each category. The APIs in each category are assigned the default invoking permission of the API category.

a control module configured to if it is detected that an API in the API set is invoked by an application obtain an invoking permission of the application to the API and control an invoking behavior of the application on the API according to the invoking permission.

a first control unit A configured to if the invoking permission is the access permission permit the application to invoke the API 

a second control unit B configured to if the invoking permission is the prohibition permission prohibit the application from invoking the API and

a third control unit C configured to if the invoking permission is prompt every time prompt a user to set a current invoking permission and if the user sets the current invoking permission to the access permission permit the application to invoke the API this time or if the user sets the current invoking permission to prohibition prohibit the application from invoking the API this time.

In this implementation the third control unit C is further configured to after prompting the user to set the current invoking permission if a result set by the user is not received in preset time prohibit the application from invoking the API this time.

In this implementation the third control unit C is further configured to if the user sets it to remember a current selection result when it is detected that the API is invoked by the application again control the invoking behavior of the application on the API according to the selection result of the user.

a setting module configured to after the categorizing module sets the default invoking permission for each category when a request of a user for setting an invoking permission for an API category capable of being invoked by an application is received prompt the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission and the prompt permission and set an invoking permission of the application to the API category according to a selection result of the user.

when the user starts an invoking permission setting function display each API category receive an API category selected by the user display all applications capable of invoking the API category receive an application selected by the user and prompt the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission and the prompt permission or

when the user starts an invoking permission setting function display each application receive an application selected by the user display all API categories capable of being invoked by the application receive an API category selected by the user and prompt the user to select an invoking permission from the group consisting of the access permission the prohibition permission and the prompt permission.

The foregoing device for controlling invoking of an API that is provided in this implementation can perform the method for controlling invoking of an API according to any one of the foregoing method implementations and for a specific procedure reference is made to the descriptions in the method implementations which is not elaborated herein again.

According to the device for controlling invoking of an API that is provided in this implementation a designated API set is collected in advance APIs in the API set are categorized according to a function and a default invoking permission is set for each category whether an API in the API set is invoked is monitored in real time and if it is detected that an API in the API set is invoked by an application an invoking permission of the application to the API is obtained and an invoking behavior of the application on the API is controlled according to the invoking permission so as to avoid a problem that an application maliciously obtains user information improve the security of a device and further improve user experience.

By setting the invoking permission to the prompt permission a user is prompted to set a current invoking permission and an invoking permission can be set according to a current invoking behavior so as to improve the flexibility of setting the invoking permission and in addition if a result set by the user is not received in preset time the application is prohibited from invoking the API so as to reduce the operating complexity of setting the invoking permission and further improve the user experience.

It should be noted that when the device for controlling invoking of an API that is provided by the foregoing implementation exists only division of the foregoing functional modules is taken as an example for illustration and in an actual application the foregoing functions may be accomplished by different functional modules as required that is the internal structure of the device is divided into different functional modules so as to accomplish all or a part of the functions in the foregoing description. In addition the device for controlling invoking of an API that is provided by the foregoing implementation belongs to the same concept as the implementation of the method for controlling invoking of an API and for a specific implementation process reference is made to the method implementation which is not elaborated herein again.

The device categorizes a plurality of APIs according to a plurality of API categories. The API categories are categorized by an API function through which user information is obtained. For example the Location Data API category may include APIs that return a set of GPS coordinates of the device or embed an interactive map within an application of the device.

Operations and represent an first path to reach operation as described below. In some implementations the device displays a listing of a plurality of applications including a respective application capable of invoking at least one API in a respective API category. For example illustrates a listing of a plurality of apps e.g. a maps app a news app and a web app . The maps app is capable of invoking location data using an API. The device then detects selection of the respective application e.g. the touch input . In some implementations in response to detecting the selection of the respective application the device displays a listing of one or more API categories that includes the respective API category e.g. as shown in . In some implementations the one or more API categories are those API categories that include at least one API that the respective application is capable of invoking. As shown in the device displays a plurality of selectable affordances e.g. selectable affordances FIG. B . Each selectable affordance in the plurality of selectable affordances corresponding to an invoking permission. In some implementations the invoking permissions include an access permission a prohibition permission and a prompt permission. For example selectable affordance corresponds to an access permission also called an allow permission .

Operations and represent a second path to reach operation as described below. Although the first and second paths are described as being separate in some circumstances various elements or aspects of the first path may be used in the second path and visa versa.

In some implementations the device displays a listing of one or more API categories that includes a respective API category. For example illustrates a listing of one or more API categories that include the Location Data API category. The device detects a user input corresponding to selection of the respective API category. In some implementations in response to detecting the user input corresponding to selection of the respective API category the device displays a listing of one or more applications configured to invoke at least one API in the API category. For example illustrates a listing of one or more applications configured to invoke at least one API in the Location Data API category e.g. an API that returns a set of GPS coordinates for the device . The device displays a plurality of selectable affordances e.g. selectable affordances . Each selectable affordance in the plurality of selectable affordances corresponding to an invoking permission. In some implementations the invoking permissions include an access permission a prohibition permission and a prompt permission. For example selectable affordance corresponds to an access permission also called an allow permission .

In some implementations the device detects selection of a respective selectable affordance. The device then sets a default invoking permission for the respective API category. In some implementations the device sets the default invoking permission to the invoking permission corresponding to the respective selectable affordance.

The device detects in real time an attempt by an application to invoke an API in the respective API category. Upon detecting the attempted invocation of the API in the API category by the application as shown in the device controls the invoking behavior of the API by the application in accordance with the default invoking permission for the API category. Specifically in some implementations when the invoking permission of the respective API category is set to the access permission the device allows the application to invoke the API. When the invoking permission of the respective API category is set to the prohibition permission the device prohibits the application from invoking the API. When the invoking permission of the respective API category is set to the prompt permission upon detecting the attempted invocation of the API the device prompts a user to set a current invoking permission to one of the access permission or the prohibition permission. In some implementations the device also prompts the user to declare whether the current invoking permission should replace the default permission e.g. the device asks the user if it should remember the choice . In some implementations after prompting the user to set the current invoking permission if a response is not received from the user within a predetermined amount of time the device automatically e.g. without user intervention sets the current invoking permission to the prohibition permission. In any event the device controls the invoking behavior of the API by the application in accordance with the current invoking permission for the API category.

In some implementations memory or the non transitory computer readable storage medium of memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof including an operating system a network communication module and an API permission management module .

The operating system includes procedures for handling various basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations a set of APIs is also provided with the operating system. The APIs can be used to access information from the device including in some circumstances user information such as information about a user s contacts location information call record information etc.

The network communication module facilitates communication with other devices via the one or more communication network interfaces wired or wireless and one or more communication networks such as the internet other wide area networks local area networks metropolitan area networks and so on.

In some implementations the API permission management module is configured to categorize e.g. with a categorizing module a plurality of APIs according to a plurality of API categories. The API categories are categorized by an API function through which user information is obtained e.g. a function that is capable of obtaining user contact information location information call record information etc. . The API permission management module is further configured to set e.g. with a setting module a default invoking permission for a respective API category e.g. to an access permission a prohibition permission or a prompt permission . The API permission management module is configured to detect e.g. with a monitoring detecting module in real time an attempt by an application to invoke an API in the respective API category e.g. an API call from an application such as a Maps Direction application . Upon detecting the attempted invocation of the API in the API category by the application the API permission management module is configured control e.g. with a controlling module the invoking behavior of the API by the application in accordance with the default invoking permission for the API category e.g. by allowing the API invocation if the permission is an access permission or conversely prohibiting the API invocation if the permission is the prohibition permission .

To that end the categorizing module includes a set of instructions and heuristics and metadata . For example metadata can include user defined information used to categorize APIs. Similarly the setting module includes a set of instructions as well as metadata and heuristics monitoring detecting module includes a set of instructions and metadata and heuristics and controlling module includes a set of instructions and metadata and heuristics . In some implementations the set of instructions of the setting module include instructions for providing a user interface e.g. one or more of the user interfaces shown in for setting API permissions.

The above disclosures are merely preferred implementations of the present invention but are not intended to limit the scope of the claims of the present invention. Any equivalent change made according to the claims of the present invention modification still falls within the scope of the present invention.

While particular implementations are described above it will be understood it is not intended to limit the invention to these particular implementations. On the contrary the invention includes alternatives modifications and equivalents that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter presented herein. But it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the implementations.

Although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example first ranking criteria could be termed second ranking criteria and similarly second ranking criteria could be termed first ranking criteria without departing from the scope of the present invention. First ranking criteria and second ranking criteria are both ranking criteria but they are not the same ranking criteria.

The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or in response to detecting that a stated condition precedent is true depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined that a stated condition precedent is true or if a stated condition precedent is true or when a stated condition precedent is true may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or upon detecting or in response to detecting that the stated condition precedent is true depending on the context.

Although some of the various drawings illustrate a number of logical stages in a particular order stages that are not order dependent may be reordered and other stages may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific implementations. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The implementations were chosen and described in order to best explain principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various implementations with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Implementations include alternatives modifications and equivalents that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject matter presented herein. But it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the implementations.

