---

title: Remote latency adjustment
abstract: A method and system may allow for adjusting network latency experienced by a user. A first computing device may send a request to adjust the latency experienced by a terminal associated with a user. The request may be received at a second computing device which may identify a buffer size for the terminal associated with the user. A new buffer size may be determined and adjusted for the identified buffer based on the received request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565139&OS=09565139&RS=09565139
owner: Comcast Cable Communications, LLC
number: 09565139
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
High latency has become a complex problem for modern day networks. Network users continue to demand high bandwidth access. However as the bandwidth increases buffer sizes also increase which has an unintended consequence of increasing latency due to delays in filling the much larger buffers. For example a small buffer fills up quickly and hence packets are not stored as long. However as the buffer fills flow control limits the connection speed associated with the buffer. A large buffer takes much longer to fill and hence supports much higher connections. However as the larger buffer fills up latency is increased substantially. As the latency increases to provide higher bandwidth the latency can have detrimental effects on a number of software applications. For instance applications that require faster real time communication e.g. real time applications such as video gaming video conferencing IP telephony etc. can be significantly impacted by a high latency connection. If the latency increases beyond a certain level pauses delays and jitter may be encountered and in some cases a connection may be lost.

Further even where the connection is maintained often the quality will degrade as the codec switches to a much lower speed and or lower resolution image voice mode to attempt to correct for the latency issues. Hence quality suffers and the user s experience is impacted. While some systems attempted to address latency with quality of service QoS priority settings these QoS priority settings are different on every network difficult to manage on a global network are not supported on a universal basis and do not fully address the latency issues e.g. associated with buffer size. Accordingly there is a need to better manage networks including needs to manage latency to lessen its negative effects on performance to improve user experience and to implement a system that works universally and globally.

The following summary is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to limit or constrain the detailed description.

In illustrative examples a computing device such as termination system may assign each user and each application a uniform buffer size based on the bandwidth of the connection. This buffer size is optimized for the highest throughput typically with a large buffer size. This buffer size may be conventionally not optimized for different user preferences and or application requirements. In order to accommodate real time applications or other applications requiring quick communications in accordance with the present examples embodiments introduce the ability to manually or dynamically adjust the buffer size to an appropriate size optimized to the application. For example where the application is a real time computer game having a centralized server located at a certain geographic distance from the terminal desiring to use the server the application the data services provider administrator and or the user may request an appropriate buffer size to optimize performance for that application and or the particular geographic distance in conjunction with the desired application.

In one embodiment a service provider may provide a user with an application that allows the user to manually control characteristics of his own network connection. For example a user may be presented with mode change buttons allowing the user to select modes such as 1 Gaming mode e.g. a low latency low bandwidth mode 2 VoIP mode e.g. a low latency low bandwidth mode 3 video conference mode e.g. a low latency medium bandwidth mode and or 4 a data transfer mode e.g. a high bandwidth high latency mode . These and other modes may be accessed and selected via any interface such as a smartphone computer display device keyboard remote control gaming console tablet interface and or other suitable device.

In some embodiments a first computing device may send a request to adjust the latency experienced by a terminal modem associated with a user. The request may include a requested latency mode for the terminal and identification information that uniquely identifies the terminal e.g. a MAC address . The request may be received at a second computing device such as a termination system e.g. a cable modem termination system CMTS or an optical line terminal OLT etc. . The second computing device may identify an appropriate buffer size for the terminal associated with the user based on for example information provided by the terminal application and or user where the buffer stores data to be sent to the terminal or data sent from the terminal. A buffer size may be determined for the identified buffer based on the requested latency mode. A size for the identified buffer may be adjusted up or down based on the determined buffer size requested by the terminal application and or user.

In some embodiments the terminal may select a default and or current latency mode from a plurality of latency modes. A request from the terminal may comprise a request to change the default and or current latency mode. The plurality of latency modes may have predetermined buffer sizes. Alternatively these buffer sizes may be varied and or altered based on a feedback control loop established with the application terminal and or user. For example in a video conference call one user may have a static video screen where the user is sitting still and not moving in the image or completely off camera. Another user may be walking down the street riding a bike driving a car boat and require a much different connection. The buffer may be adjusted to provide the optimal performance of bandwidth and or latency based on manual or automatic feedback such as feedback from the application terminal codec and or a feedback from control loop and or other intelligent agent in the local modem and or terminal.

In some embodiments latency management may be based on a particular device identifier e.g. MAC address and or on a particular channel or communication link identified as being associated with a particular MAC address. For example in certain embodiments the identification information may comprise MAC address information and or MAC address information in conjunction with channel information that identifies one or more channels for the terminal associated with the user. In still further embodiments certain channels may be reserved for certain types of applications. Thus in these embodiments the termination system may be able to ascertain the types of communications and or associated latency requirements from the channel utilized by the application. Thus the buffer characteristics in the termination system may be further identified based on the associated channel used by the terminal user and or application.

In some embodiments a current latency mode for a terminal associated with a user may be determined and may be displayed to a user. For example an application running on a terminal associated with a modem may be able to query the termination system e.g. CMTS OLT etc. about a current status of a latency mode associated with the user MAC address channel and or terminal. In certain embodiments the termination system may maintain individual buffers for each user MAC address channel and or terminal. In this event a user terminal and or application may be able to query the termination system as to the current latency state of the communication mode and then request a change in that mode. In this manner the individual user terminal and or application may impact the buffer size allocated by the termination system. This communication may be initiated through a standard application programming interface and or built into a modem communication protocol in future versions for example into a DOCSIS protocol or any other data transmission. Thus changes in latency mode may be standardized for all applications connected to the termination system and or utilized through standard application programming interfaces and or modem command interfaces. In one exemplary embodiment a latency adjustment API may include as parameters certain identification information e.g. a MAC address and or channel capability to request for current latency mode and or request for a change in latency mode request for an interactive feedback control system to determine an optimal latency mode for a particular application device.

In some embodiments a computing device may monitor or be monitored for an application that has a preferred latency mode and the request for a predetermined latency mode and or the display for a manual latency mode may be triggered by a detection of such an application. In alternate embodiments the modem and or termination system may perform a packet inspection and automatically reconfigure its latency mode for any particular MAC address and or channel combination based on the type of traffic being sent at any particular instance in time. In these embodiments the packet inspection may occur for example in the termination system and or in a modem and or home gateway.

Unlike QoS priority systems a change in buffer size associated with an individual MAC address and or channel has no impact on other users of the system and or overall complexity of the system. The change of buffer size may be implemented on the termination system with no impact on other users and or the overall termination system. Termination systems in accordance with embodiments include an interface that allows a user modem terminal and or application to request a change in buffer size. Thus termination systems described herein dynamically set buffer size associated with for example a MAC address and or channel based upon requests and or feedback from an customer premises device and or analysis of traffic coming from a customer premises device.

In still further embodiments the latency mode allows for additional revenue models associated with high bandwidth services. For example certain users such as gamers may pay a premium to be able to have the highest scores in interactive on line gaming. Gamers may pay for example a premium e.g. 5 month for the ability to have much less latency when playing their desired game. These users may be provided with a competitive advantage over other users and such may distinguish one service provider from another.

In still further embodiments the low latency mode may be replicated in other network equipment beyond the termination system such as throughout the internal and external routers between the customer premises equipment and or the server. For example the API request for a low latency mode e.g. gaming mode may be built into the routers operating system such as Junos IOS and or NX. In this manner the request for a low latency connection may be forwarded and replicated across the entire network path between the customer premises equipment and the server e.g. a gaming server .

In still further embodiments the latency mode may be reset to a default mode automatically after a predetermined period of time. This default mode may be user defined and or determined by the termination system terminal user modem and or home gateway.

Embodiments of described herein may easily be added to any computing device such as to every modem termination system gateway router user device such as a smartphone or gaming console and or other network and or server device. By defining appropriate API s and requesting that vendors implement the APIs to implement latency modes in accordance with the embodiments herein these features may become universally available across the entire network vastly improving the user experience.

In still further embodiments latency across a network e.g. a MPLS network can vary with frame size. For example where smaller frames are utilized such as an 86 byte frame latency may be as small as 0.025 seconds. However as frame and throughput increases latency may also increase. For example when using a frame size of 1518 bytes latency may be 10 times as much such as 0.25 s.

In still further embodiments interface termination system may be configured to request a smaller packet size. For example by using the Packet Too Big message in IPv6 the interface termination system may cause the user device to output smaller packet sizes thus resulting in lower overall latency across the entire packet network and or Internet.

As noted above this Summary is merely a summary of some of the features described herein. It is not exhaustive and it is not to be a limitation on the claims. Further embodiments are described below.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying figures in which are shown various illustrative embodiments. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

There may be one link originating from the central communication system and it may be split a number of times to distribute the signal to various premises in the vicinity which may be many miles of the central communication system . The links may include components not illustrated such as splitters filters amplifiers etc. to help convey the signal clearly but in general each split introduces a bit of signal degradation. Portions of the links may also be implemented with fiber optic cable while other portions may be implemented with coaxial cable other lines or wireless communication paths.

The central communication system may include an interface such as interface e.g. a termination system such as a CMTS . In an example of a hybrid fiber and coaxial cable HFC system the interface may be a cable modem termination system CMTS or an OLT which may be a computing device configured to manage communications between devices on the network of links and backend devices such as servers to be discussed further below . For example central communication system may be a service provider that provides Internet service to premises . The interface may be as specified in a standard such as the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS standard published by Cable Television Laboratories Inc. a.k.a. CableLabs or it may be a similar or modified device instead. The interface may be configured to place data on one or more downstream frequencies to be received by modems at the various premises and to receive upstream communications from those modems on one or more upstream frequencies.

The central communication system may also include one or more network interfaces which can permit the central communication system to communicate with various other external networks . These networks may include for example networks of internet and or Internet devices telephone networks cellular telephone networks fiber optic networks local wireless networks e.g. WiMAX satellite networks intranets and or any other desired networks and the network interface may include the corresponding circuitry needed to communicate on the external networks and or to other devices on these networks such as a cellular telephone network and its corresponding cell phones.

As noted above the central communication system may include a variety of servers that may be configured to perform various functions. For example the central communication system may include a push notification server . The push notification server may generate push notifications to deliver data and or commands to the various premises in the network or more specifically to the devices in the premises that are configured to detect such notifications . The central communication system may also include a content server . The content server may be one or more computing devices that are configured to provide content to users at their premises. This content may be for example video on demand movies television programs songs text listings etc. The content server may include software to validate user identities and entitlements to locate and retrieve requested content to encrypt the content and to initiate delivery e.g. streaming of the content to the requesting user s and or device s .

The central communication system may also include one or more application servers . An application server may be a computing device configured to offer any desired service and may run various languages and operating systems e.g. servlets and JSP pages running on Tomcat MySQL OSX BSD Ubuntu Redhat HTML5 JavaScript AJAX and COMET . For example an application server may be responsible for collecting television program listings information and generating a data download for electronic program guide listings. Another application server may be responsible for monitoring user viewing habits and collecting that information for use in selecting advertisements. Yet another application server may be responsible for formatting and inserting advertisements in a video stream being transmitted to the premises .

In some embodiments an application server may comprise a video game server. For example a computing device e.g. video game console laptop desktop tablet etc. may include a game application that may communicate with one or more video game servers over network link . Although shown separately one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the push server content server and application server may be combined. Further here the push server content server and application server are shown generally and it will be understood that they may each contain memory storing computer executable instructions to cause a processor to perform steps described herein and or memory for storing data.

An example premises such as a home may include an interface . The interface can include any communication circuitry needed to allow a device to communicate on one or more links with other devices in the network. For example the interface may include a modem which may include transmitters and receivers used to communicate on the links and with the central communication system . The modem may be for example a coaxial cable modem for coaxial cable lines a fiber interface node for fiber optic lines twisted pair telephone modem cellular telephone transceiver satellite transceiver local wi fi router or access point or any other desired modem device. Also although only one modem is shown in a plurality of modems operating in parallel may be implemented within the interface . Further the interface may include a gateway interface device . The modem may be connected to or be a part of the gateway interface device . The gateway interface device may be a computing device that communicates with the modem s to allow one or more other devices in the premises to communicate with the central communication system and other devices beyond the central communication system . The gateway may be a set top box STB digital video recorder DVR computer server or any other desired computing device. The gateway may also include not shown local network interfaces to provide communication signals to requesting entities devices in the premises such as display devices e.g. televisions additional STBs personal computers laptop computers wireless devices e.g. wireless routers wireless laptops notebooks tablets and netbooks cordless phones e.g. Digital Enhanced Cordless Telephone DECT phones mobile phones mobile televisions personal digital assistants PDA etc. landline phones e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phones and any other desired devices. Examples of the local network interfaces include Multimedia Over Coax Alliance MoCA interfaces Ethernet interfaces universal serial bus USB interfaces wireless interfaces e.g. IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.15 analog twisted pair interfaces Bluetooth interfaces and others. Any of interface modem gateway display device set top box personal computer laptop computer wireless device or landline may comprise a terminal connected to network link . One or more computing devices at premises may comprise a user to a service e.g. Internet service provided by a service provider e.g. central communication system .

In exemplary embodiments a user device at premises may adjust network latency by communicating with interface such as with controller and or database in order to modify buffer s . For example buffer s may comprise a plurality of adjustable buffer sizes and controller may adjust the size of buffer s based on a received request MAC addresses and or associated channels feedback input and or its own packet inspection. One or more of Buffer s may be associated with one or more terminals MAC address channels and may store network data received from the terminals and or may store network data to be sent to the terminals. Database may store information for example subscription information about users MAC addresses default parameters associated with latency channels applications and or other information helpful in making decisions about latency. Controller may access database in order to for example determine a buffer size for a terminal that is associated with a user and or perform a packet inspection e.g. packet type inspection packet payload inspection etc. in order to optimize buffer size. In some embodiments computing device and database may be implemented by and or or communicatively coupled to interface .

Example processes of adjusting latency are described further below in with reference to . In some embodiments a user e.g. a user device at premises may subscribe to a service from a service provider e.g. central communication system where the service provider may provide cable Internet phone a combination of these services or any other suitable service to the user. In an example interface located at a central communication system may communicate with a user device at premises e.g. modem gateway and any of the associated devices and or to adjust the network latency experienced by the user.

In some embodiments the service provider may provide Internet service to a user. For example a package may indicate that the user is to receive a predetermined network bandwidth e.g. a 100 Mbps Megabits per second download bandwidth and a 20 Mbps upload bandwidth or a dynamic bandwidth that changes based on conditions e.g. network congestion etc. . The subscription package information may also include additional information about the user and the Internet service for the user e.g. physical location MAC address for terminals etc. Subscription package information may be stored in database . Further database may include information about user device s at premises such as application s devices e.g. gaming controllers cellular phones channels modems gateways etc. This information may be useful in determining optimal latency parameters to be associated with different devices.

In some embodiments data to be sent to a terminal e.g. modem or sent from the terminal may be buffered at buffer s . For example one of buffer s may be designated for modem for example by virtue of one or more MAC addresses and or an associated channel. Buffers are commonly utilized in termination systems to prevent packet loss while waiting for bandwidth to become available on an upstream and or downstream time division multiplexed and or packet based communication path. A size for the designated buffer may affect the network latency experienced by a user associated with modem . In illustrative examples a modem termination system e.g. a CMTS typically assigns each user and each application a uniform buffer size based on the bandwidth of the connection. This buffer size may be optimized for the highest throughput typically with a large buffer size. This buffer size is conventionally not optimized for different user preferences and or application requirements. In order to accommodate real time applications in accordance with the present embodiments the interface includes an ability to dynamically adjust the buffer size to an appropriate size optimized to the application desiring to send and receive data. For example where the application on for example a user device at premises is a real time computer game having a centralized server located at a certain geographic distance from the terminal desiring to use the server the application and or user may request an appropriate buffer size to optimize performance for that application and or the particular geographic distance in conjunction with the desired application.

In one embodiment a service provider may provide a user with an application that allows the user to manually control characteristics of the user s own network connection. This application may for example be installed on modem gateway and or any of the user devices such as personal computer and or a gaming controller . For example a user may be presented with mode change buttons on display device allowing the user to select modes available from controller such as 1 Gaming mode e.g. a low latency low bandwidth mode 2 VoIP mode e.g. a low latency low bandwidth mode that may be used with a program such as Google Voice 3 video conference Skype mode e.g. a low latency medium bandwidth mode and or 4 a data transfer mode e.g. a high bandwidth high latency mode . These modes may be selected by the user via a computer interface such as a keyboard remote control gaming counsel tablet interface and or other suitable device. Alternatively controller may dynamically select these modes using a feedback mechanism and or its own packet inspection e.g. packet type inspection packet payload inspection etc. .

In some embodiments the communication may comprise a request to adjust the network latency experienced by the user. For example the request may be a request to switch from a current mode to one of a high average or low latency mode. In another example the request may be request to switch from a current mode indicated by a value along a latency range where the range extends from high latency to low latency to a new mode indicated by a new value along the latency range. In some embodiments the request to adjust network latency experienced by a user may comprise connection preference information.

In some embodiments the request may also include identification information for a user or a terminal associated with the user. For example the identification information may be a MAC address for a user device on premises e.g. a MAC address and or associated channel for modem gateway interface set top box etc. . In another example the identification information may comprise any suitable information to identify a terminal for a user e.g. a user device at premises .

In some embodiments the identification information may further identify one or more channels for a terminal associated with a user. For example a terminal associated with a user may comprise modem . Modem may communicate with an interface based on modulated signals e.g. radio frequency RF signals optical signals etc. sent over a network e.g. network link . Modem may have designated frequencies over which modulated signals may be sent. For example modem may have one or more designated 6 Mhz channels over which modulated signals may be sent to communicate with interface . In some embodiments the identification information may include a MAC address for modem and further include channel information that identifies one or more channels designated to modem .

In some embodiments the identification information may comprise subscription information that uniquely identifies a user e.g. a user associated with a user device at premises . For example the subscription information may comprise an account number for the user and or an associate MAC address. One or more terminals may be associated with the subscription information and or MAC address. For example database may store an association between the subscription information for a user and one or more user device s at premises .

In some embodiments the identification information may comprise subscription information and may further identify one of a plurality of terminals associated with the subscription information or one or more channels for a terminal associated with the subscription information. For example where a plurality of terminals are associated with subscription information for a user the request may include identification information that uniquely identifies one of the terminals e.g. a MAC address and or the capabilities of the terminal e.g. gaming controller . In another example where the received request comprises a request to adjust latency experienced on one or more channels of a terminal e.g. one or more channels for cable modem the identification information may include channel information that uniquely identifies the one or more channels.

The process may progress from step to step where a buffer is identified for the request. For example buffer s at computing device may store network traffic to and from one or more terminals e.g. modem user devices etc. associated with one or more users. The received request may include identification information for a terminal associated with the user that may be used to identify a buffer associated with the terminal from buffer s . In some embodiments database may store an association between identification information for a terminal and a buffer associated with the terminal. For example the identification information may comprise a MAC address for a terminal associated with a user and the MAC address may be used to identify the buffer. In another example the identification information may be any suitable information that may be used to identify a buffer associated with a terminal.

In some embodiments database may store an association between identification information for one or more channels for a terminal and a buffer associated with the one or more channels. For example the identification information may comprise a MAC address that identifies a terminal associated with a user and may further comprise channel information that identifies one or more channels of the terminal where the identification information may be used to identify the buffer associated with the one or more channels of the terminal.

Again referring to the process may progress from step to step where a buffer size is determined for the identified buffer. In some embodiments a buffer size may be based on subscription package information for the user. The subscription package may indicate a default buffer size. For example a subscription package with a 30 Mbps download bandwidth may indicate a first default buffer size and a subscription package with a 50 Mbps download bandwidth may indicate a second default buffer size. In some embodiments the first default buffer size may be smaller than the second default buffer size.

In some embodiments a default buffer size for one or more channels of a terminal may be based on a service designated to the one or more channels. For example a service e.g. streaming media online video gaming etc. may be designated to one or more channels associated with the modem . In exemplary embodiments a default buffer size for the one or more channels may be based on the service e.g. streaming media online video gaming etc. 

In some embodiments a terminal associated with the user may have a current mode of a plurality of modes. The modes may be one of high average or low latency. The determined buffer size for one of average mode or high mode may be the default buffer size. The received request may comprise a request to adjust the mode from the current mode e.g. high average or low to one of the other modes.

In another example the mode may be based on a value along a latency range that extends from low latency to high latency. For instance low latency may be defined as a first predetermined latency threshold at one end of the range and a high latency may be defined as a second predetermined latency threshold at the other end of the range. A mode may be represented by some value between these thresholds. The determined buffer size for the average value between the two thresholds may be the default buffer size. While the range is described as a latency range one or more other metrics may be used to define the range. For example the latency range may correspond to a bandwidth range and the predetermined upper and lower thresholds for the range for the latency for any given bandwidth. Additionally the latency may be adjusted based on dynamic feedback from an application. In these examples where jitter or other undesirable impact is being experienced by the application it may dynamically communicate with interface to decrease its latency. In another example the latency range may correspond to a range in buffer size and the predetermined upper and lower thresholds for the range may be buffer size thresholds.

For a request to decrease the latency experienced by a user e.g. an adjustment from high mode to average or low mode an adjustment from average mode to low mode an adjustment decreasing the value along the latency range etc. the buffer size associated with the user or terminal may be decreased. For a request to increase the latency experienced by a user e.g. an adjustment from low mode to average or high mode an adjustment from low mode to average mode an adjustment increasing the value along the latency range the buffer size associated with the user or terminal may be increased.

In some embodiments a predetermined change in buffer size e.g. increase or decrease may be associated with a one step change in mode. For example a change from average mode to low mode e.g. one step may indicate a predetermined reduction in buffer size. A two step change e.g. high mode to low mode may be associated with a second predetermined reduction in buffer size. In some embodiments a change in buffer size may be based on a delta between the current value and a requested value e.g. from the received request along a latency range. For example a value along a latency range may be the current mode and a requested value along the latency range may be the requested mode. A change in buffer size may be based on the delta between the current value and the requested value.

In some embodiments a predetermined buffer size may correspond to a received latency mode. For example each of latency modes low average and high may have a predetermined buffer size. In another example each value along a latency range may have a predetermined buffer size. The predetermined buffer size may further be based on subscription information for a user.

Again referring to the process may progress from step to step where a size for the identified buffer is adjusted based on the determined buffer size. For example a buffer size may be determined for an identified buffer based on a requested latency mode and the current buffer size for the identified buffer may be adjusted to the determined buffer size for the identified buffer. The process of may be applicable to more than one buffer associated with a particular communication path.

For example a user device a premises may monitor launched and or active applications having one or more preferred latency modes. A launched or running application may be identified as an application with a preferred latency mode. For example a launched application may be an online video game e.g. massively multiplayer video game or a real time communication application where the preferred latency mode for the application is low latency mode. In another example the launched or running application may be an application that leverages high bandwidth and the preferred latency mode for the application may be high latency mode.

When an application with a preferred latency mode is detected based on the monitoring a user of computing device may be notified and or controller may adjust a latency mode for the user. For example when an online video game is launched the user may be notified that the launched application has a preferred latency mode of low. In some embodiments a display as described at step may be launched that displays latency mode information for the user. In some embodiments the user is notified if the preferred latency mode for the application is different from the current latency mode for the user.

Again referring to at step latency mode information for a user may be determined and displayed or otherwise presented to a user or associated user device. In some embodiments step is performed after step . In other embodiments step need not be performed. The latency mode information may be displayed for example as a webpage in a web browser by a mobile application on a mobile computing device e.g. wireless device by an application on a computing device e.g. terminal interface on computing device or in any other suitable manner. The latency mode may be for a terminal associated with a user e.g. modem associated with user and or may be for one or more channels of the terminal e.g. one or more channels of modem . In some embodiments the latency mode information comprises connection preference information.

For instance illustrate sample interfaces e.g. webpages that display latency mode information for a user. The webpages may be hosted by one or more server e.g. servers and the servers may communicate with interface in order to submit requests to adjust a latency mode. The webpages may leverage a number of web technologies e.g. HTML CSS Java script AJAX J2EE .NET etc. in order to implement an embodiment.

The process of may proceed from step to step where a requested latency mode is received from a user or provided by the user. For example a requested latency mode may be received from drop down menu after a user submits the request using submit button . In another example a requested latency mode may be received from slider bar and slider after a user submits the request using submit button . These are mere examples and a requested latency may be received from a user in any other suitable manner.

The process of may proceed from step to step where identification information may be retrieved. For example the identification information may comprise a MAC address for a terminal e.g. modem associated with a user. In some embodiments the identification information may comprise subscription information that uniquely identifies a user e.g. account information . Identification information may further uniquely identify one out of a plurality of terminals associated with subscription information for a user. In some embodiments the identification information may include channel information that uniquely identifies one or more channels of a terminal associated with a user. The identification information may further include application information that uniquely identifies one or more applications running on a user device.

In some embodiments the interfaces e.g. webpages illustrated in may be a portion of a web portal where the web portal may store one or more examples of the identification information described above. For example the web portal may store one or more of subscription information for a user and one of the webpages illustrated in may be designated as a webpage where a user requests latency adjustments for the user. A request submitted from the designated webpage may accordingly include the subscription information. In some embodiments the web portal may store identification information that uniquely identifies a terminal associated with a user e.g. MAC address and a request submitted from a designated webpage may accordingly include the identification information.

In some embodiments the webpages illustrated in may be designated for a particular user and the webpages may include additional web forms e.g. drop down menus sliders text fields etc. used to identify one of a plurality of terminals associated with the user or one of a plurality of channels of a terminal associated with the user. For example a drop down menu not depicted may be prepopulated with a plurality of terminals associated with the user and the drop down menu used to identify one of the terminals for which a user is requesting a change in latency mode. In another example a drop down menu not depicted may be prepopulated with a plurality of channels for a terminal associated with the user and the drop down menu used to identify one or more of the plurality of channels for which a user is requesting a change in latency mode.

In some embodiments latency mode information may be displayed to a user by a local application e.g. mobile application etc. . The local application may store one or more examples of the identification information described above and a request submitted from the location application may accordingly include the identification information.

The process of may proceed from step to step where a request may be sent. For example terminal interface may send the request to interface e.g. at central communication system . The request may include a requested latency mode e.g. low average high a value along a latency range etc. identification information e.g. a MAC address one or more channels subscription information etc. and any other suitable information. Based on the request controller may adjust the latency experienced by a user device s user e.g. via the identification information in the request as further detailed above.

The hardware configuration is one example. Modifications may be made to add remove combine divide etc. components of the computing device into different arrangements. Additionally the same components e.g. processor ROM storage display etc. may be used to implement any of the other computing devices and components described herein. For example the various components herein may be implemented using computing devices having components such as a processor executing computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium as illustrated in . Some or all of the components described herein may be a combination of hardware and software and may co exist in a common physical platform e.g. a requesting entity can be a separate software process and program from the requesting entity both of which may be executed as software on a common computing device .

One or more aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in computer usable data and or computer executable instructions such as in one or more program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Program modules may include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular data types when executed by a processor in a computer or other data processing device. The computer executable instructions may be stored on one or more computer readable media such as a hard disk optical disk removable storage media solid state memory RAM etc. In various embodiments the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed across multiple computing devices. In addition the functionality over the various embodiments described herein may be embodied in whole or in part in firmware or hardware equivalents such as integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGA and the like. In some embodiments a first computing device e.g. a user device at premises may send a request to adjust the latency experienced by a terminal modem associated with a user to for example interface . The request may include a requested latency mode for a user device at premises and identification information that uniquely identifies the terminal e.g. a MAC address of modem and or associated channel information . The request may be received at a second computing device such as the interface e.g. a termination system such as a cable modem termination system CMTS . The second computing device e.g. controller may identify an appropriate buffer size for to the terminal associated with the user based on information provided by the terminal application and or user where the buffer stores data to be sent to the terminal or data sent from the terminal. A buffer size may be determined for the identified buffer based on the requested latency mode. A size for the identified buffer may be adjusted up or down based on the determined buffer size requested by the terminal application and or user.

In some embodiments controller may select a default and or current latency mode from a plurality of latency modes and the request may comprise a request to change the default and or current latency mode. The plurality of latency modes may have predetermined buffer sizes. Alternatively these buffer sizes may be varied and or altered based on a feedback control loop established with the application terminal and or user in coordination with controller .

For example in a video conference call one user may have a static video screen where the user is sitting still and not moving in the image or completely off camera. Another user may be walking down the street riding a bike driving a car boat and require a much higher connection speed. The buffer may be adjusted to provide the optimal performance of bandwidth and or latency based on manual feedback feedback from the application terminal codec and or a feedback from control loop and or other intelligent agent in the local modem a user device at premises and or controller acting alone and or in any combination.

In some embodiments latency management may be based on a particular MAC address and or on a particular channel identified as being associated with a particular MAC address. For example in certain embodiments the identification information may comprise MAC address information and or MAC address information in conjunction with channel information that identifies one or more channels for modem associated with a user. This information may optionally be stored in database . In still further embodiments certain channels may be reserved for certain types of applications. Thus in these embodiments the interface may be able to ascertain the types of communications and or associated latency requirements from the channel utilized by the application. Thus the buffer characteristics in the interface may be further identified based on the associated channel used by a user device at premises the user and or an application associated with a user device at premises .

In some embodiments a current latency mode for a user device at premises associated with a user may be displayed. For example an application running on a user device at premises associated with a modem may be able to query interface e.g. CMTS about a current status of a latency mode associated with the user MAC address channel and or user device at premises . In certain embodiments the interface may maintain individual buffers for each user MAC address channel and or user device at premises . In this event a user user device at premises and or application may be able to query the interface about the current latency state of the communication mode and then request a change in that mode. In this manner the individual user a user device at premises and or application may impact the buffer size allocated by the interface . This communication may be initiated through a standard application programming interface and or built into a modem communication protocol in future versions such as for example into DOCSIS. Thus changes in latency mode may be standardized for all applications connected to the interface and or utilized through standard application programming interfaces and or modem command interfaces. In one exemplary embodiment a latency adjustment API may include as parameters certain identification information e.g. a MAC address and or channel a request for current latency mode and or a request for a change in latency mode a request for an interactive feedback control system to determine an optimal latency mode for a particular application device.

In some embodiments a computing device may be monitored for an application that has a preferred latency mode and the request for a predetermined latency mode and or the display for a manual latency mode may be triggered by a detection of such an application. In alternate embodiments the modem and or interface may perform a packet inspection e.g. packet type inspection packet payload inspection etc. and automatically reconfigure its latency mode for any particular MAC address and or channel combination based on the type of traffic being sent at any particular instance in time. In these embodiments the packet inspection e.g. packet type inspection packet payload inspection etc. may occur for example in the interface and or in a modem and or home gateway.

Unlike QoS priority systems a change in buffer size associated with an individual MAC address and or channel has no impact on other users of the system and or overall complexity of the system. The change of buffer size may be implemented on the interface with no impact on other users and or the overall interface . Termination systems in accordance with embodiments include an interface that allows a user modem a user device at premises and or application to request a change in buffer size. Thus interface described herein dynamically set buffer size associated with for example a MAC address and or channel based upon requests and or feedback from an customer premises device and or analysis of traffic coming from a customer premises device.

In still further embodiments the latency mode allows for additional revenue models associated with high bandwidth services. For example certain users such as gamers may pay a premium to be able to have the highest scores in interactive on line gaming. Gamers may well pay for example a premium e.g. 5 month for the ability to have much less latency when playing their desired game. These users may be provided with a competitive advantage over other users.

In still further embodiments the low latency mode may be replicated in other network equipment beyond the interface such as throughout the internal and external routers between the customer premises equipment and or the server. For example the API request for a low latency mode e.g. gaming mode may be built into the routers operating system such as Junos IOS and or NX. In this manner the request for a low latency connection may be forwarded and replicated across the entire network path between the customer premises equipment and the server e.g. a gaming server .

In still further embodiments the latency mode may be reset to a default mode automatically after a predetermined period of time. This default mode may be user defined and or determined by the interface a user device at premises user modem and or home gateway.

Embodiments of described herein may easily be added to every modem interface e.g. CMTS router and or other network and or server device. By defining appropriate API s and requesting that vendors implement the APIs to implement latency modes in accordance with the embodiments herein these features become universally available across the entire network vastly improving the user experience.

In still further embodiments latency across a network e.g. packet switched and or MPLS network can vary with frame size. For example where smaller frames are utilized such as an 86 byte frame latency may be as small as 0.025 seconds. However as frame and throughput increases latency may also increase. For example when using a frame size of 1518 bytes latency may be 10 times as much such as 0.25 s across each router.

In still further embodiments interface may be configured to request a smaller packet size in situations where low latency has been requested. For example by using the Packet Too Big message in IPv6 the interface may cause the IPv6 protocol stack in a user device at premises to output smaller packet sizes thus resulting in lower overall latency across the entire packet network and or Internet. In these embodiments the processor in the interface may utilize both buffer size and permitted packet size to decrease latency.

Although example embodiments are described above the various features and steps may be combined divided omitted and or augmented in any desired manner depending on the specific outcome and or application. Various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in art. Such alterations modifications and improvements as are made obvious by this disclosure are intended to be part of this description though not expressly stated herein and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the foregoing description is by way of example only and not limiting. This patent is limited only as defined in the following claims and equivalents thereto.

