---

title: Predicted travel intent
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for providing a recommendation and/or a travel interface based upon a predicted travel intent. For example, a set of user signals (e.g., search queries, calendar information, social network data, etc.) may be evaluated to determine the predicted travel intent for a user to travel to a destination. A recommendation may be provided based upon the predicted travel intent. For example, images, news stories, advertisements, events, attractions, travel accommodation (e.g., hotel, car, and/or flight reservation functionality) and/or other information and functionality associated with the destination may be provided through the recommendation. The recommendation may be provided through an alert, a mobile app, a website, a travel interface, and/or a variety of other interfaces. The predicted travel intent may be used to modify information provided by a website, an operating system, and/or apps (e.g., a news app may display information about the destination).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09618343&OS=09618343&RS=09618343
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09618343
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131212
---
Many users may utilize a search interface such as a search app a search website a social network etc. to research and or plan a trip. In an example a user may search a social network for vacation images for Venice Beach. The user may submit various search queries relating to hotels air flights car rental agencies attractions and or other information for Venice Beach through a search website. The search website may provide the user with search results that the user may explore and or bookmark for later access. The user may call various travel accommodation and entertainment businesses while planning the Venice Beach trip. In this way the user may research and plan a trip through search interfaces and or devices e.g. phone calls through a mobile device map directions through a mobile map app etc. .

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for providing a recommendation based upon a predicted travel intent are provided herein. For example a set of user signals indicative of an intent for a user to travel to a destination may be identified based upon a variety of information associated with the user and or devices used by the user. For example a user signal may correspond to location information associated with a device e.g. GPS check in data obtained when the device accesses a website search query history e.g. a query for flights hotels locations attractions businesses events and or other travel and or destination information user browsing history messages associated with the user social network posts by the user e.g. the user may post about a desire to go on a vacation a calendar entry e.g. the user may have an entry about meeting with a travel agent or renting a car a phone call e.g. a phone call log entry to a hotel reservation company etc. The set of user signals may be evaluated to determine a predicted travel intent for the user to travel to a destination e.g. a classifier may be used to identify features indicative of travel such as by evaluating search terms of queries submitted by the user to identify a location that is a threshold distance away from the user . In an example a predicted travel date may be derived from the set of user signals. The predicted travel date may be used to identify events e.g. skiing in winter fishing season a baseball game during a baseball season flights hotel availability etc.

It may be appreciated that in one example a destination may correspond to multiple locations and is not limited to a single location. In an example a vacation destination may comprise a cross country trip that includes Las Vegas the Grand Canyon San Francisco and or a cruise leaving from San Francisco e.g. the set of user search signals may comprise search terms relating to long distance car rentals Las Vegas the Grand Canyon San Francisco a cruise line etc. . In another example a Europe destination may comprise a local airport an airport in Rome Rome a train ride to Germany Germany and or other locations in Europe e.g. the set of user search signals may comprise search terms relating to Rome Germany and or other European locations . In this way the predicted travel intent may correspond to a destination encompassing one or more locations. It may also be appreciated that a user may not end up travelling to the destination and or the user may travel to some e.g. one or more but not all locations associated with the destination.

One or more recommendations may be created based upon the predicted travel intent. A recommendation may comprise weather information attraction information e.g. an amusement park travel accommodation information e.g. a link to a hotel reservation app an event at the destination e.g. a baseball game during a baseball season a festival etc. a news story associated with the destination a social network photo associated with the destination a travel route and or a plethora of other content and or information associated with traveling to the destination. In an example the recommendation may be pushed to a device of the user e.g. an alert on a mobile device . In another example the recommendation may be provided as a message through a message system e.g. email text etc. . In another example the recommendation may be provided through a calendar or task interface. In another example the recommendation and or the predicted travel intent may be used to influence information provided by a website. For example a search engine website may provide one or more information interfaces e.g. a carousel of news stories provided by a homepage of a search engine website that may comprise content derived from the recommendation and or the predicted travel intent e.g. a celebrity news story may be replaced with a local news story for the destination . In another example a search engine results page SERP may be modified based upon the recommendation and or the predicted travel intent e.g. a search result suggestion may correspond to a business at the destination . In another example a travel interface e.g. displayed by a website or a mobile app such as a search app hosted on a mobile device may be provided. The travel interface may be populated with information e.g. weather attractions travel accommodations selectable interests travel dates travel route planning information social network photos of the destination and or a wide variety of other information associated with the destination.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

One or more techniques and or systems for providing a recommendation based upon a predicted travel intent are provided. For example a predicted travel intent that a user will travel to a destination may be determined. The predicted travel intent may be used to generate recommendations e.g. a recommendation to book a theatre show the weekend that the user may travel to the destination populate a travel interface e.g. a mobile app and or a website may provide travel accommodation information weather attraction information travel planning functionality and or a variety of other information and or functionality associated with traveling to the destination and or may be used to influence that selection of information that is provided by app and or websites e.g. a website may modify news interfaces with information associated with the destination .

An embodiment of providing a recommendation based upon a predicted travel intent is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a set of user signals associated with a user may be evaluated to determine a predicted travel intent for the user to travel to a destination. The set of user signals may comprise locational information associated with a device of the user e.g. GPS check in data social network check in data locational information provided to websites etc. a search query history associated with the user e.g. search queries and or visited websites corresponding to flights hotels locations attractions businesses events etc. a message a phone number called by the user a social network post content marked by the user through a social network e.g. a pinned or marked image or website a calendar entry and or any other information or user created data e.g. a folder or document indicative of a location or traveling . In an example a classifier and or a travel training dataset e.g. search queries submitted by users and or destinations traveled to by such users such that the travel training dataset may be indicative of search queries associated with users researching destinations that were actually traveled to by the users may be utilized to identify features associated with the set of user signals e.g. search terms within search queries submitted by the user that correspond to potential destinations and or relate to traveling such as flight baggage weight limit traveling with a child time zone change best hotels vacation and or other query terms . The classifier may assign an intent to travel score to a potential destination. If the intent to travel score is above a travel threshold then the potential destination may be determined as the destination to which the user has an intent to travel.

In an example the destination may correspond to multiple locations e.g. a trip to LA may involve the beach an amusement park and or other locations near or outside of LA . For example the set of user signals may be evaluated to identify a set of potential travel locations e.g. the user may search for LA vacations a particular amusement park outside of LA a what beaches are within an hour of LA and or other search queries corresponding to locations that may be associated with LA . The set of potential locations may be clustered to create one or more location clusters. In an example a location cluster comprises one or more potential travel locations of the set of potential travel locations e.g. LA a neighboring city comprising the beach and a neighboring city comprising the amusement park . The destination may be identified based upon the location cluster. For example the destination may comprise one or more potential travel locations within the location cluster. That is the destination may correspond to just some of or all of the potential travel locations within the location cluster.

In an example a set of historical user location data associated with a device of the user may be evaluated to determine a user hub at which the user is located for a threshold percentage of time e.g. home work etc. . Responsive to a potential destination e.g. identified from the set of user signals being a threshold distance from the user hub e.g. at least 50 miles away the potential destination may be determined as the destination. Responsive to the potential destination not being the threshold distance from the user hub e.g. less than 50 miles away the potential destination may not be determined as the destination. In this way the threshold distance may bet set with a value that corresponds to a threshold amount of traveling that the user will undertake for a potential destination to be considered a travel destination.

In an example a potential travel date may be determined for the predicted travel intent based upon a global approximate travel timeline e.g. users may approximately begin traveling after 10 days from identification of a predicted travel intent and or based upon an evaluation of the set of user signals e.g. the user may submit a search query beach cottage rates for May information about the weeklong summer apple festival in LA etc. . The potential travel date may be used to tailor the predicted travel intent and or recommendations provided for the predicted travel intent e.g. events occurring at a particular time such as a ski lodge being open current rates for travel accommodations such as flights or hotel and or other time sensitive information .

At a recommendation may be provided based upon the predicted travel intent. The recommendation may comprise a photo from a social network e.g. a friend of the user may have uploaded a photo of a vacation to LA an image associated with the destination a news story associated with the destination an event at the destination e.g. a summer festival an advertisement for a business associated with the destination e.g. a beach resort lodge a website link to a website e.g. a hotel reservation website an app link to a mobile app e.g. a travel app a social network link to a social network profile of an entity associated with the destination e.g. a sports team that is playing during the potential travel date an attraction at the destination and or a variety of other travel task completion information e.g. hotel reservation functionality travel planning functionality sports tickets to a sporting event at the destination during the potential travel date where the sporting event is identified as being interesting to the user based upon a social network profile of the user etc. .

The recommendation may be displayed through an alert e.g. an alert message through a mobile device an operating system user interface e.g. an operating system welcome screen an operating system search charm etc. a mobile app a website a search engine homepage e.g. a news interface may be populated with a news story for the destination a carousel interface e.g. a website interface through which the user may browse such as flip through various information associated with the destination etc. In an example the recommendation may be provided from a client device to the user e.g. a mobile search app may identify the predicted travel intent and or may provide the recommendation through the client device hosting the mobile search app . In another example the recommendation may be provided to the client device for display to the user e.g. a search engine server may identify the predicted travel intent based upon search queries submitted to a search engine website hosted by the search engine server and or may provide the recommendation to the client device such as by displaying the recommendation through the search engine website accessed by a web browser hosted by the client device .

In an example of providing the recommendation a user interface comprising a set of information interfaces may be identified e.g. a website comprising a news story carousel an operating system comprising information tiles etc. . In another example of providing the recommendation a travel interface may be populated with the recommendation e.g. a mobile app such as a travel app may display the travel interface populated with the recommendation . In an example the travel interface may be populated with a confirmable question as to whether the predicted travel intent is correct e.g. the user may be solicited to enter various information used to adjust and or elaborate on the predicted travel intent . The travel interface may be populated with a variety of information and or functionality associated with the destination and or traveling to the destination. For example the travel interface may be populated with weather information for the destination an attraction interface for the destination e.g. an attraction name an attraction description an attraction image and or an ability to book tickets for the attraction a travel accommodation interface for the destination e.g. a name image description and or reservation functionality for a hotel car rental business and or airline a selectable interest interface associated with an interest e.g. the user may select sports shopping running biking beaches skiing and or a variety of interests that may be used to tailor recommendations provided for the predicted travel intent a travel data input interface a travel route planning interface e.g. an interactive map a configuration interface e.g. the user may tailor the predicted travel intent and or information recommended to the user for the predicted travel intent and or a supplemental information interface e.g. a link to a travel planning app a link to a website a photo of the destination user reviews for restaurants at the destination and or a plethora of other supplemental content . At the method ends.

An embodiment of displaying a travel interface is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a predicted travel intent for a user to travel to a destination is identified e.g. search queries submitted by the user may be evaluated to identify features indicative of locations that may be at least a threshold distance away from a user hub such as a home or residence of the user . At a travel interface populated with one or more recommendations associated with the destination may be generated. The recommendation may comprise at least one of an image weather information attraction information event information advertisements news stories and or travel task completion information associated with the destination e.g. functionality to book a flight rent a car book a hotel purchase a train ticket purchase football game tickets purchase amusement park tickets schedule a visit to a museum etc. . At the travel interface may be provided through at least one of an operating system user interface e.g. a search charm a welcome screen a home screen etc. a mobile app e.g. a travel app a search app a reservation app etc. or a website e.g. integrated into a search engine results page or a search engine homepage . At the method ends.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data such as binary data comprising at least one of a zero or a one in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In some embodiments the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In some embodiments the processor executable instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing at least some of the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein. Also it will be understood that not all operations are necessary in some embodiments.

Further unless specified otherwise first second and or the like are not intended to imply a temporal aspect a spatial aspect an ordering etc. Rather such terms are merely used as identifiers names etc. for features elements items etc. For example a first object and a second object generally correspond to object A and object B or two different or two identical objects or the same object.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used herein or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with and or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

