---

title: Electronic device structure and method of making electronic devices and integrated circuits using grayscale technology and multilayer thin-film composites
abstract: A physical structure and a method for forming a electronic devices on a substrate comprising: providing a substrate; forming a plurality of layers on the substrate, the layers comprising at least two layers of conducting material and a layer of insulating material therebetween; depositing photoresist material onto predetermined regions of the plurality of layers, the photoresist material varying in thickness; utilizing gray scale illumination on the photoresist material; removing a portion of the layers using physical etching to expose predetermined portions of the conducting layers. Optionally, the photoresist may be utilized on a plurality of discrete electronic devices concurrently, such that the gray scale illumination is conducted on a plurality of discrete electronic devices concurrently. Similarly, the physical etching may be conducted on the discrete electronic devices concurrently; removing different thicknesses of material concurrently. Also claimed is a product made by the claimed method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09096426&OS=09096426&RS=09096426
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09096426
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130405
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

Gray scale technology for fabrication was also disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 310 623 Gal 623 Method for Fabricating Microlenses issued 10 May 1994 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference. In Gal 623 a designed configuration was formed as a replica which in turn was formed on photoresist material that was used to produce a configuration in a substrate material. The methodology disclosed in Gal 623 involved ultraviolet illumination through a single pixel binary exposure mask which was subdivided into many subpixels which in turn was divided into gray scale resolution elements. A replica image was produced by exposing photoresist material to light through a gray scale model of a selected wavelength transmitted through openings in the exposure mask for a selected duration of time. The exposed photoresist material was then processed to produce a replica in the photoresist material. As discussed in Gal 623 the process involved removing an amount of unhardened material from a particular subpixel area following light exposure which produced a replica of the design. The mask opening in each subpixel provided a grey scale resolution depending upon the number of resolution elements incorporated within the mask opening. The gradation of the gray scale resolution ranged from a very light gradation where the size of the mask opening comprises only a few resolution elements to a relatively dark gray scale gradation when the size of the mask opening included the maximum number of gray scale resolution elements for minimum exposure . The replica produced was then used for producing the design in a substrate material by differential ion milling.

Gray scale technology used in conjunction with silicon structures was disclosed in an article by Christopher M Waits et al. entitled Investigation of gray scale technology for large area 3D silicon MEMS structures J. Micromech. Microeng. 13 170 177 2003 hereby incorporated by reference. Also disclosed was a discussion of minimum usable pixel size maximum usable pitch size and the range of usable gray levels for developing 3 D large area silicon structures together with the resolution of a projection lithography system and the spot size used to write a binary optical mask.

Etched multilayer thin film composites suitable for use as electrical connectors wherein the multilayer thin film composites comprise alternating dielectric conductive i.e. dielectric metal layers. Etched multilayer thin film composites herein comprise at least two conductive layers interleaved between dielectric layers wherein a multilayer composite comprising alternating dielectric conductive layers has been etched so as to expose the individual conductive layers therein such that the conductive layers can be individually accessed and connected to and in electrical contact with one another. Etched multilayer thin film composites methods of making same using grayscale lithography and methods of using the same are claimed. Applicants are claiming inter alia the product made by the methods disclosed.

forming a plurality of layers on the substrate the layers comprising at least two layers of conducting material and a layer of insulating material there between 

depositing photoresist material onto predetermined regions of the plurality of layers the photoresist material varying in thickness 

removing a portion of the layers using physical etching to expose predetermined portions of the at least two conducting layers.

Optionally the thickness of the photoresist material may correlate inversely to the portion of the layers removed using physical etching. Ion milling may be used to perform the physical etching. The photoresist material may be used to remove material to provide access to a predetermined layer of conducting material in order to make an electrical connection with the predetermined layer of conducting material. Optionally the plurality of layers may form discrete electronic devices having varying numbers of layers. The process may be used to form the discrete electronic devices concurrently such that the gray scale illumination is conducted on a plurality of discrete electronic devices concurrently. Likewise the physical etching may be conducted on a plurality of discrete electronic devices concurrently for example varying thicknesses of material may be removed from different ones of the plurality of discrete electronic devices concurrently. Such discrete electronic devices may be formed for example from blocks of material layers with substantially flat surfaces on each side. In order to remove a portion of the layers using physical etching a triangular portion may be removed from at least one block.

Optionally the substrate may be fabricated from silicon and the insulating material may be silicon dioxide titanium dioxide aluminum oxide lead zirconate titanate silicon nitride barium titanate barium strontium titanate or mixtures thereof. Optionally the conducting layers may be any one of platinum iridium iridium oxide ruthenium ruthenium oxide gold silver aluminum nickel copper and or mixtures thereof. Conductors may be added to the exposed layers of conducting material which may later be connected in an electrical circuit. The layers may comprise piezoelectric material.

Optionally the gray scale illumination technique may comprise using pixilated chrome patterns on at least one mask to control the amount of light transmitted the pixilated mask being projected on the photoresist using a stepper lithography system. Alternately the gray scale illumination technique may comprise using one of e beam or laser beam rastering across an appropriately sensitive layer of photoresist material whereby the variable thickness of the photoresist can be controlled via the intensity or time of exposure with the beam on the resist and wherein the pattern is translated into beam motion via a controller.

A more complete appreciation of the invention will be readily obtained by reference to the following Description of the Preferred Embodiments and the accompanying drawings. The representations in each of the figures are diagrammatic and no attempt is made to indicate actual scales or precise ratios. Proportional relationships are shown as approximates.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second photons in a photon pair these terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to scope of the present illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

By way of introduction single layer thin film lead zirconate titanate PZT microelectromechanical systems MEMS have proven to improve the performance of a wide range of MEMS sensors and actuators for robotics RF devices and power conversion see for example Smith G. L. et al. PZT Based Piezoelectric MEMS Technology Journal of the American Ceramic Society 2012 here by incorporated by reference. Successful microfabrication of multilayer PZT and Pt has led to a requirement to electrically address individual metal layers or connect alternating layers to make bi directional actuators sensors and capacitors. The present invention addresses this requirement and describes a method of employing grayscale lithography for 3 D etching of multilayer thin film composites.

In particular the present invention relates to multilayer stacks of alternating dielectric and metal materials wherein the multilayer stacks also referred to herein as multilayer thin film composites are etched using a single mask and ion mill step so as to provide access to individual layers of metal and dielectric materials therein. This may be accomplished using grayscale lithography to ion mill multi level steps or low aspect ratio ramps into a multilayer stack of alternating dielectric metal materials. Once etched the wafer can optionally be wet etched with a chemically preferential etchant that will clear the dielectric material from the metal regions. This exposes the individual metal layers for subsequent connection with standard for example Au trace routing to apply voltage to these layers. The etched multilayer stacks of the present invention are also referred to herein as etched multilayer thin film composites. 

A preferred embodiment grayscale transfer process uses a High Energy Beam Sensitive HEBS glass grayscale test mask Canyon Material Inc. San Diego Calif. http www.canyonmaterials.com prop hebs1.html in conjunction with both bare silicon wafers and silicon wafers with a four layer stack of PZT and Pt on oxide and Si and silicon dioxide. In both cases the SEM micrographs show clear evidence of pattern transfer of the discrete grayscale steps into the multilayer material. Using the technology of the present invention a.25 um resolution is provided using the HEBS glass.

The PZT Pt stacks may comprise for example a thickness of 4 PZT layers of 0.25 m thick PZT with 0.1 m thick Pt. The composite layered stacks range on the order of 0.1 20 m total thickness.

The etched multilayer thin film composites of the present invention may be used in devices to provide lower operational voltages higher capacitances and bi directionality. In addition use of grayscale lithography and ion milling to etch the multilayer thin film composites herein provides a cost effective and efficient process of making the same. Since ion milling is a physical process it extends to all metal dielectric capacitive stacks.

Unpatterned unetched multilayer composite stacks suitable for use in the present invention comprise alternating dielectric and conductive layers deposited or grown on substrate. They can be deposited or grown on substrates like silicon wafers using conventional well known microfabrication techniques such as for example purposes only thermal oxidation sputtering sol gel deposition evaporation electroplating and atomic layer deposition technologies. These techniques are well known to those skilled in the microsystem fabrication art and commercial systems are available to perform all of these. Suitable conductive layers that may be employed include for example gold copper aluminum iridium iridium oxide ruthenium ruthenium oxide and platinum. Suitable dielectric materials that may be employed include for example purposes only silicon dioxide titanium dioxide and aluminum oxide. Thin film ferroelectric materials that may be employed herein include Lead Zirconate Titanate PZT barium titanate or barium strontium titanate. In addition piezoelectric materials can be employed such as aluminum nitride zinc oxide or PZT

The present invention provides inter alia a practical method of accessing and connecting metal layers for the fabrication of multilayer composite devices like metal dielectric thin films. A preferred process within the scope of the present invention only requires two masks regardless of the number of layers. This is unique and improves upon previous methods that require one mask per layer that become time consuming and thus impractical as the layers in the device increase. Furthermore alignment tolerances are additive with each layer potentially decrease device yield and forcing the design to be larger to compensate for the misalignment. The preferred process can be used to increase by 1 2 orders of magnitude the electrode area in the same device die footprint. This will improve capacitance and thus performance of on chip thin film capacitors and piezoelectric thin film actuators and sensors and PZT Si voltage transformers.

Illustrated in are top and cross sectional views of a preferred embodiment structure comprising a photoresist ramp on a multilayer stack PZT Pt or other metal oxide stack . Structure is used herein in the broad sense to relate to a variety of configurations formed on a wafer integrated circuit chip or substrate such as silicon that may be used to create an electronic device such as for example a transformer or the like. Structure may be termed a pad with which a device may be formed. As used herein and in the accompanying drawings structure is used in the generic sense in that various modifications of the structure are shown all of which are represented generically by the reference number . The example of structure shown in comprises a top portion and ramp portion . Also shown in are layers and which may be formed for example of alternating layers of platinum and PZT . However the present invention is not limited to utilizing stacks of PZT and platinum. Unpatterned unetched multilayer composite stacks suitable for use in the present invention comprise alternating dielectric and conductive layers deposited or grown on substrate. The layers may be deposited or grown on substrates like silicon wafers using conventional well known microfabrication techniques such as for example thermal oxidation sputtering sol gel deposition evaporation electroplating and atomic layer deposition technologies. Such techniques are well known to those skilled in the microsystem fabrication art and commercial systems are available to perform all of such depositions. Suitable conductive layers that may be employed include for example gold copper aluminum iridium iridium oxide ruthenium ruthenium oxide and platinum. Suitable dielectric materials that may be employed include for example purposes only silicon dioxide titanium dioxide and aluminum oxide. Thin film ferroelectric materials that may be employed herein include Lead Zirconate Titanate PZT barium titanate or barium strontium titanate. In addition piezoelectric materials can be employed such as aluminum nitride zinc oxide or PZT

A preferred process comprises making a ramped B or stepped B pattern in photoresist on a multilayer metal dielectric composite stack. Next the ramp or stepped profile is etched using a physical plasma based etch with close selectivity of the photoresist and material being etched. This process allows access to predetermined metal and or dielectric layers. Techniques to achieve a ramped or stepped pattern in photoresist include gray scale photolithography using sub resolution binary optical masks High Energy Beam Sensitive Glass HEBS laser or e beam direct write of photoresist or the like. Techniques to transfer the ramped or stepped pattern into the multilayer stack include ion mill optimal for 1 1 transfer physical ion etch Ar ion bombardment or reactive ion etch. The materials forming the layers comprise but are not limited to Pt Al Au Cu SiO Lead Zirconate Titanate and Pt. Techniques to deposit the materials and or metals include but are not limited to deposition in an atomic layer deposition tool sputtering evaporation and plating. PZT Pt stacks have been demonstrated to a typical pattern thickness of 4 PZT layers of 0.25 m PZT with 0.1 m thick Pt. Though etching via ion mill could be performed with multimaterial composite layered stacks ranging on the order of 0.1 20 m total.

Shown in B is an alternate structure A after the gray scale photoresist pattern is deposited. Specifically the structure A comprises a stepped portion and a plateau portion positioned above a stack of alternating layers and . The stack illustrated in is a PZT platinum stack but other metal oxide stacks may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention.

Using a grayscale pattern etched into the underlying layers a ramped profile is exposed. Referring now to following removal of the photoresist material present in B A and B the structure after ion milling comprises a plateau portion and ramped portion shown to the left . The ion milling is utilized to shape the structure by firing ions typically argon at the surface from an angle and sputtering material from the surface of the structure . It is noted that the process utilized in the article by Christopher M Waits et al. entitled Investigation of gray scale technology for large area 3D silicon MEMS structures J. Micromech. Microeng. 13 170 177 2003 used gray scale to shape photoresist and then transfer the shape into silicon via a Deep Reactive Ion Etch DRIE tool. This is a single material in a silicon etching tool. A preferred methodology incorporating the concepts of the present invention utilizes a similar gray scale process with multilevel features. One difference vis a vis multilayer stacks of materials i.e. metals and dielectrics regarding an Ion Mill etching tool is that a physical etch is utilized as opposed to a chemical physical etch like DRIE. Ion milling also results in a more predictable closer to 1 1 etch ratio between the multilayer material stack and the photo resist thus the gray scale optical mask must be designed accordingly. The multilayer materials can be used to make useful electrical components like smaller footprint thin film capacitors and lower voltage PZT actuators and higher step ups in PZT transformers.

Referring again to note that the topography of the photoresist portion is essentially transferred into the stacked layer portion i.e. configuration of layers following ion milling. In the case illustrated in only the ramped configuration is shown however one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that the stepped configuration could be utilized in which case the left most portion of would appear as a stepped configuration instead of the ramp configuration illustrated. By utilizing this photoresist technique a significant cost and time savings is achieved due to the somewhat universality of the photoresist transfer process.

One goal of gray scale lithography is to pattern the photoresist such that the patterned photoresist layer is comprised of areas containing variable thickness profiles. There are several knows techniques in the prior art to achieve this. One preferred method is High energy beam sensitive HEBS glass that uses the beam induced reduction of silver ions in a silver alkali halide material to produce the darkening of glass with silver atoms. The darkened silver atoms modulate the opacity of the photomask. 0.25 m feature resolution is possible on the HEBS glass. A second method used in the MEMS community is a process to pixilate binary patterns on masks to control the amount of light transmitted. This pixilated mask is projected onto photoresist using a projection lithography system. A third method that can achieve gray scale lithography involves the use of a scanning direct write systems with either e beam or laser beam rastering across an appropriately sensitive layer of photoresist. The variable thickness of the photoresist can be controlled via the intensity or time of exposure with the beam on the resist. The pattern is translated into beam motion via a controller. Heidelberg is an example of a commercial company that produces laser direct write systems with gray scale lithography capability. In accordance with the principles of the present invention layer thickness of the photoresist may be controlled to within 100 nm step height with the laser direct write Heidelberg system.

The present invention incorporates an extension of the gray scale process and a technique to fabricate specific type of devices with gray scale on multilayer composites. The concepts of the present invention may be utilized with two gray scale techniques. HEBS glass masks with gray features and direct write with laser exposed photoresist.

It can be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a grayscale pattern can be etched in to the underlying layers to expose the ramped profile as seen in the top portion of and this process effectively lengthens exposed sections of metal for connection in an electrical circuit. Referring now to shown is a multilayer stack with interdigitated electrode pattern. This allows for alternating layers to be connected which is a common need in many capacitive devices. Specifically the interdigitated electrode pattern is formed by transverse portions and and interconnecting portions and of a metallic layer such as for example gold. Specifically following the creation of the ramp and exposure of the layers the interconnecting portions are formed on alternating layers as shown in the lower portion of . Although gold is used in conjunction with the transverse and inter connecting portions through one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that a variety of metallic materials may be utilized including silver nickel copper platinum or the like.

As illustrated in a selective oxide or PZT etch may be utilized to expose a larger area of the preferred contact than that of for example . For instance for a Pt PZT multilayer stack with a ramp etch as illustrated in could be exposed to an HF solution that would remove the exposed PZT and uncover more of the Pt top surface. This would open the tolerance for the next Au layers to contact the Pt. This concept would work for many other multimaterial stacks.

Although the preferred methodology has been described in relation to structures and A numerous such structures A may be situated on a wafer as shown in . is an illustration of a preferred embodiment etched silicon wafer comprising a plurality of structures forming multilayer thin film composite stacks. It can be appreciated by those skilled in the art that an electronic circuit or chip comprising numerous electronic devices may be formed concurrently using individual stacks to form different electronic devices such as for example a transformer. By etching through the stack in the manner described above electrical contact may be made with a preselected layer. Illustrated in are PZT Pt stacks shown as the lightest rectangles oxide layers second lightest areas and several mask areas on the wafer showing ramps and pads of varied heights. Various heights may be used to construct transformers of varying output power. A transformer with more layers translates into increased power output. Multiple photo thicknesses yield various etch depths into the layers of the platinum PZT stacks. PZT wet etches used to finish the PZT etch operate to expose the electrode or layer of platinum.

The present invention provides a practical method of accessing and connecting metal layers for the fabrication of multilayer composite devices like conductive dielectric thin films. A preferred method entails a novel application of grayscale lithography. The process only requires two masks regardless of the number of layers. This is unique and improves upon previous methods that require one mask per layer that become time consuming and thus impractical as the layers in the device increase. The process can be used to increase by 1 2 orders of magnitude the electrode area in the same device die footprint. This will improve capacitance and thus performance of on chip thin film capacitors and piezoelectric thin film actuators and sensors. The preferred process can also be tailored to access buried electrodes in arbitrary depths in wideband width solar cell composites stack. The ion milling process is relatively insensitive to materials chosen and is thus applicable to a wide range of material combinations. In addition to improving device performance the invention has the potential to increase the practicality of making multi layer devices and provide increase cost effectiveness for previous concepts that could not have been made manufacturable.

The method of making an electrical multilayered structure within the scope of the present invention etched multilayer thin film composite suitable for use as electrical connectors reduces the time cost and footprint required to access multiple buried electrodes. It further provides for the use of fewer masks for fabricating PZT Si voltage transformers. The process may be used to simplify the fabrication of and improve the capacitance of devices that incorporate multi layer thin films i.e. multilayer thin film capacitors and piezo electric actuators and sensors. It allows multiple layers to be exposed in a single photoresist and single gray scale mask.

The concepts of the present invention and preferred embodiments disclosed herein within the scope of the present invention may be used to 1 increase capacitance on thin film capacitors enabling more compact designs 2 increase capacitance and thus actuator performance for a given voltage in piezoelectric devices and 3 apply individual voltages to any layer in multilayer piezoelectric devices improving control of motion which could create bipolar actuators in MEMS. Uses of the invention are not intended to be limited to those identified as one having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the electrical connectors herein may be used for other purposes as well.

Key advantages of the present invention include 1 simplified and more practical fabrication process process only requires one mask and one ion mill step and one mask and metal deposition pattern to make contact regardless of the number of layers 2 improved exposure of electrode area by 1 2 orders of magnitude in the same device die footprint. This also improves the work and force density in actuators and the capacitance unit area in capacitors by 1 2 orders of magnitude 3 improved voltage performance. This results in increased performance at the same voltage or lowering the voltage for the same respective performance applications i.e. on chip thin film capacitors and piezoelectric thin film actuators and sensors 4 improved alignment tolerances as the invention helps to alleviate tolerance issues that are additive with each layer using traditional grayscale lithography techniques i.e. each mask needs to be properly aligned with the previous mask in order to achieve the desired 3 D etching result or reveal with prior art technique. 

As used herein the terminology gray scale grayscale or grayscale relates to a technique involving the projection or transfer of intensity information comprising shades of gray varying in the range between black and white which may or may not include black and or white. The concepts of the present invention may be utilized with two gray scale techniques i.e. HEBS glass masks with gray features and direct write with laser exposed photoresist specializes in the fabrication of true gray level masks . High Energy Beam Sensitive HEBS glass relates to gray level gray scale mask using a standard e beam pattern generator. HEBS glass turns dark instantaneously upon exposure to an electron beam the more electron dosage current dwell time the darker the glass gets. According to the Canyon Materials Inc website http www.canyonmaterials.com hebsglass.html HEBS glass is capable of resolution to molecular dimensions and an electron beam can be focused to a 0.1 m spot size within a 5 5 plate of HEBS glass whereupon a transmittance value required by a mask user results in a capability of more than 500 gray levels with the minimum width of a gray level being 0.1 m.

As used herein the terminology photoresist means a light sensitive material used to form a patterned coating on a surface and or in material s including a stack of materials . Photoresists include positive resists in which the portion of the photoresist that is exposed to light becomes soluble to the photoresist developer and the unexposed portion remains insoluble to the photoresist developer and a negative resist in which the portion exposed to light becomes insoluble to the photoresist developer and the unexposed portion of the photoresist is dissolved by the photoresist developer.

As used herein the terminology concurrently means at or about the same time. The terminology concurrently includes but is not limited to overlapping in duration.

As used herein the terminology physical etching means process of etching through physical interactions momentum transfer between accelerated chemically inert ions e.g. argon and the material to be etched.

Obviously many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention many be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

