---

title: Method and system for learning call analysis
abstract: A system and method are presented for learning call analysis. Audio fingerprinting may be employed to identify audio recordings that answer communications. In one embodiment, the system may generate a fingerprint of a candidate audio stream and compare it against known fingerprints within a database. The system may also search for a speech-like signal to determine if the end point contains a known audio recording. If a known audio recording is not encountered, a fingerprint may be computed for the contact and the communication routed to a human for handling. An indication may be made as to if the call is indeed an audio recording. The associated information may be saved and used for future identification purposes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542856&OS=09542856&RS=09542856
owner: INTERACTIVE INTELLIGENCE GROUP, INC.
number: 09542856
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130830
---
The present invention generally relates to telecommunication systems and methods. More particularly the present invention pertains to the detection of recorded audio by automated dialer systems in contact centers.

A system and method are presented for learning call analysis. Audio fingerprinting may be employed to identify audio recordings that answer communications. In one embodiment the system may generate a fingerprint of a candidate audio stream and compare it against known fingerprints within a database. The system may also search for a speech like signal to determine if the end point contains a known audio recording. If a known audio recording is not encountered a fingerprint may be computed for the contact and the communication routed to a human for handling. An indication may be made as to if the call is indeed an audio recording. The associated information may be saved and used for future identification purposes.

In an embodiment a system for learning call analysis is presented comprising a telephony service module a database storing a record associated with each of a plurality of contacts each contact of the plurality of contacts being associated with a telephone number the database further storing a plurality of acoustic fingerprints each acoustic fingerprint of the plurality of acoustic fingerprints being associated with at least one contact of the plurality of contacts a media server the media server configured to receive one or more acoustic fingerprints of the plurality of acoustic fingerprints associated with one of the plurality of contacts one or more workstations an automated dialer the automated dialer being configured to dial the telephone number associated with the record and establish a communication with the one contact a network operatively coupled to the telephony service module the database the media server the one or more workstations and the automated dialer for exchange of data there between wherein the media server is further configured to detect whether any of the one or more acoustic fingerprints of the plurality of acoustic fingerprints is present in audio of the communication and wherein the media server is further configured to handle the communication in a first manner in the event none of the one or more acoustic fingerprints of the plurality of acoustic fingerprints are present in the audio and handle the communication in a second manner in the event that at least one of the one or more acoustic fingerprints of the plurality of acoustic fingerprints is present in the audio.

In another embodiment a method for call learning in a communication system is presented comprising the steps of selecting a contact from a database the contact being associated with a telephone number and one or more acoustic fingerprints retrieving from the database the one or more acoustic fingerprints and the telephone number associated with the contact initiating a communication with the contact based on the telephone number the communication generating audio analyzing the audio for matches to any of the one or more of the acoustic fingerprints and routing the communication based on the analyzing step wherein the communication is handled in a first manner in the event that none of the one or more acoustic fingerprints are present in the audio and the communication is handled in a second manner in the event that at least one of the one or more fingerprints is present in the audio.

In another embodiment a method for call learning in a communication system is presented comprising the steps of selecting one or more contacts from a database performing a lookup for existing acoustic fingerprints associated with each of the one or more contacts in the database initiating a communication with one of the one or more contacts determining whether any of the existing acoustic fingerprints associated with the contact is present in audio from the communication in the event that none of the existing acoustic fingerprints are present in the audio computing a new acoustic fingerprint and associating the new acoustic fingerprint with the contact in the database.

In yet another embodiment a method for routing communications in a communication system is presented comprising the steps of initiating a communication with a contact and determining whether said contact is associated with a known target wherein if said contact is not associated with a known target routing said communication to a human and performing an action and if said contact is associated with a known target analyzing audio of said communication for any of a plurality of known acoustic fingerprints associated with the known target and performing an other action.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference will now be made to the embodiment illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications in the described embodiments and any further applications of the principles of the invention as described herein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates.

In an embodiment of a contact center scenario outbound communications such as phone calls may be made automatically by a class of devices known as automated dialers or autodialers . In another embodiment of a contact center scenario outbound communications may also be placed manually. A number of humans or agents may be available to join into communications that are determined to reach a live person. When a call is initiated a determination may be made as to whether the call was answered by a live speaker. A contact center may become more efficient by not having agents involved in a communication until it is determined that there is a live person at the called end with whom the agent may speak.

Answering machine detection AMD is critical to contact centers utilizing automated dialer systems because most calls placed often result in pre recorded audio from a machine or other automated system. Every audio recording or other automated system that is incorrectly detected as a live speaker may be routed to an agent for handling. As a result agents may begin to assume an audio recording is at the other end of the call and mistakenly hang up on a live person sound surprised lose their train of thought etc. AMD employs various signal processing algorithms to classify the entity that picks up a communication into categories for example such as answering machines or recorded audio and live speakers. The accuracy of these algorithms may depend on various parameters and requires trading off AMD rate and live speaker detection LSD rate. For example biasing an autodialer towards a high AMD rate may result in more live speakers being classified incorrectly as recorded audio and hung up on by the autodialer and vice versa.

Some countries as well as applications such as high value dialing for example do not allow or utilize AMD because of false positives. An example of a false positive may include a live speaker who is classified as an answering machine. As a result AMD may be disabled or tuned heavily toward LSD. A large number of audio recordings may thus be routed to agents.

In another example an autodialer operation may contact the same phone number multiple times in a day to try and reach a live speaker. If the called number connects to an audio recording that call analysis cannot correctly detect. For example the audio recording Hi We aren t available right now . . . may result in the system not detecting that a human is not speaking. As a result each time that number is dialed it may be mistakenly routed to an agent. By learning the fingerprint of a specific audio recording the autodialer may prevent an audio recording from being repeatedly routed to an agent. If an audio recording associated with a contact is altered however the system may have to relearn the fingerprint of the audio recording the next time that number is dialed. This information may be added to the record of the contact and stored for future use.

A fingerprint in the field of Acoustic Fingerprinting may be a passive unique trait to identify a particular thing. A system may generate a fingerprint of a candidate audio stream and compare the newly generated fingerprint against a database of known fingerprints. The fingerprints may be used in communications systems for routing purposes. Humans may want to increase the opportunity to interact with another human instead of with an audio recording. Thus contacts having fingerprints identifying audio recordings may not be handled by a human and routed otherwise for example.

By learning about audio recordings that are missed learning call analysis in one embodiment allows contact centers using automated dialers to turn down their AMD bias and turn up their LSD bias. As a result contact centers may be able to maximize the number of live speakers that are routed to agents. The contact center may become aware that the increased number of audio recordings that initially come through to agents. The audio recordings may be marked as a recording and may subsequently not be re routed to agents when they are recognized.

The telephony services module may include a media server . In one embodiment the telephony services module may comprise an application programming interface API that receives audio recording fingerprints through the automated dialer and sends the fingerprints to the media server when placing a call. The media server may receive answering audio recording fingerprints and use them as part of the call analysis. The media server may also be able to generate fingerprints and send these to the telephony services module when requested.

In one embodiment the automated dialer may comprise a device that automatically dials telephone numbers. In another embodiment the automated dialer may comprise software. An example may be Interactive Intelligence Inc. s Interaction Dialer . In one embodiment the automated dialer may have a lookup or caching mechanism that matches phone numbers or other contact information to existing audio recording fingerprints for communications about to be placed. In one embodiment when a call is sent to an agent and identified as an audio recording the automated dialer may request the fingerprints for that call from the telephony services and media server and update database tables.

The network may be in the form of a VoIP a network internet based voice communication PTSN mobile phone network Local Area Network LAN Municipal Area Network MAN Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a combination of these or such other network arrangement as would occur to those skilled in the art. The operating logic of system may be embodied in signals transmitted over network in programming instructions dedicated hardware or a combination of these. It should be understood that any number of computers can be coupled together by network .

The agent workstation may include a work station computer coupled to a display . Workstation computers may be of the same type or a heterogeneous combination of different computing devices. Likewise displays may be of the same type or a heterogeneous combination of different visual devices. It should be understood that while one work station is described in the illustrative embodiment more may be utilized. Contact center applications of system typically include many more workstations of this type at one or more physical locations but only one is illustrated in to preserve clarity. In another embodiment agents may not even be utilized such as in a system that regularly leaves messages but provides an IVR with a message and options if a live speaker is encountered. Further it should be understood that while a contact center is mentioned and agents are referred to it is within the scope of this material not to limit application to a contact center setting.

A digital telephone may be associated with agent workstation . Additionally a digital telephone may be integrated into the agent computer and or implemented in software. It should be understood that a digital telephone which is capable of being directly connected to network may be in the form of handset headset or other arrangement as would occur to those skilled in the art. It shall be further understood that the connection from the network to an agent workstation can be made first to the associated workstation telephone then from the workstation telephone to the workstation computer by way of a pass through connection on the workstation telephone. Alternatively two connections from the network can be made one to the workstation telephone and one to the workstation computer. Although not shown to preserve clarity an agent workstation may also include one or more operator input devices such as a keyboard mouse track ball light pen tablet mobile phone and or microtelecommunicator to name just a few representative examples. Additionally besides display one or more other output devices may be included such as loudspeaker s and or a printer.

The database may house the automated dialer records. The records contained in the database may enable the system to determine whether a fingerprint is present The records may also enable the system to determine whether an audio recording is present at the other end of a communication.

In one embodiment the call endpoint may represent the endpoint of a call placed by the system through the network and there is an answer. The answer may be by any entity such as a live speaker or an audio recording for example.

As illustrated in a process for illustrating call learning is provided. The process may be operative in any or all of the components of the system .

In step a contact is selected for communication. For example telephone numbers and matches are cached. In one embodiment when telephone numbers that are to be dialed are cached the automated dialer may also cache any fingerprint matches that are found within the system. In one embodiment multiple fingerprints per contact may be stored. Instances of multiple fingerprints may occur when audio recordings play different announcements based on the time of day or the day of the week for example. Control is passed to operation and the process continues.

In operation a fingerprint look up is performed for the selected contacts. For example there may be a fingerprint for any given telephone number of a contact such as the fingerprint of the audio recording that an agent experienced when a call was placed to that number. In some instances a telephone number may result in more than one audio recording such as with call forwarding. In at least one embodiment fingerprints may be found using the telephone number as a reference or via other forms of identification such as a name customer ID etc. Control is passed to operation and the process continues.

In operation a call is placed. For example the call may be performed via the telephony services. In one embodiment the automated dialer may supply the fingerprint in the API call when the call is initiated. The telephony services may then relay any fingerprints associated with the telephone number to the media server that were identified in the fingerprint lookup. In at least one embodiment fingerprints may include those of voice mail systems answering machines network messages etc. or any other type of answering service or audio recording. Control is passed to operation and the process continues.

In operation the media server listens for speech or a fingerprint match. In one embodiment the fingerprints may indicate that the system has encountered the same audio recording previously. The fingerprint may also indicate that the message has changed in the recording. Control is passed to step and process continues.

In operation it is determined whether there is a fingerprint match. If it is determined that there is a fingerprint match then control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that there is not a fingerprint match then control is passed to operation and process continues.

The determination in operation may be made based on any suitable criteria. For example when the media server encounters a recording that has a familiar fingerprint i.e. it has been learned then the media server may inform telephony services which in turn may inform the automated dialer that there is a match. If a match for the fingerprint is found this may indicate an audio recording. However if there is no match then the fingerprint could indicate a live person or a changed recording and this will have to be determined by other means such as the agent. In one embodiment the agent may indicate in the record the entity at the other end of the call.

In operation a record may be inserted for that telephone number. For example a record may be inserted into indicating that the type is d indicating that an audio recording has been detected and the process ends. In one embodiment other actions may be performed such as disconnecting the communication scheduling another communication to occur at a later point in time leaving a message on an answering machine determining an alternate contact to try and routing the communication to a handler.

In operation a fingerprint is computed for the telephone number. For example a unique identifier may be created for the contact. Control is passed to step and process continues.

In operation the communication is routed. For example a call may be routed to an agent within a contact center. Control is passed to step and process continues.

In operation it is determined whether the end point of the contact has been associated with an audio recording. If it is determined that the end point of the communication is an audio recording then control is passed to operation and process continues. If it is determined that the end point of the call is not an audio recording then control is passed to operation and process continues.

The determination in operation may be made based on any suitable criteria. For example records within the database may be examined. In one embodiment if a live speaker call is dispositioned by an agent with a wrap up code indicating that an audio recording has been routed to the agent then the autodialer requests the audio recording fingerprint from telephony services media server and writes it to the database. The autodialer may then take the telephone number and the corresponding fingerprint and look it up as described in below. If the combination of the contact number and fingerprint is found then the information illustrated in below may be supplemented. In one embodiment the indicator Fingerprint missed may be input in the record because call analysis should have detected this call as an audio recording but failed to. If the combination is not found then the autodialer looks up the contact number. If that record is found then the autodialer may overwrite the fingerprint for that contact record. Alternatively multiple fingerprints may be kept according to rules such as the maximum age maximum number etc. The autodialer may also insert a type into a record indicating that the fingerprint has changed even though the record has been found. For example in one embodiment an audio recording may have changed such as a person changing the message on their answering machine. In another embodiment the fingerprint of the communication may be added to the database even if a live caller is detected. Storing such information may serve to ensure the agents are not skewing their statistics by pretending to talk to a person and letting an answering machine record the conversation.

In operation a record is inserted associating a contact with a fingerprint and the process ends. In at least one embodiment multiple fingerprints may be associated with a number. Multiple fingerprints may result in instances where for example different audio recording may be played based on the time of day or the day of the week.

In operation a record is inserted. For example if a phone number is not found the autodialer may insert a new record into the existing record of which an embodiment is illustrated in which includes the ID of the agent that dispositioned the call as an audio recording. The record illustrated in may also contain information inserted indicating that the communication was a type of initial detect which may indicate that an audio recording is being encountered for the first time and a fingerprint is being added. Control is passed to operation and the process continues.

The ID field may contain a record ID which is necessarily unique and preferably used consistently. In at least one embodiment this field may be a primary key. Using the example shown in record has an ID of 1.

The Contact Identifier field may contain the telephone number of the contact. This number may have a specified format such as all digits. Using the example shown in Record contains a value of 3175555555 for the telephone number field .

The Fingerprint field may contain the fingerprint converted into some form convenient for storage in the database record as would occur to those skilled in the art. It may be fixed or of a variable length or format or comprise a reference to external storage for example. Although particular examples of fingerprints are presented herein any sort of unique identifier may be used without departing from the scope of the embodiments herein. Using the example shown in record contains a fingerprint field value of RmluZ2VycHJpbnQx .

The Identified By field may contain information relating to the means by which the communication was addressed. For example the field may contain information about how the call was answered. In one embodiment this information in the record could include the user ID of the agent that identified this fingerprint as an audio recording or it may indicate that the system identified the fingerprint as an audio recording. Using the example shown in record contains an identified by field value of system which may indicate that the communication was identified by the system as an audio recording.

The ID field may contain a record ID which is necessarily unique and preferably used consistently. A record ID may indicate an identifier that is used relevant to each contact account. Although particular examples of IDs are presented herein any sort of unique identifier may be used without department from the scope of the embodiments herein. In at least one embodiment this field may be a primary key. Using the example shown in record has an ID of 1.

The Insert Date Field may contain the date of the record. In at least one embodiment this information may have a specified format such as Aug. 21 2012. Using the example shown in record contains a value of Aug. 21 2012 for the insert date field .

The type filed may contain information about the call from the system. In at least one embodiment the call may be expressed in values. For example i for an initial detect d for detect c for detect fingerprint changed or m for fingerprint missed . An initial detect may describe an audio recording that is being encountered for the first time. Detect may describe that an audio recording has been detected and the associated fingerprint. Detect fingerprint changed may indicate that an audio recording has been detected but the fingerprint has changed. An example may include a newly recorded message on an answering machine. Fingerprint missed may indicate a combination of a phone number and a fingerprint matching an existing entry in the table yet the media server did not detect the recording as such. Although particular examples are presented herein any sort of unique identifier may be used without departing from the scope of the embodiments herein. Using the example shown in record contains a value of c which may indicate that an audio recording has been detected but the fingerprint has changed.

Periodically a contact center may run a script on the record tables in in the database to remove old contacts that have not been called in a specified period of time e.g. 2 years . Reports may also be generated that can identify such information as to how many audio recordings were not routed to an agent on a given day. Administrators may also periodically run reports on agents with high numbers of associated fingerprints to see if they are mis characterizing live speakers as audio recordings or vice versa.

In at least one embodiment to avoid routing answering machines or recorded audio incorrectly classified as a live caller for contacts where the system does not yet have a fingerprint record of the audio recording stored in its database the algorithmic classification into live caller and audio recording would not be used. Instead a call to the new telephone number would be placed. The call analysis system may search for a speech like signal and for fingerprint matches. If there is no matching fingerprint a fingerprint may be created of the signal and the call disconnected. A message may optionally be played before disconnecting or some other means of handling the call may be employed. The number may be called again at some point in time and if the fingerprint matches then it can be determined whether the end point is an audio recording. If the fingerprint does not match then the end point may be a live caller or an audio recording. If the contact attempt results in a live caller the fingerprint may not be stored in the database. Any subsequent contact attempt to that number would want to utilize the same algorithm again i.e. call first take the fingerprint and call back as it may be that only confirmed audio recordings such as where there was a positive fingerprint match in the subsequent call for example would be stored in the database. For numbers where the system does not yet have a fingerprint of the audio recording the system may employ statistical or heuristic models to determine the time to place the call where the likelihood of reaching a machine is highest such as when the likelihood of reaching a live caller is lowest. This is in contrast to contacts where fingerprints are present and the system would place communications to maximize the likelihood of reaching a live caller.

In one embodiment if a fingerprint match is made between a communication endpoint and an existing record in the database one or more alternate contacts may be used for that record in an attempt to reach a desired endpoint such as a human. For example the Find Me Follow Me feature could be employed where several telephone numbers are on record for the same contact. When attempting to locate the contact the system places calls to these numbers in some order until it reaches the human. After having learned the fingerprints the first time a particular recording is encountered the system may subsequently be able to identify numbers where an automated system such as an answering machine or voice mail system answers without the risk of false positives of non fingerprint based AMD.

In one embodiment where contact centers want to ensure a live caller is not incorrectly classified as an audio recording calls to numbers for which there is no fingerprint in the database may be performed with AMD disabled. Instead the call analysis may look for the first utterance represented as a speech like signal. A fingerprint may be created of the first utterance and returned to the telephony services. The call may then be routed to an agent. When the agent indicates the call end point is an audio recording the fingerprint may be added to the database for that number. When a number is subsequently called for which an audio recording fingerprint exists this is passed to the media server. If speech is encountered that matches any of the fingerprints then it can be determined this may be an audio recording otherwise everything else is assumed to be a live caller and the call is passed to agents.

While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character it being understood that only the preferred embodiment has been shown and described and that all equivalents changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the inventions as described herein and or by the following claims are desired to be protected.

Hence the proper scope of the present invention should be determined only by the broadest interpretation of the appended claims so as to encompass all such modifications as well as all relationships equivalent to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification.

