---

title: Extensible networked multi-modal environment conditioning system
abstract: A distributed, self-organizing environment conditioning system with adaptive and learning behaviors that provide localized and targeted climate conditioning such as, but not limited to, temperature and humidity control in indoor and outdoor settings and more particularly, to extensible networked multi-modal autonomous systems of heating units working together to efficiently target objects for selective environmental control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09500377&OS=09500377&RS=09500377
owner: 
number: 09500377
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130330
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 618 828 filed Apr. 1 2012 and entitled EXTENSIBLE NETWORKED MULTI MODAL ENVIRONMENT CONDITIONING SYSTEM which is herein incorporate by reference.

The present invention is in the technical field of distributed self organizing environment conditioning systems with adaptive and learning behaviors that provide localized and targeted climate conditioning such as but not limited to temperature and humidity control in indoor and outdoor settings and more particularly to extensible networked multi modal autonomous systems of heating units working together to efficiently target objects for selective environmental control.

Current indoor heating systems are inefficient and expensive heating the whole room in order to heat the people inside it so that a person can move around freely within that space. Both forced hot air and hydronic systems circulating hot water or steam such as baseboard heaters used extensively in the northern United States heat mostly via convection which is very inefficient. They heat the air which circulates and eventually heats up points of need PONs and all objects in the room. Hot air rises so the warmest part is usually the ceiling the most unutilized part of the environment. Hydronic systems are often called radiators however they are principally convection devices with only a small portion of the energy being transferred by radiation. This radiation component heats objects directly without warming the air in between such as electric oil filled heaters where the oil is heated and circulated within a device that has fins to distribute heat from the device. The radiation is therefore poorly used with the energy decreasing exponentially with the distance from the source because it spreads in all directions this is the inverse square law of Physics. Other heating systems such as radiant floor heating systems provide an improvement because the temperature decreases with height where the warmth is near the bottom of a room and is colder as you go higher thus most of heat stays in a utilized area. This is better than convective systems because the temperature decreases with height thus most of it stays closer to the floor. The systems are therefore considered to have a good temperature profile where the heating is stable the floor acts as a thermal store but the system still heats the entire floor and room and does not take into consideration where an occupant is furthermore it typically takes time for the floor to warm up and cool down so there is a latency. Note that some convection is also created by this type of heating. Radiant floor heating is also expensive to install.

Other systems such as Electric Thermal Stores ETS use electricity to heat an object such as ceramic bricks or certain inorganic salt solutions. These materials have a very high capacity to store energy Thermal Mass and then release it when unplugged. They are useful when daytime peak electric tariffs are higher than nighttime off peak . The ETS is plugged in during the night to charge and unplugged during the day to discharge the heat. These have been in use in Europe since the 1940s but aren t common in the United States except in some rural electric cooperatives where dual tariffs exist. An ETS thus transfers energy temporally i.e. over time in addition to transferring it spatially. Additionally Near zero energy technologies exist to heat homes and offices that take advantage of insulation shading heat exchange with the outside solar panels wind turbines etc. but each system requires expensive reengineering if not a complete redesign of the building. Various other devices such as thermostats learn the user s behavior pattern exist but are also expensive and ultimately use the existing heating system of the house or office which can be an inefficient component. These devices do offer some savings by creating a heating plan that adapts as the person s usage changes and some systems provide home networking products specifically designed for controlling appliances.

Other heating systems such as portable electric heaters or outdoor radiant heaters used at bus stops hotel entrances and restaurants whether gas or electrically powered are efficient but only if the person sits and remains in close proximity to the device. In any of these systems the radiation is poorly used where the radiant energy decreases exponentially with distance from the source as it spreads in all directions the inverse square law of Physics and where areas are heated where there are no people. These systems therefore waste energy heating these areas where in general it takes a 1500 W heater to make a 10 10 room comfortable in winter.

Fans are also used with some radiant heaters to help circulate air faster thus improving convection and increasing the range of heat delivery. There are various fan and heating element designs but they all depend on raising the temperature of air by forcing it under pressure over or through heated elements to transfer the heat. The air is then blown out of the device. Hot air can dry out the environment.

Taking into consideration that skin absorbs electromagnetic infrared IR radiation at wavelengths from 780 nm to 1 mm which is felt as heat an IR A wavelength range of between 780 nm to 1400 nm centered on 1 000 nm provides the best sensation of heat as it has greater penetrating power. This means that the heat is dissipated in a larger skin volume creating more pleasant and diffuse warmth. For example the average male adult human has a surface area skin of two square meters front and back with approximately 75 of the body heat loss or gain is from radiation. While average body temperature is 36.67 C. 98.4 F. internally the human body generates about 130 W watts of power and needs to lose this power to the environment so that we don t overheat. For us to feel comfortable neither cold nor hot the ambient temperature should be about 26 C. 78 F. at desirable humidity levels of between 30 to 60 . Forced air heating systems tends to dry the air out effecting desirable humidity levels and our feeling of warmth. If a thermostat is maintained at 20 C. 68 F. the temperature at the body needs to be elevated by 6 C. 10 F. to get to the comfortable 26 C. which takes 68 W for the entire body or 3.4 mW cm2 milliwatts square centimeter . Thus at this point of need PON it takes 34 W to heat one side of the body or 11 W to heat one third of the front of the body assuming that the other two thirds is covered by clothing. Thus a system that transfers heat directly to the points of need PONs with the freedom of mobility and targeted efficiency would be desirable.

The distributed self organizing environment conditioning system provides localized and targeted climate conditioning with adaptive and learning behaviors to target temperature control in an environment to a point of need PON . The system comprises one or more devices of one or more types deployed in one or more settings to provide climate conditioning. A device is a package comprising one or more functional modules. Different types of devices have different packages of functional modules. The system does not define limits for what constitute functional modules or devices. Devices may have interlocking mechanisms to physically connect them with other devices. Devices can communicate with each other provided they have the necessary module s . Devices can work autonomously or in conjunction with others as a system in a network within which they self organize. This provides sophisticated abilities of adaptability perception and learning to provide efficient use of energy.

Considered broadly the system comprises devices which in turn comprise modules. A device is considered to be a physical integral unit comprising one or more modules for PROCESSING COMMUNICATION INPUT OUTPUT POWER and SOFTWARE. Devices have interlocking mechanisms to physically connect them with other devices. Devices work autonomously or in conjunction with other devices in an installation within which they self organize. This provides sophisticated abilities of adaptability perception and learning to provide efficient use of energy. Devices are designed to be easily programmable by the user and hobbyist communities allowing them to make their own modifications thereby allowing for faster innovation and best of breed enhancements in signal processing enhancements that can be propagated to devices in installations worldwide via software updates. One design principle being used is to take advantage of the relative low cost of today s microprocessors by building devices using lower cost less accurate physical components but compensating for that by using more sophisticated algorithms.

Devices can also be interfaced to external computing devices for the internet for further control as part of an Internet of Things a term coined in 1999 to refer to uniquely identifiable objects things and their virtual representations in an Internet like structure. Modules are functional units that reside within a device. Hardware and software modules are contemplated. Modules comprise parts. Software modules reside within hardware modules. The present invention does not set limits on the types or number of unique devices or modules or on their function.

As described herein the system comprises an extensible set of functional modules both physical hardware and software. Modules include but are not limited to heat transfer elements focusing optics waveguides band stop and band pass filters for electromagnetic radiation robotic targeting platforms microcontrollers software sensors such as but not limited to digital video cameras microphones pyrometers remote control receivers remote controls range finders servo control boards and servos thermometers with digital output speakers touchscreen interfaces keypad interfaces lights to indicate device status wireless and wired network interfaces thermal stores for heating and for cooling and their charging stations robotic platforms battery packs docking stations humidifiers with interfaces for computer control and stands to mount various devices.

Some modules can work independently processors and effectors others are dependent such as modifications of other modules elements that condition the output of the effectors with devices performing in areas mostly via radiation and convection to and from the target object for heating and cooling respectively using one or many functions of one or many device types.

The present invention is directed to a method and apparatus for a distributed dynamically self organizing system with adaptive and learning behaviors comprising devices of one or many types to provide energy efficient environment conditioning also called climate conditioning or climate control in this document indoors and outdoors to suit the needs of animate human or animal or inanimate objects within that environment. In the present invention one or many of the devices work autonomously or together to provide a heuristically optimal climate for the settings that they are in. Devices also provide and consume current and historical data about the environment in digital or analog formats. Contemplated systems include physical devices for the monitoring and control of temperature heating cooling humidity shade air circulation air quality and odors among others.

In the distributed self organizing environment conditioning system a module provides highly focused radiation using electromagnetic EM waves such as infrared heat laser emission or microwaves to target and heat only the point of need areas desired even from a large distance. Another module is a robotic platform with a tilt pan tray on which a module such as the focused EM device described above can be mounted. Another type of module is a thermal store which is heated or cooled at an energy source and can then be moved to the point of need for controlled heating or cooling of the area. The thermal store can signal when it needs to be charged i.e. be heated or cooled again. Another type of module is a robotic platform for carrying a payload such as the thermal store to a desired destination. The platform can return to a base station when it is issued a signal to do so for example when it needs to recharge its battery or its payload needs to recharge itself. Another type of module is a controller attached to one or more of the modules listed above to get sensor data and or to control the functioning of the module. Controllers may be standalone or part of a device. If connected to network modules the controllers can connect with other controllers to self organize and share information and enhance functionality over the environmental setting s they are in. Some examples of shared information are sensor data list of capabilities user preferences and dynamically generated maps of the settings.

In a first embodiment of the conditioning system of the present invention comprises a controller a heating element with focusing optics and an infrared pass through band pass filter on a robotic tilt pan tray on which is also fitted a digital camera providing a video feed to the controller. The software in the controller performs image processing on the video feed to detect and track people in the video frame and directs the tilt pan robot to move such that the heat is focused on a selected person. Software modules within the system provide data for analysis and control purposes within a software framework. These modules can be replaced modified or extended using specified hardware and software APIs interfaces for among other uses behavior modification and software updates.

The set of devices of the present invention installed within a network provides for at least one device being aware of the location and functionalities offered by all other devices and modules. This information the location and functionality is defined as a System Map. The System Map is distributed and shared with any devices with the capability to request and or to receive it. A dynamic routing table is created from the System Map. Devices in the installation are able to communicate with other devices either directly or indirectly via another device that acts as an ad hoc router. Addition removal and relocation of devices in the installation is detected and used to update the System Map.

The physical area covered by the installation is defined as a Settings. A Setting is defined as a part of a Settings that is convenient for individual analysis. A Setting is contemplated to be a room a hall a doorway a part of a warehouse among others. Settings can be dynamically or statically configured. Within the Settings devices with and without communication modules are contemplated. Devices with communication modules broadcast their location and capabilities periodically and also send this information at any time a query is received from any other device. This is used to update the System Map and Settings information. Absence of a device reporting its information within a grace period will cause the device to be removed from the System Map which will then be rebroadcast for syndication with the remaining devices in the installation. Devices without communication modules are detected by other devices with both appropriate sensors and communication modules.

Contemplated sensors include digital cameras microphones and pyrometers among others. Sensors are used to look for telltale signatures of other devices including shape sound color and heat output. Processors are digital and non digital modules. All suitable processors are contemplated including computers general purpose microcontrollers dedicated microcontrollers analog control systems digital signal processors FPGAs GPUs graphical processing units among others. All suitable communication modes for input and output are considered including software adherent to the Open Systems Interconnection OSI model ISO IEC 7498 1 which includes TCP IP and other networking protocols on a physical layer. Contemplated physical layers include EIA TIA 232 EIA TIA 449 ITU T V Series 1.430 1.431 PDH SONET SDH PON OTN DSL IEEE 802.3 IEEE 802.11 802.15.4 IEEE 802.15 IEEE 802.16 IEEE 1394 ITU T G.hn PHY USB Bluetooth RS 232 RS 449 pulse width modulation PWM and serially sent data with clock signals among others. Included too are software interfaces listening to a network port such as a TCP or UDP port or a web server utilizing the http or https protocols among others.

Contemplated communications transmitted between modules and external devices include current and historical information. External devices are defined as physical devices and software not principally designed to interact with the current inventions but which may be communicated with by the use of physical and or software adapters. Contemplated information includes digital video feeds global and local locations of devices and regions of interest ROIs identified by the devices spatial maps of the environment wide or localized temperature current weather any relevant information from the internet humidity level brightness air quality and odors among others. Contemplated ROIs include spatial information on humans of objects or of motion in the vicinity of a device. All contemplated communications are considered to be secured or non secured. All encryption algorithms for securing communications are considered including RSA SHA 2 Rijndael Blowfish Twofish among others.

Contemplated input modules include sensors and communications received from other devices. Contemplated sensors include digital cameras microphones for voice claps and other audible commands remote control receivers non contact temperature sensors pyrometers with a D S distance to spot ratio of 10 1 or higher keypads for data entry humidity measurement sensors range finders proximity sensors cliff sensors so a mobile device does not fall off an edge among others. All suitable communication modes for input are considered as listed in the communication modules above.

Contemplated output modules include those for effecting changes to the environment effectors those for providing mobility and those communicating with people or with other devices internal or external to the system. Contemplated Effectors include those for temperature humidity shade and air circulation mobile platforms amongst others. Effectors are contemplated to have ranges of influence that are narrow wide near shallow or far deep . Contemplated Effectors for mobility include robotic platforms that are able to carry a payload to a determined location. Effectors for mobility also include robotic targeting platforms utilizing tilt pan trays powered by motors including servo stepper and ordinary motors. Robotic platforms are tethered to a power source or untethered. Untethered platforms have integral or external batteries as the power source.

Contemplated Effectors for heating are portable and non portable. Portable heaters include those that are able to project focused radiant heat at a distance greater than 7 feet in addition to the commonly known methods of blowing hot air projecting radiant heat at a medium distance less than 7 feet contact devices including electric blankets and mobile thermal storage devices among others. Non portable systems include hydronic systems that use a circulating heated fluid in a pipe to provide warmth to the area it is in forced hot air from a central heating system and radiant underfloor heating. Contemplated effectors for cooling are portable and non portable. Contemplated portable devices include pedestal and table fans portable air conditioners mobile thermal stores air coolers that use evaporation of water to cool forced air among others. Contemplated non portable devices include wall and ceiling mounted fans and central air conditioning devices among others. All suitable communication modules for output are considered to use the same technology as used for communications input modules already listed.

All power delivery modules power modules are considered for use with the other modules of the system. Contemplated power modules are electric and non electric. All power modules are interfaced to a processor. The processor sends signals to the power module and receives signals from it. All signals from the processor to the power module are considered including on off direction to set the voltage and direction to set the maximum current. All signals to the processor from the power module are considered including the voltage and current and temperature of the power module among others.

Contemplated electric power modules are either connected to a wall socket to the building s power or are batteries one time use or rechargeable . Many electric power modules are contemplated including AC and DC sources at all frequencies and voltages. Commonly available voltages of 240V 230V 220V 140V 120V 110V 82V 36V 24V 12V 5V 3.3V 1.5V 1.2V 5V 12V are considered among others. All AC frequencies are considered including the commonly available frequencies of 50 Hz and 60 Hz. Power modules have safety cut offs which activate when current surges are detected. Safety cut off devices considered include circuit breakers fuses and computer controlled switches among others. Non electric power modules considered provide energy through the combustion of fossil fuels including natural gas and propane. The energy from this is principally used to heat an element to transfer the heat to the environment. Docking stations are power devices that are used by mobile devices to charge their batteries and to charge the payload of the mobile device should it be appropriate.

Contemplated software modules in the present invention include software to which changes and additions may be made easily to enhance functionality or to add new kinds of devices. The software is distributed and modular with clearly published and modifiable Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The set of APIs and their implementations effectively create a distributed Operating System OS . Some of the underlying software is available from open source sources i.e. the software and its source code are available gratis zero price and libre with little or no restriction in usage modification and distribution . Some of the software packages used may be OpenCV OpenFrameworks and OpenTLD for image processing Java and C for the programming environments and Linux MySQL Apache and JavaScript for web server based control interfaces.

Contemplated Software modules include gesture tracking human detection tracking among others. Gesture tracker GESTURE . This software module compares sequential frames from a video stream to compute differences which are used to identify the regions in the image where motion occurs. Subsequent locations of motion are compared to detect the locus of the object in motion. Gestures of interest contemplated include waving of the arm and drawing clockwise and anti clockwise circles in the air with the hand. If an object oscillates around a central point in a mostly horizontal manner with the average amplitude of motion about the same as the width of the bounding box of the object in motion AND the frequency of the motion is about 1 Hz the typical speed at which a human waves his or her arm AND the oscillatory behavior persists for a minimum of 5 oscillations then a human is deemed to have waved to the device. Similarly the module detects clockwise or anti clockwise circular motion by looking at the oscillation of the motion around a central point in both the horizontal and vertical directions such that the frequency is about 1 Hz AND that the deviation from the horizontal average is lowest when the deviation from the vertical average is highest and vice versa. This represents the basic equation of a unit circle sin 2 t cos 2 t 1 for angle t.

The human detection and tracking software module HUMDET processes images from a digital video stream looking for humans by using a combination of motion detection using differences between sequential frames from a video stream face detection body detection and other feature tracking and feature detection routines. Once the location of the region of interest ROI typically a bounding box in the video frame is determined to be an object worth tracking it is tracked both spatially and temporally so that the location of the object is known at all times.

The module predicts the locus of motion of the object based on its history both recent and long term. This information is used to anticipate its new location. Long term sophisticated learning can be programmed to for example heating chairs and sofas before they get used based on historical usage patterns. Objects that go outside the video frame are reacquired as targets when they reenter at the same location. When given information on the location of the camera the module keeps track of its position to calculate the ROIs local and global coordinates i.e. the one in which the camera exists . The HUMDET module also records and uses the velocity i.e. speed and direction and acceleration of objects so that it continues to accurately track them even when their motion is occluded by say a column or a piece of furniture. Extending this logic further objects are accurately tracked even when multiple objects cross each other s paths. This is important so that the targeting does not jump from one object to another.

In an embodiment the installation of a distributed self organizing environment conditioning systems that may be referred to herein as a Haser comprises contains devices such as a Rover a Control Unit and a HotHead . The Rover comprises a motor and a robotic tilt pan tray. The Control Unit CU comprises a microcontroller or processor and sensors from the contemplated list of sensors described earlier. The processor processes the information from the sensors especially the video stream to locate any humans in a Setting using the HUMDET software module. When a waving arm is detected by the GESTURE software module the processor fixates on the object at the location where the gesture was made. It targets the tilt pan tray of the Rover such that the object is dead center in the video frame of the camera and thus also the target of the Haser.

If a waving hand or arm is detected at another location the processor disengages from the current object being tracked and starts tracking the new object. It targets the Rover to point at the new location. The GESTURE software module is installed on the processor. If a clockwise motion is detected i.e. anti clockwise from the viewpoint of the person looking at the Haser power to the heating element is decreased. If an anti clockwise motion is detected i.e. clockwise from the viewpoint of the person look at the Haser power to the heating element is increased.

In this described embodiment one Haser may be provided for each person and may be thought of as a replacement for a personal heater where the software has logic to determine which Haser tracks which person when there is more than one person and more than one Haser in a Setting. Each Haser has an indicator that lights up randomly every 10 20 seconds to show that it is receptive to seeing a hand wave. If the GESTURE module detects a hand wave during the time the indicator is lit the Haser targets the object at that location. As the indicators light up randomly each Haser can be directed to a particular person waving a hand at the time its indicator is lit.

The Rover is a Thermal Store Unit TSU mounted on a robotic platform with a sensor complement including digital cameras cliff detectors proximity sensors wifi etc. In communicating with the processor of the HotHead the Rover is directed using the GESTURE software module to detect the person who waved at it and move to get closer to that person. The Rover device uses dynamic spatial mapping algorithms to learn the Setting and environment and to plan a solution to navigate to its goal. The TSU may be one for cooling or for heating. The purpose of the TSU is determined by the type of material used in the thermal store. In an embodiment a fan forces air over the heat transfer element in the TSU this can be pipes of fluid embedded in the thermal storage material and the conditioned air then flows to the target object to warm or cool the object. Alternately the heat transfer element is simply exposed in a safe manner so that heat is gained or lost via radiation and passive convection.

The Control Unit CU has one or more devices such as sensors from the list of contemplate sensors described above a processor controlled tilt swivel base to help position the CU to an area of interest an infrared projector to project a pattern on the frame of view to be captured by a digital camera with an infrared band pass filter in front of the lens. Using algorithms of the processor an infrared remote control receiver and hardware and software interface modules to read and or control external systems the 3D structure of the Setting and environment is determined. The CU further coordinates the workings of the system in conjunction with the environment and with any external systems. Other types of units such as humidifiers or dehumidifiers can be interfaced to the system via controller boards. One of the main purposes of the CU is to map the 3D layout of the room and the items therein including system units. The CU identifies objects needing heating such as people and in particular the areas of those objects that need heating e.g. skin . This information is provided to selected devices which are determined to be the ones most suitable for temperature control of the desired person or object because of their positioning within the Setting.

The location of an object or person may be determined for example by scanning a morse code like visual code output from the CU while simultaneously shining a bright laser on the visual code as described in systems of the prior art to help in triangulation using trigonometric and or heuristic means or availability via status updates over the network . For example the radiant energy from the Haser may be directed as line of sight meaning there must be a clear unobstructed path between the source and the target for the radiant energy to reach the target. If a part of the target is occluded a second Haser may be used to target that area. Alternatively a Rover can be sent towards the target to provide ambient warmth if that will better serve the goal. It is recommended that the CU is mounted or kept as high as possible this provides a better bird s eye view which makes for better utilization of the devices within the installation. In this example the video streams from the CU the two Hasers and the Rover are used to create a 3D map of the Setting. The Hasers slowly scanned over the Setting periodically to make temperature measurements using their pyrometers to create a low fidelity map of the hot and cold areas of the Setting. This information can be provided to the CU or to external auditors that can then determine further action such as insulating those areas . The CU uses the 2D and 3D maps of the Setting to help guide the Rover to its destination.

The HotHead is a module comprising a heating element at a minimum optical elements that focus the electromagnetic radiation emitted by the heating element in as collimated a beam as possible i.e. where the beam of radiation has little spread over a distance and a band stop filter that absorbs significant amounts of visible light and passes through other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum especially infrared. This is to minimize discomfort to the eye. All types of heating elements for producing a highly focused i.e. collimated beam of EM radiation are contemplated including the following. In the present invention such a device is referred to as an Electromagnetic Radiation Unit EMU . An EMU targets and heats only the desired areas at a functional distance much longer than that provided by heaters available in the prior art with similar power consumption. The area of focus of the EMU is variable. In an embodiment of the present invention the narrow beam of EM radiation diverges little even over distances of approximately 3 meters to 4.5 meters 10 feet to 15 feet using 1000 W of power. This feature of the present invention is a significant improvement of existing portable heaters that use 1200 W to 1500 W and can reach a maximum distance of approximately 1.8 meters 6 feet therefore in contrast to radiation from heating systems of the prior art this collimated beam is minimally affected by the inverse square law of physics. Thus significant parts of the EM generated by the EMU of the present invention reaches the target and in this way the module does not need to be in close proximity to the recipient.

A number of types of EMUs have been found to be effective and all are within the scope of the environment conditioning systems of the present invention. A LASER EMU is type of EMU that has an infrared IR laser source in an assembly that scans the target object with a laser to direct the EM radiation to the target in a narrow beam. A SPOT EMU is a type of EMU that uses a modified spotlight again to direct the EM radiation to the target in a narrow beam. A WIRE EMU is a type of EMU that uses a high resistance material such as but not limited to nichrome in a structure designed to maximize the resistance of a given volume of material in as small space as possible placed in optical elements to direct the EM radiation to the target in a narrow beam. An IRLED EMU is a type of EMU that uses arrays of IR LEDs to produce heat and that are placed in optical elements or an array of optical elements to direct the EM radiation to the target in a narrow beam or narrow beams. A MICRO EMU is a type of EMU that uses a microwave source placed in a waveguide to direct the EM radiation to the target in a narrow beam.

In an embodiment of the present invention a LASER EMU comprises a laser source such as one or more laser diodes or laser diode bars totaling between 40 to 60 W as net power output. An important feature in the present invention is the use of a combination of EM radiation at different wavelengths producing an optimal mix of those that are absorbed well by human tissue and those that produce a strong sensation of warmth as described herein. In this embodiment the LASER EMU may produce wavelengths close to the 1 000 nm 1 400 nm range such as using laser diodes and laser diode with coherent outputs at 808 nm and 980 nm outputs. The uniquely designed multiple Laser Heads of the present invention working independently and together are capable of reducing the intensity of the laser via direct diodes or beam splitters and then spreading the beam over a larger area providing about 4 mW cm2 irradiance radiation flux per unit area i.e. always less than the eye safety levels for Class IIIa ANSI Class 3R IEC lasers. Lasers are inherently dangerous and particular care must be taken to ensure that the invention is eye safe. In the present invention prisms lenses and mirrors may be used to achieve these effects. Each Laser Head also has a low intensity Class II ANSI Class 2 IEC laser referred to herein as a LASER POINTER that can be used to on demand highlight the areas being painted by the heating LASER EMU which itself is invisible . The LASER POINTER is also used to determine depth information from the camera s frame using basic trigonometry and triangulation. This visible laser is also used to identify regions of interest to the human user such as areas of the room that are colder than others which can indicate where better insulation may be required.

Laser safety is a priority and therefore in the present invention each Laser Head has two redundant built in subsystems that check several times a second that the laser is indeed physically moving and scanning and that the irradiance falls within parameters. The subsystems in the present invention must both report success in order for the laser to continue scanning otherwise it is immediately shut down and the unit flashes the onboard LED to indicate an error code while simultaneously broadcasting the status on the network so that the other units can reconfigure themselves. The safety subsystems cannot have their software controlling logic updated remotely without highly secure validations including the need for the user to be physically present near the unit. This is to avoid malicious targeting of the unit safety is therefore very important.

The LASER EMU also uses a proximity sensor which will shut off operation if objects come too close to it. A further safety feature is that no two beams may intersect either whether from one unit or from different units. This prevents a cumulative effect at any place in the field of operation which is higher than the safety level specified for the operation of any one laser head. Radiation levels are less than the MPE maximum power exposure limits of power density vs. exposure for all wavelengths used. A tip over safety switch is also provided which turns off operation of the LASER EMU if the unit is not in the vertical position i.e. it tips over.

Optical elements of the LASER EMU are used to collimate the laser light. Each Laser Head has optics that widens the laser within it to a larger still collimated beam of lower irradiance. A combination of low cost mirror galvanometers galvos and a beam expander is used. The galvos are used to define the size of the coverage. The galvos also determine the shape of the area to be painted by the laser which is generally circular or elliptical. First surface mirrors or front surface mirrors also commonly abbreviated FS mirror are used. These are mirrors where the reflective surface is above the backing as opposed to the conventional second surface mirrors where the reflective surface is behind a transparent substrate such as glass or acrylic.

A SPOT EMU comprises a number of halogen bulbs also called lamps being used as heat sources. The SPOT HotHead in an embodiment of the present invention comprises a SPOT EMU set within optical elements to collimate the EM radiation produced. Halogen lamps produce significant amounts of infrared in addition to visible light and the infrared is sensed as heat by the human body. The power input to the lamp can be changed manually or under electronic control so as to produce more or less heat. Contemplated power ratings of halogen bulbs include 2000 W 1500 W 1000 W 750 W 500 W 300 W and 250 W among others. The optical elements of the SPOT EMU contemplated within the present invention include parabolic reflectors lenses and band stop filters. The parabolic reflectors are made of materials highly reflective of radiation from the heating element such as aluminium reflectors good for both infrared and visible light gold absorbs more visible light than aluminium silvered glass reflectors less efficient than aluminium reflectors and dichroic reflectors selectively transmit absorb and reflect different parts of the electromagnetic spectrum . Front surface metal reflectors reflect more of the EM radiation than their silvered glass counterparts.

Lenses are made of materials highly transmissive of infrared radiation. They are of sizes and focal lengths such that much of the radiance of the heating element is transmitted in a collimated beam. The use of Fresnel lenses is preferred over regular lenses as the Fresnel lenses are lighter in weight and also transmit more of the radiation incident upon them. Band stop filters that absorb significant amounts of visible light and let pass through other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum especially infrared help to minimize discomfort to the eye. One embodiment of a filter is a Lexan filter another embodiment is a set of multiple theatrical gels such as Rosco filters such that visible light is minimized and radiation that heats is maximized. An example of this would be two sheets of Rosco Fire red and two Congo blue. Another embodiment of a filter is a dichroic filter material such as that available at Edmund Scientific. These filters selectively reflect and pass through various wavelengths. A silicon wafer mirrored on both sides can also be used to remove all of the visible radiation no visible radiation is detectable whereas IR radiation above roughly 1300 nm is passed through.

The collimation and direction of the beam may be changed by dynamically altering the location of the heating element within the coordinate systems of the optical elements. The optical elements are typically several times larger than the lamps. The location of the heating element can be dynamically changed within the local coordinate systems of the optical element s in order to alter the beam characteristics. Contemplated characteristics include beam shape collimated wider or narrower and direction on center off center in a specific direction . The mechanism for moving the heating element may be manual or use electromechanical devices under electronic control.

In an embodiment of the present invention a spotlight such as an AluPAR64 1000 W VNSP Very Narrow SPotlight lamp is used that has a parabolic reflector of 8 diameter made of aluminum at the focal point of which is placed a 1000 W halogen bulb. Any glass plate covering the front of the spotlight is removed as the plate itself absorbs some of the IR radiation from the lamp. A smaller parabolic reflector placed in front of the lamp reflects the spherical wavefront from the front of the bulb back towards the larger rear reflector to enhance the collimation of the waves. In a further embodiment using a parabolic reflector similar to the one described above one or more halogen lamps which are connected in series or parallel each subjected to a voltage less than its rating are placed within the reflector. For example a 1000 W 110V halogen bulb is provided 55V. This has the effect of producing less power but a larger fraction of that power is in the infrared IR part of the EM spectrum which is desirable for the present invention. Thus a lamp rated at 1000 W provides electricity at a lower voltage than its rating if it were to produce 500 W and dissipates more of that power as infrared radiation than a lamp rated at 500 W at full voltage. Halogen lamps are quite bright and thus need a filter to cut out as much of the visible light as possible.

In a still further embodiment a WIRE EMU that uses a high resistance material such as but not limited to nichrome in a structure designed to maximize the resistance of a given volume of material in as small space as possible is placed in optical elements to direct the EM radiation to the target in a narrow beam. Many structures are contemplated including a coiled coil. The WIRE HotHead comprises a Wire EMU in a configuration similar to that of a SPOT EMU where the SPOT EMU is replaced by a WIRE EMU.

An IRLED EMU has arrays of infrared IR LEDs. These LEDs are typically of higher power than those used as light indicators. Desired wavelengths contemplated include those in the 808 nm to 1400 nm range which are commonly available in addition to others emitting in the infrared spectrum. An IRLED HotHead is contemplated to comprise an IRLED EMU where either each LED has its own optical elements for collimating the beam including a local reflector and or lens or the array of LEDs have a single larger reflector and or lens. A MICRO EMU is a type of EMU that uses a microwave source emitting at about 95 GHz placed in a waveguide to direct the EM radiation to the target in a narrow beam. This part of the EM spectrum among others produces the sensation of heat in the human body. A MICRO HotHead is contemplated to comprise a microwave source considered a point source such as a microwave gun in front of which is a horn antenna or feedhorn or a simple dipole antenna in front of which is placed a lens antenna. The lens antenna collimates the spherically radiating microwave energy into a plane wave in a given direction . One type of lens antenna is the waveguide type lens that comprises several parallel concave metallic strips which are placed parallel to the electric field of the radiated energy fed to the lens. Another type of lens antenna is a delay lens which slows down the phase propagation velocity as the wave passes through the lens. The delay lens is convex and is constructed of dielectric material. The delay in the phase of the wave passing through the lens is determined by the DIELECTRIC CONSTANT REFRACTIVE INDEX of the material. Another type of lens antenna is a LOADED MICROWAVE LENS is a multi cellular array of thousands of cells. Each cell contains a slow wave delayed serrated metal plastic supported waveguide element which acts as a phase controlling device.

Another Heating or Cooling module contemplated within the scope of the present invention is the Thermal Store Unit TSU comprising the following elements a heat store a cold store a heat exchanger an external shell or skin a power source and a fan. For a heat store a thermal material with high thermal mass such as ceramic bricks or certain inorganic salt solutions or a combination thereof may be used. These materials have a very high capacity to store energy Thermal Mass because of their specific heat capacity kJ kg K and or latent heat of fusion kJ kg . Note that different materials will be needed depending on whether the desired effect is heating or cooling. In further embodiments as described herein the purpose of the TSU is to provide heat. For a cold store a thermal material such as water that has a high latent heat to switch from the solid ice to liquid states. This material is frozen so that the temperature differential between it and the ambient temperature causes heat transfer. The heat exchanger is used to warm or cool the thermal material. This is plugged into the power source. The external shell or skin creates an air space between the shell and the radiation apparatus of thermal material so as to provide a buffer from unwanted heat effects such as burns from direct contact. The power supply may be one or more rechargeable batteries for running its electronics and electrical devices. The fan can be used to dissipate the energy faster. The fan forces air over the heat exchanger elements for thermal store air transfer. These elements may be different from those used to transfer heat between the TSU and the power source.

For a heat store a high enough temperature must be achievable in the material such that the temperature differential between the TSU and the ambient temperature causes it to produce a large amount of heat over an extended period of time such as a melting point of 180 F. 82 C. which is the same temperature at which hydronic systems heat the circulating water. The TSU in the present invention will have LEDs that make it glow the intensity of the glow indicating the thermal energy left in the unit before it gets too close to room temperature to be of use. A threshold level may be set so that when reached the default operation is for the unit to go back to the charging station. Due to the type of materials used the TSU may necessarily be a somewhat bulky object and can be mounted on wheels or on top of a mobility unit such as a semi autonomous robotic platform RPU . A TSU is ideally suited to provide heat or to cool to one or two people. The unit may be of a round square or cylindrical shape to help with maneuvering around objects and corners. The unit may also be somewhat bottom heavy which lowers the centre of gravity making it less likely to tip over. An important feature of the unit is tip over safety switch which turns off operation if the unit is not in the vertical position i.e. it tips over.

Another type of module is a robotic platform unit RPU used for carrying a payload to a desired destination. The RPU module can return to a base station when issued a command to do so or when it needs to recharge its power source. The TSU is the typical payload for this device. Note that the TSU can be quite heavy 50 100 lbs so the RPU includes motors with appropriate gearing and heavy duty batteries allowing it to carry a larger payload. The RPU may have three wheels of which two provide power and are connected to separate motors as s fairly standard for robot mobility platforms of the prior art. The RPU can turn in any direction making left or right turns when appropriate with the wheels rotating at different angular velocities to provide for the unit to make tight turns. The RPU can either go to a specified location as described herein or follow a weak radio transmitter which the person can keep on a keychain a beacon to move the TSU into close proximity of the person. The RPU uses a combination of artificial neural networks ANNs randomness deliberately inserted noise and heuristics smart guesses in its software to plan its movement based on its own sensors and on information provided via the network from the CU or from any of the other devices. The RPU is further provided with sensors from the list of sensors contemplated earlier in the document.

In the present invention the Battery Unit BU provides extra batteries if a larger range of motion is needed. The BU articulates with the standard fittings on the RPU and the other units. Any of the described devices can be mounted on a wall or a stand with the exception of the RPU that is mobile and the docking station that is positioned on the floor for access by the RPU. A device may have appurtenances on the back of the unit for wall mounting along with a mounting bracket and or on the bottom of the unit for mounting on a stand. The thermal stores do not have mounting brackets on the bottom because they are too heavy to mount on a stand safely. Devices may further have cushioned feet to protect a surface that the unit is placed on. The heating devices are also internally insulated to be cool to the touch and cooling devices are internally insulated to minimize condensation on the exterior and the interior. A stand that can be mounted on the RPU or the BU units by means of the articulating points standard to the units of this system. The EMU can be mounted on top of the stand. Power to the EMU is then routed via the stand.

A list of prior art follows except for items which will be used by the current invention which are in the public domain those will be enumerated in the summary of the invention. Microprocessor based control systems or microcontrollers are widely available. A mobile thermal store design to store and spatially transfer heat to another location is known to exist under the name HAgent. There is some prior art for laser or microwave based heating systems including the ADS Active Denial System being used by US military and police. This uses directed microwaves in the 95 GHz range which penetrates the surface of the skin and causes a sharp pain with no lasting effects. The Microsoft Kinect is a sensor unit used by the Microsoft Xbox gaming console which provides multiple sensory devices camera infrared camera infrared projector .

It is an object of the present invention to provide a distributed self organizing environment conditioning system with adaptive and learning behaviors that provide localized and targeted climate conditioning.

It is a further object of the present invention that the system networks and controls various devices to monitor and control temperature and humidity in indoor and outdoor settings by efficiently tracking and targeting objects for selective environmental control.

The present invention is related to an extensible networked multi modal autonomous environment conditioning system comprising at least one control unit at least one electromagnetic radiation unit and wherein at least one control unit directs the electromagnetic radiation unit to a moving animate object and radiates the animate object only at a desired point of need area to selectively adjust the body temperature of the animate object. The extensible networked multi modal autonomous environment conditioning system may further comprise at least one robotic platform unit at least one thermal store unit and at least one monitoring unit that tracks at least one of temperature humidity shade air circulation air quality and odors. The extensible networked multi modal autonomous environment conditioning system may further include a rechargeable battery system. In the extensible networked multi modal autonomous environment conditioning system at least one control unit may communicate with at least another control unit to self organize share information and enhance functionality over the environmental setting s of the control units. The shared information may be one of at least sensor data list of capabilities user preferences historic environmental data and dynamically generated maps of the settings. The laser electromagnetic radiation unit of the extensible networked multi modal autonomous environment conditioning system may be at least one of a laser electromagnetic radiation unit a spot electromagnetic radiation unit a wire electromagnetic radiation unit an infrared light emitting diode electromagnetic radiation unit and a microwave source electromagnetic radiation unit. The extensible networked multi modal autonomous environment conditioning system of claim wherein the electromagnetic radiation unit radiates a target at a range of 3 meters to 4.5 meters 10 feet to 15 feet . In the extensible networked multi modal autonomous environment conditioning system at least one control unit detects an animate object by tracking motion of the object through gestures.

The present invention is further related to a method of thermally conditioning an environment comprising the steps of mapping a setting detecting movement of an animate object through gestures within the setting determining a point of need on the animate object directing electromagnetic radiation to the point of need adjusting the body temperature of the animate object based on sensing of environmental conditions. The method of thermally conditioning an environment may further comprise the step of moving the electromagnetic radiation source towards the animate object using a robotic platform unit. The method of thermally conditioning an environment of may also further comprise the step of moving a thermal store unit towards the animate object using a robotic platform unit. The method of thermally conditioning an environment of may also further comprise the step of monitoring one of at least temperature humidity shade air circulation air quality and odors.

The method of thermally conditioning an environment further comprises the step of recharging one of at least the electromagnetic radiation source and the robotic platform unit and the step of communicating with at least one control unit to self organize share information and enhance functionality over the environmental setting. The method of communicating shared information may include the step of communication one of at least sensor data list of capabilities user preferences historic environmental data and dynamically generated maps of the settings. The method of thermally conditioning an environment further comprises the step of directing electromagnetic radiation to the point of need using one of at least a laser electromagnetic radiation unit a spot electromagnetic radiation unit a wire electromagnetic radiation unit an infrared light emitting diode electromagnetic radiation unit and a microwave source electromagnetic radiation unit. The method of thermally conditioning an environment also further comprises the step of directing the electromagnetic radiation to a point of need that is at a distance from the electromagnetic radiation source in a range of 3 meters to 4.5 meters 10 feet to 15 feet . The method of thermally conditioning an environment also further comprises the step of reducing the intensity of the laser electromagnetic radiation unit using direct diodes and beam splitters and spreading the beam to maintain the beam at intensities within eye safety levels.

Reference will now be made to the figures where various structures will be provided with reference number designations. It is understood that the drawings are diagrammatic and schematic representations of possible embodiments of the invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention nor are they necessarily down to scale. Further one skilled in the art will appreciate that terms such as top bottom lower and upper as used herein are merely words used to describe the accompanying figures and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention in any way.

Items in the diagrams are referenced by the following numbers which are consistent in indicating the same or same type of item across the diagrams.

In the present invention the TSU glows red when it is hot and this changes to a lighter pink as the heat fades away. The control software provides for the TSU to automatically go back to the docking station for charging where in a first embodiment a partner TSU leaves the station and goes to the point of need PON providing radiant heat . The control software can also provide either for the TSU using the RPU to go to a specified location as described herein or follow a weak radio transmitter or beacon which the person can keep on a keychain to move the TSU into close proximity of the person. The charger at the docking station charges the batteries in all the devices in the stack on the RPU. It also heats the thermal masses in the TSUs in the stack. The charger delivers enough power such that this power is more than the energy dissipation rate of the TSU when it is in heat transfer mode at the point of use.

Devices environment conditioning system can communicate via a network if thus enabled over a wire or wirelessly. In the present figure all devices have wireless networking . The CU and Hasers have most of the sensors and processors and together exhibit distributed intelligence in how to best use the resources available to address the environmental conditioning requirements of the Setting. The remote control in the present invention can be used to provide directives to the system such as powering it up or down selecting a device to communicate with each device will emit a beep and flicker lights rapidly to indicate that it is the one the user will be communicating with . The remote control also has a built in laser pointer which can be used to highlight an area that the system should be heating or to subtract an area from the map of what can be heated. Pointing the laser on the remote control at a device also selects that device in particular to respond to the remote control . Hasers also include a laser pointer in the form of a low power visible laser that can be turned on to highlight among other objects cold areas of the Setting or places frequented by people. The temperature sensor s on the devices are swept all over the room to create a low resolution thermal map typically distance to diameter D S ratio of 10 1 of the objects in it.

The custom microcontrollers in the extensible networked multi modal environment conditioning system of the present invention continuously perform image processing many times a second to determine what to heat and when. All the software is modifiable and thus the system can get smarter as enhancements are made by a manufacturer and or by the user community at large. The software takes advantage of behavior patterns of humans and other animals for example a person does and cannot stop moving immediately. A slow down must happen and a person or animal usually does not move spatially very rapidly in an indoor environment unless dancing . There are typical strata above the floor that parts of our body occupy such as the position of the head while lying down the position of the head and hands while sitting on a sofa or a chair and the position of the feet hands and legs while standing. The conditioning system s computer vision software is augmented with this behavioral knowledge.

In the present invention as shown in a Haser can heat only what is available in the line of sight. To alleviate this multiple Hasers may be installed in an environment such that they provide a continuous range of coverage . Note that the areas of coverage are representative of the entire sweep of all HotHeads and it is not to be understood that the entire range is always covered by them.

In the present invention as shown in a first embodiment of a Haser is shown. It has a control panel which has some features available though the entire feature set may only be available via the remote control or via a control panel on a computer where a program may be used to interact with the Haser via a wired or wireless network. Such a program may be an internet web based application. The Haser is connected to electric power using a power supply that may be compatible with any electrical power source the device having the capability for example to operate with either 110V or 220V electric mains. A fan provides exhaust for the heat generated in the unit which also results in heating the Setting so nothing goes to waste. The Haser may have one or multiple HotHeads especially designed for this invention. HotHeads can be implemented with various technologies some of which are described herein. In this embodiment there are four HotHeads each of which may work independently of one another and be independently positioned with respect to the others so that one or all of the HotHeads may focus on one person or on several people depending on the conditioning requirements and number of persons or animate objects within the Setting. The sensor panel contains a microphone camera infrared remote receiver and temperature sensor pyrometer . These sensors are used to respond to spoken commands determine the 3D layout of the room and its occupants and to accept commands via an infrared remote control .

In the present invention in an alternative embodiment of a Haser is shown which has an alternate layout of the components and six instead of the four HotHeads in thus with the ability to deliver more power. Note that the fan in both the embodiments and is placed on the opposite side and above the temperature sensor so as not to create errors in readings. Articulation points for stacking of the Haser are also shown.

In the present invention in an exploded view of Haser from is shown. A power supply is connected to the device. The back sides and bottom of the device are assembled in one piece . The top of the unit is not shown and is distinct from the front face . The device can be hung from a wall using the holes . The left side of the unit when looking at it from the front has an air intake to keep cool fresh air flowing through the system and maintaining its internal temperature. A wireless network antenna may also be provided. The microcontroller board is connected via a wiring harness to the control panel an additional wiring harness continues and provides power and signals to fan the HotHeads and the sensor array .

In this particular embodiment LASER HotHeads are used. SPOT HotHeads WIRE HotHeads and others can also be used. The controller is also connected to the laser source which may be a laser diode bank with beam splitters which then feeds the lasers to the HotHeads via fiber optic cables . The power and other controls for the laser source are delivered via cable .

In the present invention in the LASER HotHead houses an articulated 2 degree of freedom dual servo motor system that is used to position the galvanometer box galvo box so that it can paint a medium sized area with the laser beam . These servos motors move relatively slowly in comparison to those inside the galvo assembly . The design of this component of the invention takes advantage of cheaper components and is similar in articulated control as for example an arm where the shoulder and the elbow are used for gross motion and the hand is used for faster more nimble tasks. The servos motors and spin orthogonally to each other. The galvo box has a laser cavity through which the laser beam exits. The laser source is provided via a lightweight optic fibre and the power and control information is provided by the bus wires . The front of the Laser EMU is covered by a glass that is transparent to infrared radiation.

A first exemplary embodiment of a parabolic reflector denoting a cross section is shown in . The cross sectional view is shown in with an infrared pass filter . A first exemplary embodiment of a WIRE HotHead comprising a parabolic reflector is shown in . In this first embodiment the WIRE EMU has a high resistance wire structured on a heat resistant scaffold and an IR pass filter . Many high resistance wires are contemplated within the scope of the present invention including nichrome. Several structures are contemplated for the high resistance wire including the coiled coil shown in . Several heat resistant materials including mica are considered to build the scaffold shown in for the high resistance wire. Many scaffold shapes are considered including radially symmetrical shapes i.e. rectangles shown extruded crosses shown and other n pointed star shapes. is a first exemplary embodiment of a SPOT HotHead comprising a parabolic reflector a SPOT EMU and an IR pass filter . A first exemplary embodiment of a SPOT EMU shown here is a high wattage e.g. 300 W 1000 W halogen lamp bulb . Most of the energy from the lamp is emitted as IR light and thus is felt as heat.

In the present invention as shown in an embodiment of a Thermal Storage Unit TSU with a switch that turns the unit on or off is shown. The TSU automatically coordinates with any other devices in the area via its wireless network interface to perform its heating function. To this end it uses the fan to optionally drive air through the heated thermal mass and or PCM phase change materials within it as shown in . The TSU has articulation points a set of three on a surface which can be used to put the unit in a stack of RPUs and BUs . A handle is provided which can be used to transport the TSU from one location to another. The handle folds down when not needed or when the TSU needs to be stacked and have another device e.g. another TSU placed on top of the unit . The TSU has a service panel which is removed to perform maintenance on the device.

In the present invention as shown in LEDs light up when the unit is in service and the strength of the glow indicates the thermal energy left in the thermal mass PCM inside the unit . The TSU uses the antenna to communicate with other devices in the area. The fan is used to optionally drive air out of the system into the room in order to control the heat within an area such as to provide for an area to be heated more quickly. The articulation points are used when stacking devices one on top of the other these points provide both power and communication pathways. The handle may fold into the body of the TSU when not in use.

In the present invention as shown in an exemplary embodiment of a Robotic Platform Unit RPU has an antenna that is used to communicate with other devices wirelessly . The RPU is positioned at the bottom part of a physical stack of devices and has articulation points for other devices such as BUs TSUs and CUs and Hasers to be placed on top to provide mobility to the devices. The articulation points automatically provide power and communication between the devices as necessary. The RPU can be manually turned on or off with the power button . If the unit receives no directive from any other devices e.g. a statically mounted CU or Haser elsewhere in the Setting or a remote control via remote receiver not shown and if it has a payload such as a TSU or Haser it will do image processing to attempt to identify animate objects such as people or animals in the vicinity and go to the closest one found. Distance and cliff sensors are provided for navigation and to prevent the RPU from falling down stairs. A camera is placed as high in the unit as possible to improve computer vision. The RPU may have two powered wheels each run by an independent servo motors or other motor systems to adequately maneuver the device in and around obstacles within a Setting. In a first embodiment the independent servos are made to run at different speeds to provide for the robot turn within a small turning radius to avoid obstacles. A smaller wheel in the front that is unpowered may be provided. The support structure of the base and wheels of the RPU is designed to be able to carry large weights such as a battery pack of about 12V at 18 Ah and other devices within the conditioning system . The RPU is designed for short runs within the Setting while carrying heavy loads where these runs may not include extensive movements. The control software may include a time lag between the moment motion of an animate object is detected and a command for movement is sent to the RPU using for example a timer or a low pass filter. This delay eliminates constant shuffling movement of a device in a case where a person or other animate object moves around frequently. This controlled movement assists in preventing a TSU or other device from getting in the way of a person frequently moving within a Setting doing what he or she needs to do.

In the present invention as shown in a sample stack of two TSUs a battery unit BU and an RPU is shown. In this stacked formation the system is able to provide more thermal energy than a single TSU which is an advantage of the field configurable nature of the system. While the RPU may have its own battery pack the BU may provide additional power for the RPU to compensate for the additional weight of the second TSU .

In the present invention as shown in an exemplary embodiment of a docking and charging station that uses a power supply to charge an RPU TSU or BU is shown. For example if an RPU with a TSU stacked on top is at the docking station the battery of the RPU will be charged and the TSU will be heated or chilled as per its function. The docking station also communicates wirelessly with other devices and has a button to turn on or to stop charging. The docking station automatically determines the type of unit that is charging and provides the adequate power requirements for that specific device. Charging requirements at docking points on the station may provide the appropriate high voltage power after communicating with a microcontroller in the TSU BU or RPU .

In the present invention as shown in an exemplary embodiment of a battery unit BU has a power switch that makes it active or inactive and articulation points to place it in a stack of other units. These connection points provide power to the other units and also provide communication between the different units. The BU may also communicate current status and health wirelessly through its microcontroller not shown . The BU may have a handle for carrying and this handle can fit into a recess when the BU is stacked with other devices.

In the present invention as shown in a collapsible stand for the use of mounting and supporting a Haser or other device has a power button and articulation points on both the top and at the bottom for flexible stacking configurations. In the fully extended mode the stand may be of a height of an adult human or in a range of approximately 1 to 2.5 meters to properly direct radiant heat from the system . The stand also has a socket for plugging in a power supply not shown . The stand may be used to support a device such as a Haser or CU that may be mounted on an RPU with for example a BU or TSU to provide mobility and a higher vantage point. This is an attractive solution to the gas fired outdoor heaters used in restaurants as devices in the present invention make less noise and produce no unpleasant odors.

In the present invention as shown in an exemplary embodiment of a remote control RC is shown. The remote control has a number of control actuators or buttons to set commands control voice on and off or set learning modes for example with a left button may be used to position a TSU at a point of need PON a middle button may turn on a learn mode to have the conditioning system remember a temperature setting or location within a Setting an Up button and a Down button may function to raise or lower a stand with a Haser or other devices supported on the stand a Right button may control movement and direction of one or more HotHeads an infrared IR diode may send commands to the CU a laser diode may be used to highlight regions that the user wishes to add or remove from the heating plan a power button may power on and off one device or by pressing it rapidly three times for example the button may shut the entire system down a Device Select button may direct a command at a device an illuminate button may be used so that visible lasers can be turned on to show the areas being heated the warmest areas and or the coldest areas of the room or Setting where this information may be used to plan for insulation or other modification within the Setting. The remote may also include a Default button that will reset the current device to its default settings. Pressing this button for example three times rapidly may set the entire system to its default settings. The existing learned settings may not be destroyed but may be kept in memory to be retrieved and reused via the remote or a web interface to the system which is accessible via the wireless network. The return to charge button will return the TSU on an RPU with the weakest charge to the charging station. The button and the button may be used for minimal adjustments to target the system to the proper environmental conditions and or may be used for a variety of other fine tuning adjustments. For example the temperature mode button may be pressed before using the and buttons to adjust for the optimal personal temperature. The remote may also include other feature and controls to monitor and adjust the environment conditioning system to optimal conditions for the Setting and persons within the Setting.

In the present invention as shown in an exemplary embodiment of a Control Unit CU is shown. The CU has a power supply a tilt swivel base that is used to position the unit to view an area of interest articulation points to provide alternate power communication and signaling cameras and microphones for stereoscopic visual and stereo aural perception respectively a speaker for verbal communication back to the user and additional communication ports for the connection of input output devices such as an infrared projector for fast 3D layout calculations. The CU has a control panel that though use of the remote control or gesturing towards the camera provides for manual control and communication if desired.

As shown in various types of existing built in heating systems are shown with their airflow patterns and distribution of temperature. Radiant floor heating also marked as Radiant Heating in has a similar distribution pattern that suits the preferred usage Ideal Heating pattern of the present invention. The temperature profiles showing a comparison of temperature as compared to the height from the floor or heating source using various heating methods currently in use and as are compared to the ideal curve. As shown in the typical airflow of a portable heater using convection is shown. The laminar airflow quickly gives way to turbulent airflow making it inefficient to heat a person directly outside a range of 1.2 meters to 1.8 meters 4 feet to 5 feet . The directional heating of the present invention s HotHeads are therefore a significantly better design and can reach a point of need at distance that are three times this range for about the same power usage. As shown in modes of heat loss and gain from the human body are shown where 75 of heat transfer is through radiation. This information is further shown in the chart of that shows the heat exchange from clothed and unclothed humans at various temperatures via various methods evaporation radiation convection metabolism and storage . Exchange through each mode is more or less dependent on the ambient temperature and humidity. By targeting locations of exposed skin on a person as described in the present invention points of need PON for an individual are efficiently maintained at proper temperatures to provide for perspiration conduction convection and radiation of heat from a person s body. The present invention further provides radiant heat using lasers that are well within the laser safety requirements as shown in that shows the accepted levels for maximum power exposure MPE of power density versus exposure time for various wavelengths. As shown in various waveguide lenses for use in the MICRO EMU using microwave radiation may be used in the conditioning system for the electromagnetic radiation unit. As shown in using a source of microwave radiation such as a feedhorn generates rays in radial sections which creates a spherical wavefront that travels through the air medium and reaches the metallic medium of the collimating parallel metallic strips of a parallel plate lens . This lens has the property of converting the spherical waveform to a plane waveform on the exit side of the lens propagating in a direction away from the source. The waveguide parallel plate lens with collimating metallic strips for use in the MICRO EMU is shown in an isometric view in . In a further embodiment a waveguide lens for the MICRO EMU is shown in . In this embodiment a microwave source through a feedhorn generates a spherical wavefront that is collimated by a dielectric convex lens to generate a plane wavefront . This type of microwave lens slows the phase propagation velocity as the wave passes through the lens. The lens is convex and constructed of dielectric materials. The inner portion of the transmitted wave is decelerated for a longer interval of time than the outer portions. The delay causes the radiated wave to be collimated to be directed at a point of need PON . In a still further embodiment a loaded microwave lens as shown in has a multi cellular array of thousands of cells that act as a phase controlling device to convert a spherical wavefront to a plane wavefront.

The system architecture for the environment conditioning system of the present invention includes one or more devices each comprising one or more modules including at least a power module and a housing and at least one module for input sensor output environment conditioning or processing. Devices have inputs either physical modules or data received via network interfaces. It is contemplated that several types of sensors will be made available to the present invention including digital video cameras microphones pyrometers cliff sensors range finders humidity odor and tilt sensors. Processors are analog or digital. Analog processors are typically feedback loops. Digital processors comprise at least one of the following CPU GPU FPGA in addition to memory and optional network adapters. Environment conditioning modules include Thermal Store Units TSUs and HotHeads which comprise EMUs optics and filters. A networked humidifier is also contemplated that provides moisture as needed. The physical appearance of devices their identifying features and or attached QR Codes are used by devices with video cameras to mapping the setting that the devices are in.

As shown in the distributed self organizing environment conditioning system includes integration and control of these devices and accessories using a distributed software network through wired or wireless connections. Communication to and from the system may be facilitated using the stand or other devices. Inputs to the system may be through a touchscreen keypad remote control internet connection or other data entry device. Sensors may include cameras microphones temperature sensors threshold level sensors humidity measurements odor sensors range sensors speed sensors location sensors obstacle sensors tilt sensors and other data measuring devices. The system may further be designed with physical features that are identifiable by another device within the Setting and environment. The series of modules are integrated with power supplies and power management systems and with processors and control systems. These control systems may be a digital processor such as a computer system or an analog processor with simple a feedback loop . The system may further include output system to provide messaging and diagnostics. To maintain and condition the temperature and humidity within the Setting or environment the system controls and monitors the environment conditioning modules that include a number of devices such as thermal store units TSU networked humidifier devices and HotHeads that include one or more electromagnetic radiation units EMU of various configurations. The integration of these devices provides adaptive and learning behaviors for the system to update and optimally adjust the environment with a Setting.

In this embodiment as shown in the system integrates a Haser and a Rover with each device under the control of the Control Unit . The Haser may include one or more HotHeads a Tilt Pan device environment monitoring sensors a digital processor network adaptors power supplies and remote control capability. The Rover may include a thermal store unit TSU a battery unit BU a power supply a digital processor a robotic platform unit RPU range detection and other mobility sensors network adaptors and remote control capability. The TSU may be a heating system or a cooling system . The control unit CU may include digital video cameras stereo microphones an infrared IR pattern projector and remote control capability.

A further embodiment of the software architecture of the present invention is shown in . In this embodiment one digital processor in the installation of multiple devices is elected as the controller and this unit determines the actions of the other devices. All digital processors in the installation are contemplated to be available for processing task requests from all other processors. Whenever possible tasks are executed locally. Other tasks are assigned and scheduled by the controller . Load balancing is also done by the controller . Each processor has its own bootloader and simpler process monitor . Background processes daemons run continuously. Daemons contemplated include the Object tracker updating the system 2D and 3D maps broadcasting the devices capabilities electing and re electing system controllers. The object tracker daemon uses sensory inputs e.g. video camera to perform feature detection and update the locations of objects of interest adding this information to its history for logging or adaptive learning of behavioral patterns of the objects among other uses. Objects of interest are typically humans which are identified using detection algorithms for motion face body and torso detection among others. The tracker then takes action such as heating the environment with an Effector such as an EMU or moving a tilt pan tray or moving a robot platform RPU .

The invention has been described in detail with particular reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention.

