---

title: Method and apparatus for determining a geo-location correction-offset
abstract: An approach is provided to process communication information for determining a possible correction-offset to location information of a user. A location verification platform may process and/or facilitate a processing of communication information associated with at least one user device. The location verification platform may also determine a current geo-location of the at least one user device based, at least in part, on the communication information. Further, the location verification platform may determine an accuracy of the current geo-location based, at least in part, on a comparison of the current geo-location with contextual location information associated with the current geo-location. Furthermore, the location verification platform may determine a correction-offset to the current geo-location based, at least in part, on an accuracy threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426769&OS=09426769&RS=09426769
owner: HERE GLOBAL B.V.
number: 09426769
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20131129
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been providing location based services e.g. via mobile phone tablets in vehicle systems etc. associated with different geo locations and points of interest POIs that users may be at may be interested in may be communicating about or the like. For example a digital map on a smart phone may illustrate a view of the user s current location and POIs while providing information about or navigation directions to that POI. In another scenario service providers may track the user s location and provide updates to the user s location based on the location information determined from the user device. However in certain situations location information of the user determined from the user device may not be accurate or may not be indicative of the user s current location. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to determining accurate current location information of users.

Therefore there is a need for an approach to efficiently and accurately process communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device.

According to one embodiment a method comprises processing and or facilitate a processing of communication information associated with at least one user device. The method also comprises determining a current geo location of the at least one user device based at least in part on the communication information. Further the method comprises determining an accuracy of the current geo location based at least in part on a comparison of the current geo location with contextual location information associated with the current geo location. Additionally the method comprises determining a correction offset to the current geo location based at least in part on an accuracy threshold.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of communication information associated with at least one user device. The apparatus is also caused to determine a current geo location of the at least one user device based at least in part on the communication information. Further the apparatus is caused to determine an accuracy of the current geo location based at least in part on a comparison of the current geo location with contextual location information associated with the current geo location. Additionally the apparatus is caused to determine a correction offset to the current geo location based at least in part on an accuracy threshold.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part the apparatus to process and or facilitate a processing of communication information associated with at least one user device. The apparatus is also caused to determine a current geo location of the at least one user device based at least in part on the communication information. Further the apparatus is caused to determine an accuracy of the current geo location based at least in part on a comparison of the current geo location with contextual location information associated with the current geo location. Additionally the apparatus is caused to determine a correction offset to the current geo location based at least in part on an accuracy threshold.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for processing and or facilitate a processing of communication information associated with at least one user device. The apparatus also comprises means for determining a current geo location of the at least one user device based at least in part on the communication information. Further the apparatus comprises means for determining an accuracy of the current geo location based at least in part on a comparison of the current geo location with contextual location information associated with the current geo location. Additionally the apparatus comprises means for determining a correction offset to the current geo location based at least in part on an accuracy threshold.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims and .

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program to efficiently and accurately process communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

However there are situation when the location information may not be accurate or may not be available at all which may be due to a variety of factors. Some technologies may be sensitive to signal interference in urban canyons e.g. many large tall buildings or require line of sight connectivity to access points or satellites where a user device may not be able to accurately acquire or transmit its location information due to an interference in the signaling between the user device and source of the location information. Additionally a user may post upload a content item associated with a certain POI sometime after the user has moved away from the location of that POI. For example the user may send a message including a digital image of the POI Statue of Liberty to a friend indicating that the user is visiting the POI however the user may be at a different location e.g. in New York City than the location of the POI by the time he is initiating the message. Therefore there is a need for efficient and accurate processing of communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to efficiently and accurately process communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device. More specifically the system may process and utilize communication information transmitted by a user device to determine geo location of the user device. In various scenarios the communication information may be initiated by a user or by the user device. For example the user may post a message e.g. including media or text to one or more social network sites or the user device may initiate a predetermined communication signaling e.g. communication channel signals with one or more service providers.

In one embodiment content of a communication message from a user device may be processed to determine location information possible POIs or the like which may be included in metadata associated with the content. For example a digital image file may include the location information where the image was captured received created or the like. In one embodiment communication information from a user device may be received by one service provider and then shared with one or more other service providers that may process and utilize the communication information. For example a communications service provider may receive a message from a user device intended for a certain recipient and then according to a user agreement the service provider may provide that message to second service provider for example so that the second service provider may provide location tracking or location correction services.

In one embodiment the location information associated with the user device may be determined from probe data which for instance may include geo location information e.g. geographic coordinates heading speed etc. recorded by the user device and transmitted to the system . In some cases the probe data is collected from user devices that have agreed to or opted into a probe data collection program offered by one or more service providers. In some embodiments the system may obtain the location information via other means such as network triangulation or usage. For example the system can determine the number of devices connected to a WiFi network with a known location or the number of devices in a communication cell of a cellular network. In one embodiment various user generated content items may include postings or communications exchanged within one or more social networks where the content and the related information may then be parsed or mined to determine whether they are related to or mention specific POIs events regions etc. which may then be utilized to determine additional location information associated with a user device.

In certain scenarios the system may determine that the location information determined from communication information of a user device does not match the current actual location of the user device. For example content of a communication message may suggest that the user device is located at a certain geo location e.g. a certain City Center however location information received from the user device e.g. GPS coordinates may indicate that the user device s geo location is different than what is suggested in the communication message. In one embodiment the system may determine a disparity between current actual location of a user device and the location information determined from communication information received from the user device and then determine a correction offset.

In one scenario the system may have access to contextual location information indicating that location information received from user devices in a certain geo location area may be erroneous which may be due to poor signaling inaccurate location information no location information or the like. In one embodiment the system may determine a predefined correction offset parameters e.g. GPS coordinates or a correction offset function which may be utilized to determine a more precise location information of the user device. In one example contextual location information associated with a certain city center area may indicate that location information received from user devices located in the city center area may include one or more parameters that are erroneous e.g. one block off in a westerly direction .

In one embodiment the system may determine a correction offset function which may be used to determine a corrected location information of a user device wherein the function may be utilized by one or more elements of the system . For example a correction offset function may be utilized by a user device to determine a corrected location of the user device.

In one embodiment the system may process and or facilitate a processing of communication information associated with at least one user device. In various scenarios the communication information may be based on a phone call a message a transfer of content user device information user information or the like which may be initiated by a user of the user device or one or more applications modules at the user device. For example the communication information may be based on a user uploading a media file or a message to a social network site. In various embodiments the communication information includes active passive direct indirect or a combination thereof communication information originating at least in part from the at least one user device. In one scenario active communication information may be included in a communication session e.g. a phone call a content upload or download etc. initiated by a user or a user device where the communication may be with another user or one or more service providers in the system . In another scenario passive communication information may be included in a communication session message initiated by the user or the user device where the information is transmitted or received in the background by one or more applications or modules of the user device. In one example a user device periodically may transmit or receive various signals associated with a communication channel utilized by the user device. In one scenario a service provider may request or receive the communication information directly from a user device and in another scenario the service provider may request or receive the communication information indirectly via one or more other service providers that may have access to the communication information of a user device.

In one embodiment the system may determine a current geo location of the at least one user device based at least in part on the communication information. In one embodiment the system may utilize one or more algorithms to parse process and analyze the communication information to determine potential location information of the user device. For example a media file may be processed to determine an included image video or audio content item that may be associated with a POI or a certain geo location which may be used to determine location information of the user device. In one example the communication information may include textual content which may be analyzed to determine any references to a POI or a certain geo location. For instance a social network post from a user device may include a picture of the Eiffel Tower in Paris France and a textual message indicating that the user is visiting the Eiffel Tower. In another example the communication information may include additional location information e.g. GPS coordinates reported by a map application at the user device.

In one embodiment the system may determine an accuracy of the current geo location based at least in part on a comparison of the current geo location with contextual location information associated with the current geo location. In one scenario the system may determine and compare the current location of a user device with contextual location information available from one or more contextual databases in order to evaluate the accuracy of the current location of the user device determined from the communication information. For instance the system may have determined that the user device is currently at a certain geo location and then that certain location information may be compared to contextual location information in one or more contextual databases to ascertain if there are any known issues with location information associated with that certain geo location. In one instance a contextual database may include information about a given geo location or area e.g. known POIs GPS coordinates physical addresses known errors in determining or reporting location information of devices and the like. In one embodiment location information determined from the communication information may be compared to other location information included in the communication information. In one scenario the system may have detected an image or text in a communication information which may be associated with a certain POI and based on that POI a current geo location is determined for the user device. However actual location information e.g. GPS coordinates cellular tower information etc. from the user device may indicate that the user device is at a different location than the one the system has determined based on the POI location information. For example a user may post a message to a social network site including a picture that the user is visiting the Metropolitan Museum of Arts in New York City however the user may be posting that message when he is already at a different location and is away from the Museum s location. In this case the location information determined from the message e.g. the Museum location would be different than the actual location information provided by the user device e.g. GPS coordinates . In one embodiment the contextual location information includes one or more validated contextual location information data information items associated with one or more points of interest associated with the current geo location a corrected current geo location or a combination thereof. For example the contextual location information may be validated based on information available from a plurality of user devices associated with a certain geo location or the contextual location information may be validated by one or more service providers that may collect and verify the contextual location information available in various databases.

In one embodiment the system may determine a correction offset to the current geo location based at least in part on an accuracy threshold. In one embodiment an accuracy threshold may indicate a geographical area in relation to a current location of a user device wherein a correction offset to the current location of the user device should be determined. For example a user profile at a user device or at a service provider may indicate that a correction offset should be determined calculated if the location information of the user device indicates an error of more than 200 meters. In various embodiments the accuracy threshold may be determined based on geographical area of the user device activity of the user time of day resources status at the user device confidence level of location contextual location information available in one or more databases or the like.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part a transmission of the correction offset to the at least one user device one or more databases or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a correction offset may be transmitted to a user device wherein one or more applications or modules at the user device may utilize the correction offset to determine a corrected current geo location for the user device. In one embodiment the correction offset for a particular geo location may be transmitted to one or more databases wherein contextual location information of that particular geo location may be corrected for example for future use by one or more service providers or one or more user devices.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part a transmission of the correction offset to the at least one user device based at least in part on the current geo location. In one embodiment a correction offset may be transmitted to a user device if the user device is near or is at a certain geo location. For instance a user profile or a user device configuration may indicate that a correction offset should be sent to the user device only when the user device is at a certain geo location. In one scenario a user may wish to receive a location correction offset when at a different area than his home area since he may be unfamiliar with the area and require accurate location information.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part an update to the current geo location based at least in part on one or more correction offsets in one or more data lists. In one embodiment a service provider may determine that there are one or more correction offsets associated with a current geo location of a user device wherein the correction offsets may be analyzed and an update may be transmitted to the user device. For example a service provider may determine a current geo location of the user device and then further determine that there are various correction offsets available in one or more databases or data lists. In one embodiment a service provider may determine to select from the one or more correction offsets a best correction offset for transmission to a user device. For example the service provider may select a correction offset from a database or a data list that has been validated or that has a high confidence level of accuracy.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part a presentation of a corrected current geo location at the at least one user device. In one scenario a service provider may cause one or more applications or modules at a user device to present a corrected current geo location at a user device wherein the corrected current geo location may be based on a correction offset determined from one or more databases or data lists. For example after determining a correction offset for a current geo location of a user device the service provider may transmit one or more commands to an application at the user device for presenting the corrected current geo location of the user device.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part a generation of at least one correction offset function. In one embodiment a service provider may utilize one or more algorithms to generate a correction offset function which may be utilized to determine a corrected geo location of a user device. For example the correction offset function may include one or more parameters one or more calculations one or more instructions or the like for determining a corrected geo location.

In one embodiment the system may cause at least in part a determination of a corrected current geo location based at least in part on the current geo location and the correction offset function. In one scenario a service provider may cause one or more applications or modules at a user device to utilize execute a correction offset function for determining a corrected current geo location of the user device. For example a map application at a user device may utilize the correction offset function to determine a corrected current geo location of the user device. In one scenario a service provider may cause one or more databases one or more other service providers one or more data lists or the like to utilize the correction offset function for determining a corrected geo location associated with one or more geo locations therein.

In one embodiment the system may determine a probability factor for the correction offset based at least in part on the data communication information associated with a plurality of other user devices the accuracy threshold or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a service provider may process or analyze communication information available from other user devices for determining a probability that a correction offset associated with a certain geo location may be correct. For instance the service provider may determine that a database includes location information from a plurality of user devices indicating a high error rate in location information at a certain geo location wherein the probability factor can be calculated to indicate a likelihood that the correction offset associated with that certain geo location a substantially accurate. In one embodiment the probability factor may be determined based on the accuracy threshold. For example a high accuracy threshold associated with a certain geo location may yield a lower probability factor since the high accuracy threshold would indicate a greater distance away from the geo location associated with the correction offset and therefore may not be as accurate.

In one embodiment the system may determine the current geo location of the at least one user device based at least in part on a user profile information the current geo location a service provider configuration or a combination thereof. In various scenarios a user may wish to determine when where how under what conditions etc. one or more service providers may determine the current geo location of the user device. For example the current geo location of the user device may be determined based on a user profile e.g. a private public etc. a user device configuration e.g. personal device business device etc. the current geo location of the user device e.g. at work at home traveling at a city center at school etc. Additionally or alternatively a service provider may utilize one or more configurations associated with communication information of its users for determining the current geo location of a user device. Further a service provider may utilize one or more configurations to indicate to other service providers whether a current geo location of a user device may be determined.

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including social networking web browser content sharing multimedia applications augmented reality AR virtual reality VR UI map application web client etc. In various embodiments the applications may be utilized to capture process submit analyze append tag etc. various media or communication messaging items. For example an application on a UE may be used to create and share a digital image and any related information.

Additionally the applications may facilitate communication with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers one or more GPS satellites also collectively referred to as GPS satellites a location verification platform a contextual location database and or with other components of the system directly and or via communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include data content collection modules also collectively referred to as DC module for determining and or collecting data and or content associated with the UEs one or more users of the UEs applications one or more content items e.g. multimedia content and the like. In addition the UEs can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing and or forwarding one or more information items to other components of the system .

In various scenarios the applications and or the DC module may facilitate tagging of various elements present in a media item and or may facilitate creating or associating metadata with the media item.

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more service databases also collectively referred to as service database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include one or more service providers offering one or more services for example online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging content sharing media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like. In one embodiment a service provider may receive and process a request input from a user for determining status information associated with one or more elements present in one or more media items. In one embodiment the service provider may utilize various algorithms software applications modules hardware firmware and the like for processing recognizing detecting comparing and the like content items e.g. media items that may be associated with a user a user device or the like.

In one embodiment the content providers may include and or have access to one or more content database also collectively referred to as content database which may store include and or have access to various content items. For example the content providers may store content items e.g. at the content database provided by various users various service providers crowd sourced content and the like. Further the service providers and or the content providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users applications services content etc. may be shared accessed and or processed.

In various embodiments the service providers and or the content providers may include and or have access to information associated with people POIs objects etc. For example the information may be available from various public private or government controlled databases which may be accessed via the communication network .

In one embodiment the location verification platform may process and utilize various communication information associated with a UE to determine the UE location and further determine if that location information may be subject to a correction offset. In one embodiment the location verification platform may compare location information of a UE with contextual location information available in the contextual location database for determining a correction offset and or a correction offset function which may be utilized to determine and estimate a corrected location of the UE .

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver loud speakers display monitors radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device wrist watch or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

In one embodiment the UE includes a location module sensor that can determine the UE location e.g. a user s location . The UE location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use the one or more satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. LAN WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UEs the service providers the content providers the location verification platform and the contextual location database may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs the service providers and the location verification platform may interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. It is also noted that the role of a client and a server is not fixed in some situations a device may act both as a client and a server which may be done simultaneously and or the device may alternate between these roles.

The location module can determine a user s location for example via location information associated with a UE . The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . Location coordinates e.g. GPS coordinates can give finer detail as to the location of the UE when media is captured. In one embodiment GPS coordinates are stored as context information in the memory module and are available to the context processing module the DC module the service providers and or to other entities of the system e.g. via the communication interface . Moreover in certain embodiments the GPS coordinates can include an altitude to provide a height. In other embodiments the altitude can be determined using another type of altimeter. In certain embodiments the location module can be a means for determining a location of the UE an image or used to associate an object in view with a location.

The magnetometer module can be used in finding horizontal orientation of the UE . A magnetometer is an instrument that can measure the strength and or direction of a magnetic field. Using the same approach as a compass the magnetometer is capable of determining the direction of a UE using the magnetic field of the Earth. The front of a media capture device e.g. a camera can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Thus if the magnetic field points north compared to the reference point the angle the UE reference point is from the magnetic field is known. Simple calculations can be made to determine the direction of the UE . In one embodiment horizontal directional data obtained from a magnetometer can be stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or transmitted via the communication interface to one or more entities of the system .

The accelerometer module can be used to determine vertical orientation of the UE . An accelerometer is an instrument that can measure acceleration. Using a three axis accelerometer with axes X Y and Z provides the acceleration in three directions with known angles. Once again the front of a media capture device can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Because the acceleration due to gravity is known when a UE is stationary the accelerometer module can determine the angle the UE is pointed as compared to Earth s gravity. In certain embodiments the magnetometer module and accelerometer module can be means for ascertaining a perspective of a user. This perspective information may be stored in the memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In various embodiments the sensors module can process sensor data from various sensors e.g. GPS accelerometer gyroscope thermometer etc. to determine environmental e.g. atmospheric conditions surrounding the UE user mood e.g. hungry angry tired etc. location information and various other information from a range sensors that may be available on one or more devices. For example the sensors module may detect conditions including humidity temperature geo location biometric data of the user etc. Once again this information can be stored in the memory module and sent to the context processing module and or to other entities of the system . In certain embodiments information collected from the DC collection module can be retrieved by the runtime module and stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In one embodiment the multimedia module may be utilized to capture various media items for example graphical encoded data representations images video audio and the like wherein the captured media may be submitted to one or more modules and applications of the UE a service provider and or a content provider for further processing storage sharing and the like. For example a captured image of a graphical encoded data representations may be submitted to a service provider and or the context processing module for analysis and or decoding. In one embodiment the multimedia module may also be utilized to process various media items for determining location information associated with a media content item. For example a media item may be a picture that may include images of people POIs objects buildings etc. In one embodiment the multimedia module may use one or more image processing algorithms for processing a media item and for identifying one or more elements present into media item. For example the media item may be an audio recording which may include various sounds of people objects or the surroundings with the media item were recorded.

In various embodiments the runtime module may cause one or more modules components of a UE to associate one or more available data items with one or more content items at a UE . For example date time location and user information associated with a device at a particular time may be associated e.g. as metadata with a content consumption sessions.

The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface a microphone etc. Input can be via one or more methods such as voice input textual input typed input typed touch screen input other touch enabled input etc.

In one embodiment the communication interface can be used to communicate with one or more entities of the system . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the UE can send context information associated with the UE to the service providers content providers and or to other entities of the system .

The context processing module may be utilized in determining context information from the DC module and or applications executing on the runtime module . This information may be caused to be transmitted via the communication interface to the service providers and or to other entities of the system . The context processing module may additionally be utilized as a means for determining information related to the user an instance of data a value a content item an object a subject and the like. In certain embodiments the context processing module can infer higher level context information from the context data such as favorite locations significant places common activities interests in products and services POIs at various geo locations etc.

The control logic interacts with the location determination module to determine location information or location points associated with one or more UEs . In one embodiment the location determination module applies a deterministic asynchronous finite state detection algorithm to communication information associated with one or more UEs including but not limited to data of Cell ID GPS accelerometer W LAN communication messages content items etc. to determine location information associated with the UEs and or location information included or embedded in a content item communicated from the UEs to one or more entities e.g. another UE a social network site etc. of the system . In one embodiment the location determination module continuously or periodically may monitor communication information of a UE for determining its location information.

In one embodiment the information analysis module may process and analyze various communication information items associated with a UE . In various scenarios the communication information may be initiated by a user or by the user device. For example the user may post a message e.g. including media or text to one or more social network sites or the user device may initiate a predetermined communication signaling e.g. communication channel signals with one or more service providers. In one embodiment content of a communication message from a user device may be processed to determine location information possible POIs or the like which may be included in metadata associated with the content. For example a digital image file may include the location information where the image was captured received created or the like. In one embodiment communication information from a user device may be received by one service provider and then shared with one or more other service providers that may process and utilize the communication information. For example a communications service provider may receive a message from a user device intended for a certain recipient and then according to a user agreement the service provider may provide that message to second service provider for example so that the second service provider may provide location tracking or location correction services. In one embodiment the information analysis module may parse the communication information and any content therein to identify references to POIs or location based references. In one embodiment one or more communications postings in the communication information e.g. social network services may be processed to determine POI or location related information. In one example a parsing of the communications may be based on a linguistic analysis of the data e.g. map POI location based and location related keywords and phrases . For example one communication message with a social network services may be related to a user visiting a specific POI and another communication may indicate that the user is planning a gathering with friends near a POI.

In one embodiment the verification module may be used to compare the location information determined from the communication information with relevant contextual location information available in one or more databases. In one scenario the contextual location information in the databases may be based on information reported by other user devices that were at or near the determined location. In one embodiment the databases may include information from one or more contextual location information collection and verification service providers. For example the database may include data from a mapping service provider. In one embodiment a comparison of the determined location information of UE may indicate that the determined location may be inaccurate and may be associated with a known correction offset. For example the inaccuracy may be due to poor communication signaling from or to the UE at its current location. In one embodiment the determined location information may include a reference to a POI which may be compared to location information of the POI and determine if the determined location information of the UE is substantially accurate or would it be subject to a possible correction.

Further the update module may interact with the verification module to determine a possible update to location information of a UE . In one embodiment the update module may determine one or more parameters e.g. GPS coordinates for a correction offset associated with location information of a UE and or location information of a geo location area determined from the location information. In one embodiment the update module may determine a correction offset based on a threshold criteria including a correctness probability a level of confidence a degree of trust a rating or the like associated with the location information. In one embodiment if a correction offset is considered accurate and valid then it may be propagated to one or more UEs associated with the location one or more service providers or one or more location information databases. In addition or alternatively the update module may determine an algorithmic function that may be transmitted to and used by a UE or a service provider for determining a correction offset associated with a geo location. For example a correction offset function may be associated with a particular geo location which may be known to have a certain error in location information determined from various UEs located near or at that geo location.

The communication module can be used to communicate with one or more entities of the system . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the location verification platform can receive or transmit location information communication information correction offsets correction offset functions or the like from and to one or more entities of the system .

The process may begin at step of the where the location verification platform may process and or facilitate a processing of communication information associated with at least one user device. In various scenarios the communication information may be based on a phone call a message a transfer of content user device information user information or the like which may be initiated by a user of the user device or one or more applications modules at the user device. For example the communication information may be based on a user uploading a media file or a message to a social network site. In various embodiments the communication information includes active passive direct indirect or a combination thereof communication information originating at least in part from the at least one user device. In one scenario active communication information may be included in a communication session e.g. a phone call a content upload or download etc. initiated by a user or a user device where the communication may be with another user or one or more service providers in the system . In another scenario passive communication information may be included in a communication session message initiated by the user or the user device where the information is transmitted or received in the background by one or more applications or modules of the user device. In one example a user device periodically may transmit or receive various signals associated with a communication channel utilized by the user device. In one scenario a service provider may request or receive the communication information directly from a user device and in another scenario the service provider may request or receive the communication information indirectly via one or more other service providers that may have access to the communication information of a user device.

In step the location verification platform may determine a current geo location of the at least one user device based at least in part on the communication information. In one embodiment the system may utilize one or more algorithms to parse process and analyze the communication information to determine potential location information of the user device. For example a media file may be processed to determine an included image video or audio content item that may be associated with a POI or a certain geo location which may be used to determine location information of the user device. In one example the communication information may include textual content which may be analyzed to determine any references to a POI or a certain geo location. For instance a social network post from a user device may include a picture of the Eiffel Tower in Paris France and a textual message indicating that the user is visiting the Eiffel Tower. In another example the communication information may include additional location information e.g. GPS coordinates reported by a map application at the user device.

In step the location verification platform may determine an accuracy of the current geo location based at least in part on a comparison of the current geo location with contextual location information associated with the current geo location. In one scenario the system may determine and compare the current location of a user device with contextual location information available from one or more contextual databases in order to evaluate the accuracy of the current location of the user device determined from the communication information. For instance the system may have determined that the user device is currently at a certain geo location and then that certain location information may be compared to contextual location information in one or more contextual databases to ascertain if there are any known issues with location information associated with that certain geo location. In one instance a contextual database may include information about a given geo location or area e.g. known POIs GPS coordinates address known errors in determining or reporting location information of devices and the like. In one embodiment location information determined from the communication information may be compared to other location information included in the communication information. In one scenario the system may have detected an image or text in a communication information which may be associated with a certain POI and based on that POI a current geo location is determined for the user device. However actual location information e.g. GPS coordinates cellular tower information etc. from the user device may indicate that the user device is at a different location than the one the system has determined based on the POI location information. For example a user may post a message to a social network site including a picture that the user is visiting the Metropolitan Museum of Arts in New York City however the user may be posting that message when he is already at a different location and is away from the Museum s location. In this case the location information determined from the message e.g. the Museum location would be different than the actual location information provided by the user device e.g. GPS coordinates . In one embodiment the contextual location information includes one or more validated data information items associated with one or more points of interest associated with the current geo location a corrected current geo location or a combination thereof. For example the contextual location information may be validated based on information available from a plurality of user devices associated with a certain geo location or the contextual location information may be validated by one or more service providers that may collect and verify the contextual location information available in various databases.

In step the location verification platform may determine a correction offset to the current geo location based at least in part on an accuracy threshold. In one embodiment an accuracy threshold may indicate a geographical area in relation to a current location of a user device wherein a correction offset to the current location of the user device should be determined. For example a user profile at a user device or at a service provider may indicate that a correction offset should be determined calculated if the location information of the user device indicates an error of more than 200 meters. In various embodiments the accuracy threshold may be determined based on geographical area of the user device activity of the user time of day resources status at the user device confidence level of location contextual location information available in one or more databases or the like.

The process may begin at step of the where the location verification platform cause at least in part a transmission of the correction offset to the at least one user device one or more databases or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a correction offset may be transmitted to a user device wherein one or more applications or modules at the user device may utilize the correction offset to determine a corrected current geo location for the user device. In one embodiment the correction offset for a particular geo location may be transmitted to one or more databases wherein contextual location information of that particular geo location may be corrected for example for future use by one or more service providers or one or more user devices.

In step the location verification platform may cause at least in part a transmission of the correction offset to the at least one user device based at least in part on the current geo location. In one embodiment a correction offset may be transmitted to a user device if the user device is near or is at a certain geo location. For instance a user profile or a user device configuration may indicate that a correction offset should be sent to the user device only when the user device is at a certain geo location. In one scenario a user may wish to receive a location correction offset when at a different area than his home area since he may be unfamiliar with the area and require accurate location information.

In step the location verification platform may cause at least in part an update to the current geo location based at least in part on one or more correction offsets in one or more data lists. In one embodiment a service provider may determine that there are one or more correction offsets associated with a current geo location of a user device wherein the correction offsets may be analyzed and an update may be transmitted to the user device. For example a service provider may determine a current geo location of the user device and then further determine that there are various correction offsets available in one or more databases or data lists. In one embodiment a service provider may determine to select from the one or more correction offsets a best correction offset for transmission to a user device. For example the service provider may select a correction offset from a database or a data list that has been validated or that has a high confidence level of accuracy.

In step the location verification platform may cause at least in part a presentation of a corrected current geo location at the at least one user device. In one scenario a service provider may cause one or more applications or modules at a user device to present a corrected current geo location at a user device wherein the corrected current geo location may be based on a correction offset determined from one or more databases or data lists. For example after determining a correction offset for a current geo location of a user device the service provider may transmit one or more commands to an application at the user device for presenting the corrected current geo location of the user device.

In step the location verification platform may cause at least in part a generation of at least one correction offset function. In one embodiment a service provider may utilize one or more algorithms to generate a correction offset function which may be utilized to determine a corrected geo location of a user device. For example the correction offset function may include one or more parameters one or more calculations one or more instructions or the like for determining a corrected geo location.

In step the location verification platform may cause at least in part a determination of a corrected current geo location based at least in part on the current geo location and the correction offset function. In one scenario a service provider may cause one or more applications or modules at a user device to utilize execute a correction offset function for determining a corrected current geo location of the user device. For example a map application at a user device may utilize the correction offset function to determine a corrected current geo location of the user device. In one scenario a service provider may cause one or more databases one or more other service providers one or more data lists or the like to utilize the correction offset function for determining a corrected geo location associated with one or more geo locations therein.

The process may begin at step of the where the location verification platform may determine a probability factor for the correction offset based at least in part on the data communication information associated with a plurality of other user devices the accuracy threshold or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a service provider may process or analyze communication information available from other user devices for determining a probability that a correction offset associated with a certain geo location may be correct. For instance the service provider may determine that a database includes location information from a plurality of user devices indicating a high error rate in location information at a certain geo location wherein the probability factor can be calculated to indicate a likelihood that the correction offset associated with that certain geo location a substantially accurate. In one embodiment the probability factor may be determined based on the accuracy threshold. For example a high accuracy threshold associated with a certain geo location may yield a lower probability factor since the high accuracy threshold would indicate a greater distance away from the geo location associated with the correction offset and therefore may not be as accurate.

In step the location verification platform may determine the current geo location of the at least one user device based at least in part on a user profile information the current geo location a service provider configuration or a combination thereof. In various scenarios a user may wish to determine when where how under what conditions etc. one or more service providers may determine the current geo location of the user device. For example the current geo location of the user device may be determined based on a user profile e.g. a private public etc. a user device configuration e.g. personal device business device etc. the current geo location of the user device e.g. at work at home traveling at a city center at school etc. Additionally or alternatively a service provider may utilize one or more configurations associated with communication information of its users for determining the current geo location of a user device. Further a service provider may utilize one or more configurations to indicate to other service providers whether a current geo location of a user device may be determined.

In one scenario a communication from a UE may include a user message which may be intended for a posting onto one or more social network sites for example to a social network ABC and or may be intended for one or more other users. In one embodiment the location verification platform may process and analyze the user message and determine that it includes a media content item and or a textual message which may include one or more information items and . In one embodiment the location verification platform may process the media content item to determine one or more possibly included POIs. In one scenario the processing may include an image detection analysis to determine the one or more POIs. In this example the media item includes an image of the U.S. Statue of Liberty National Monument in New York. In one embodiment the location verification platform may process the textual message to determine one or more information items included therein. In one example the textual message may indicate information about a POI for example the statue of liberty in message portion wherein the location verification platform may utilize that information to determine a location information of the user device that initiated the communication of the user message . Additionally the user message may include metadata which may indicate location information associated with the user message or more portions of the user message . For example the metadata may indicate that the message was posted from location XYZ in Manhattan N.Y. In one embodiment the location verification platform may compare the location information determined from the user message with a current location information of the user device. In one example location information of the user device may substantially match the location information of the POI determined from the user message . In various scenarios the current location information of the user device may or may not match location information of the POI determined by the location verification platform . For example the user posting the message may have posted the message from the location of the Statue of Liberty or as in sometime later from a location in Manhattan N.Y. In one scenario also depicts an urban area where location information from user devices as well as may include inaccurate or incomplete location information due to the high density of the buildings which may present interference with communication signals for determining location information or reporting location information associated with the user devices.

In one embodiment the location verification platform may determine a correction offset for location information of the user device to indicate that the user message although associated with the POI Statue of Liberty was indeed posted from a location in Manhattan N.Y. In one scenario the correction offset may cause an update to a presentation of the location of the UE indicative of location . In various scenarios a corrected current location information of the UE may be presented and or shared with one or more other users one or more service providers one or more social network sites or the like. In one embodiment the communication message and or one or more associated communication information items may be shared with one or more other service providers which may determine the current location information the correction offset or the like.

In the UE may determine and present location of the UE on a map application . In one embodiment the location verification platform may determine a correction offset to the location and cause a presentation of the corrected current location of the UE . For example the corrected current location may be 200 meters away from the location . In various scenarios the discrepancy between the locations and may be due to incomplete or erroneous location information reported by the UE or determined by the location verification platform . In one embodiment the corrected current location may be presented at the UE based on an accuracy threshold a user profile the location of the UE a service provider configuration or the like. For example if the correction offset is less than 100 meters then may not be presented at or communicated to the UE .

The processes described herein to efficiently and accurately process communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to efficiently and accurately process communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for efficient and accurate processing of communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for efficient and accurate processing of communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for efficient and accurate processing communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to efficiently and accurately process communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of efficiently and accurately process communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to efficiently and accurately process communication information from a user device for determining a possible correction offset to location information of the user device. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

