---

title: Communication between retailer and customer
abstract: Communication between a retailer and a customer is disclosed. A payment card and a communication identifier addressing a wireless transceiver of a mobile apparatus are registered to an electronic service. The mobile apparatus receives, with the wireless transceiver, a plurality of packets relating to payments with the payment card of a plurality of trades of various commodities between the user and a plurality of various retailers, from the electronic service, extracts from the received plurality of the packets transaction information relating to the payments and supplementary information, and communicates, with a user interface, the extracted transaction information and the supplementary information to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09038895&OS=09038895&RS=09038895
owner: OP-PALVELUT OY
number: 09038895
owner_city: Helsinki
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20131106
---
Due to the emerging electronic media the communication between a retailer and a customer or consumer is becoming increasingly fragmented. Further sophistication is clearly desirable in order to relieve the customer from unwanted information and in order to enable the retailer to communicate with the customer timely and precisely.

According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a mobile apparatus comprising a wireless transceiver a user interface one or more processors and one or more memories including computer program code the one or more memories and the computer program code configured to with the one or more processors cause the mobile apparatus at least to perform register with the user interface and the wireless transceiver a payment card of a user of the mobile apparatus and a communication identifier addressing the wireless transceiver and associated with the registered payment card to an electronic service receive with the wireless transceiver a plurality of packets relating to payments with the payment card of a plurality of trades of various commodities between the user and a plurality of various retailers from the electronic service extract from the received plurality of the packets transaction information relating to the payments and supplementary information and communicate with the user interface the extracted transaction information and the supplementary information to the user.

According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a computing resource comprising a communication interface a memory interface one or more processors and one or more memories including computer program code the one or more memories and the computer program code configured to with the one or more processors cause the computing resource at least to perform receive with the communication interface a registration of a payment card of a user of a mobile apparatus and a registration of a communication identifier addressing a wireless transceiver of the mobile apparatus and associated with the registration of the payment card from the mobile apparatus store with the memory interface the registration of the payment card and the registration of the communication identifier receive with the communication interface a plurality of transactions of the user relating to payments with the payment card of a plurality of trades of commodities between the user and a plurality of various retailers generate a plurality of packets relating to the payments with the payment card formed on the basis of the received plurality of the transactions insert transaction information relating to the payments and supplementary information into the plurality of the packets and transmit with the communication interface the plurality of the packets to the mobile apparatus addressed with the communication identifier.

The invention may provide at least one of the following advantages bandwidth of electronic media is saved as the communication is more timely and precise natural resources are saved as unnecessary paper documents need not be printed and mailed data security is increased as the communication is in electronic format storage is more safe as the communicated electronic documents are electronically stored user interface is more compact and easy to use as the customer has one interface towards numerous retailers.

The following embodiments are only examples. Although the specification may refer to an embodiment in several locations this does not necessarily mean that each such reference is to the same embodiment s or that the feature only applies to a single embodiment. Single features of different embodiments may also be combined to provide other embodiments. Furthermore words comprising and including should be understood as not limiting the described embodiments to consist of only those features that have been mentioned and such embodiments may contain also features structures that have not been specifically mentioned.

It should be noted that while Figures illustrate various embodiments of apparatuses they are simplified block diagrams that only show some structures and functional entities. The connections shown in these Figures are logical connections the actual physical connections may be different. Interfaces between the various elements may be implemented with suitable interface technologies such as a message interface a method interface a sub routine call interface a block interface or any hardware software means enabling communication between functional sub units. It is apparent to a person skilled in the art that the described apparatuses may also comprise other functions and structures. It should be appreciated that details of some functions structures and the protocols used for communication are irrelevant to the actual invention. Therefore they need not be discussed in more detail here. Although the apparatuses have been depicted as separate single entities different parts may be implemented in one or more physical or logical entities.

The customer may also be known as a client buyer purchaser or consumer. The retailer may also be known as a seller vendor or supplier although the term retail here highlights the fact that the trade is business to consumer type rather than the business to business type. The retailer may operate in a shop such as a store market or shopping mall for example but the retailer may also operate without a shop such as in an online environment realizing electronic commerce with electronic transactions and mail order.

A trade between the customer and the retailer transfers the ownership of the commodity from the retailer to the customer and the retailer gets a payment in exchange. The retailer may issue a receipt for the financial transaction.

The commodity is any marketable item produced to satisfy wants or needs and the commodity comprises consumer goods and services.

The payment card may be used by the cardholder and accepted by the retailer to make payments for the trade. In an example embodiment the payment card may be a credit card or a debit or bank card or any other suitable payment medium for example. In an example embodiment the payment card may be implemented as a magnetic stripe card smart card or a proximity card or with any other suitable technology for example.

In an example embodiment the point of sale system may be a simple point of sale terminal or it may comprise a number of different hardware and software components. The point of sale system may implement an electronic cash register an inventory system a customer relationship management system etc.

In an example embodiment the mobile apparatus is a portable electronic communication apparatus. A non exhaustive list of the types of the mobile apparatus includes a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet computer a general purpose mobile computing device. In an example embodiment the mobile apparatus is a general purpose off the shelf computing device as opposed to a purpose build proprietary equipment whereby research development costs will be lower as only the special purpose software and not the hardware needs to be designed implemented and tested. In an example embodiment of the mobile apparatus is illustrated the mobile apparatus is a smartphone or a tablet employing a multi touch display . Such devices may employ a suitable operating system such as iOS Android or Windows Phone for example.

In an example embodiment the computing resource is a part of the client server computing model that acts as distributed application which partitions tasks or workloads between the provider of a resource or service called server and the service requester called client . The computing resource is a host that is running one or more server programs which share their resources with clients . The computing resource may also operate according to the cloud computing model implementing the network based service which appears to be provided by real hardware but is in fact provided by virtual hardware simulated by software running on one or more real computers. Naturally besides these example embodiments of the computing resource other feasible computing architectures may be utilized as well to implement the hardware and software of the computing resource . Consequently besides operating according to the client server architecture push technology may be utilized as well. In push technology the request for a transaction is initiated by the computing resource whereas with the pull technology the request for the information is initiated by the client .

Next let us study illustrating example embodiments of the mobile apparatus and the computing resource .

The mobile apparatus comprises a wireless transceiver a user interface one or more processors and one or more memories including computer program code .

In an example embodiment the wireless transceiver may be interoperable with various wireless standard non standard proprietary communication networks such as any mobile phone network regardless of the generation such as 2G 3G 4G beyond 4G etc. such as GSM Global System for Mobile Communications GPRS General Packet Radio Service EGPRS Enhanced GPRS WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access UMTS Universal Mobile Telephone System 3GPP The 3rd Generation Partnership Project IMT International Mobile Telecommunication LTE Long Term Evolution LTE A LTE Advanced and other radio systems in their present forms and or in their evolution forms such as WLAN Wireless Local Area Network based on IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.11 standard or its evolution versions IEEE 802.11 ac etc. WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or Wi Fi for example.

In an example embodiment the wireless transceiver while communicating with a mobile phone network may require a subscriber identity module SIM which may be an integrated circuit storing subscriber data which is network specific information used to authenticate and identify subscribers on the cellular network. The subscriber identity module may be embedded into a removable SIM card on a mini SIM card for example. Furthermore the mobile apparatus may include a SIM card reader for example. Besides being implemented on a SIM card the subscriber identity module may be implemented with other techniques as well such as a virtual embedded SIM.

In an example embodiment the user interface implements the exchange of graphical textual and auditory information with the customer . The user interface may be realized with various techniques such as a display means for producing sound a keyboard and or a keypad for example. The display may be a liquid crystal display for example but it may also be implemented by any appropriate technique such as with an active matrix organic light emitting diode. The display may also incorporate other user interaction means such as touch input or haptic feedback i.e. the display may be a touch screen. The means for producing sound may be a loudspeaker or a simpler means for producing beeps or other sound signals. The keyboard keypad may comprise a complete QWERTY keyboard a mere numeric keypad or only a few push buttons and or rotary buttons. In addition the user interface may comprise other user interface components for example various means for focusing a cursor mouse track ball arrow keys touch sensitive area etc. or elements enabling audio control.

Naturally the mobile apparatus may include various other parts such as a battery a camera a radio frequency identifier reader a positioning receiver but as they are not needed to further illustrate the example embodiments they will not be further described.

The computing resource comprises a communication interface a memory interface one or more processors and one or more memories including computer program code . In an example embodiment the computing resource is a computer such as a single server computer or a cluster of computers whereby the one or more processors and the one or more memories may be implemented by suitable processors even in parallel or multicore embodiments for example.

The communication interface enables communication with other parts of the system such as the communication with the mobile apparatus and the communication with the point of sale systems . The communication interface may be coupled with a communication network. The communication network may comprise a wired network such as the Internet and also a wireless system capable of communicating with the wireless transceiver of the mobile apparatus . Consequently the communication interface utilizes either a wired network interface or a radio transceiver.

The memory interface enables storage of data into a memory and it may also comprise a database interface to a database. The memory database coupled to the memory interface may reside in the computing resource or in another computer.

In an example embodiment the term processor refers to a physical device that is capable of processing data in a computer or other digital electronic device. Depending on the processing power needed the mobile apparatus and the computing resource may each comprise several processors such as parallel processors or one or more multicore processors. A non exhaustive list of implementation techniques for the processor includes but is not limited to logic components standard integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC system on a chip SoC application specific standard products ASSP microprocessors digital signal processors special purpose computer chips and field programmable gate arrays FPGA .

In an example embodiment the term memory refers to a physical device that is capable of storing the computer program code and data on a temporary or permanent basis for use in a computer or other digital electronic device. In an example embodiment the term memory refers to working memory also known as primary storage main memory or internal storage directly accessible to the processor . In an example embodiment the working memory may be implemented as a random access memory RAM such as a dynamic RAM DRAM.

Now that the basic structures of the mobile apparatus and the computing resource have been described we may proceed in describing the dynamic interaction between the two.

First of all the basic register process is performed. The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to register with the user interface and the wireless transceiver the payment card of the user of the mobile apparatus and a communication identifier addressing the wireless transceiver and associated with the registered payment card to an electronic service.

The electronic service may be implemented by the computing resource . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to receive with the communication interface a registration of the payment card of the user of the mobile apparatus and a registration of a communication identifier addressing the wireless transceiver of the mobile apparatus and associated with the registration of the payment card from the mobile apparatus and store with the memory interface the registration of the payment card and the registration of the communication identifier.

After the basic register process as the customer user his her payment card for payments information and packets flow between the system actors.

The use of the payment card for payments generates information. The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to receive with the communication interface a plurality of transactions of the user relating to payments with the payment card of a plurality of trades of commodities between the user and a plurality of various retailers and generate a plurality of packets relating to the payments with the payment card formed on the basis of the received plurality of the transactions . In an example embodiment the transactions come directly from the point of sale systems or via an intermediary such as a bank or another financial institution.

Furthermore supplementary information is tied with the transaction. The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to insert transaction information relating to the payments and supplementary information into the plurality of the packets and transmit with the communication interface the plurality of the packets to the mobile apparatus addressed with the communication identifier. Transaction information relating to the payments determines circumstances relating to the financial transaction at least one of the following for example date time of the trade location of the trade sum of the trade name of the retailer etc. In an example embodiment the use of the payment card for payments generates at least part of the transaction information . In an example embodiment the use of the mobile apparatus for payments from an account linked with the payment card generates at least part of the transaction information .

Consequently the mobile apparatus receives transaction information but enriched with the supplementary information . This combination creates a unique communication channel between the customer and a plurality of the retailers . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to receive with the wireless transceiver a plurality of packets relating to the payments with the payment card of the plurality of the trades of various commodities between the user and the plurality of the various retailers from the electronic service extract from the received plurality of the packets transaction information relating to the payments and supplementary information and communicate with the user interface the extracted transaction information and the supplementary information to the user .

Let us next study illustrating an example embodiment of the mobile apparatus . The mobile apparatus may include an electronic digital computer which may comprise a non volatile memory and a working memory as the memory the processor a system clock and an input output including the user interface and the wireless transceiver . Naturally the computer may comprise a number of other peripheral devices not illustrated here for the sake of clarity. Also the architecture of is just one example embodiment as other feasible computing architectures may be utilized as well to implement the hardware and software of the mobile apparatus . It is also to be noted that the architecture of may be applied as well changing those things which need to be changed to the implementation of the computing resource as a single computer or a cluster of computers.

In an example embodiment the system clock constantly generates a stream of electrical pulses which cause the various transferring operations within the computer to take place in an orderly manner and with specific timing.

In an example embodiment the processor may be implemented as a microprocessor implementing functions of a central processing unit CPU on an integrated circuit. The CPU is a logic machine executing the computer program code . The computer program code may be coded as a computer program using a programming language which may be a high level programming language such as C C or Java or a low level programming language such as a machine language or an assembler. There are many ways to structure the computer program code . In an example embodiment the operations of the computer program code may be divided into functional modules sub routines methods classes objects applets macros etc. depending on the software design methodology and the programming language used. In modern programming environments there are software libraries i.e. compilations of ready made functions which may be utilized by the computer program code for performing a wide variety of standard operations.

The CPU may comprise a set of registers an arithmetic logic unit ALU and a control unit CU . The control unit is controlled by the computer program code transferred to the CPU from the working memory . The working memory is directly or indirectly connected to the CPU via a memory bus including two buses an address bus and a data bus. The CPU sends a memory address indicating the desired location of data or computer program code through the address bus whereupon the CPU reads or writes the data itself from to the working memory using the data bus.

The control unit may contain a number of microinstructions for basic operations. The implementation of the microinstructions may vary depending on the CPU design. The microprocessor may also have an operating system such as a general purpose operating system which may provide the computer program code with system services. During running of the computer program code the computer program code or a part of it are transferred via the memory bus from the working memory into the control unit wherein usually a portion of the computer program code resides and controls the operation.

In an example embodiment the non volatile memory retains the stored information even when not powered. Examples of non volatile memory include read only memory ROM flash memory magnetic computer storage devices such as hard disk drives and optical discs. As is shown in the non volatile memory may store both data and the computer program code .

An example embodiment provides a computer readable medium comprising the computer program code . Said computer program code when executed on the mobile apparatus causes the mobile apparatus to perform the operations required to implement the described example embodiments. In an example embodiment the computer program code may be in source code form object code form or in some intermediate form. The computer readable medium may comprise at least the following any entity or device capable of carrying computer program code to the mobile apparatus a record medium a computer memory a read only memory an electrical carrier signal a telecommunications signal and a software distribution medium. In some jurisdictions depending on the legislation and the patent practice the computer readable medium may not be the telecommunications signal. In an example embodiment the computer readable medium may be a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

Now that the basic communication sequence between the customer service provider and the retailers has been described with reference to let us elaborate this. illustrates an example embodiment of communication between the various actors.

The service provider may be an application service provider which provides the computer based service with Internet hosting for both the customers and retailers . In an example embodiment the service provider is the applicant OP Pohjola Group or some other financial institution.

As already explained the customer makes a payment with his her payment card to the point of sale system of the retailer .

The point of sale system transmits the transaction s to a routing acquiring issuing bank . As the role of the bank is not very important the complex structure is depicted with a single entity although the situation may in reality be quite complex. The acquiring bank processes the credit or debit card payments for the commodities and it acquires credit card payment from the card issuing banks within an association. The issuing bank offers the possibly card association branded payment cards to the consumers and it issues the payment to the acquiring bank on behalf of the consumer . Well known card associations include Visa MasterCard American Express and Diners Club for example. It is also to be noted that the integration grade between the computing resource and the routing acquiring issuing bank may change every element may be a separate actor or one or more elements may be combined to a multi actor element.

In the example embodiment of a customer filtering function filters in such transactions that relate to a customer and or retailer participating in the system. The filtered in transactions are conveyed to the computing resource . The computing resource may receive at least part of the supplementary information from the point of sale system of the retailer . Alternatively or additionally a part of the supplementary information may be maintained within the computing resource or it may be received from another service such as a retailer portal. Also other information may be exchanged between the point of sale system and the computing resource .

The transaction information relating to the payments and the supplementary information of a plurality of trades may be transmitted from the computing resource to the mobile apparatus in a plurality of packets . The packet may include control information and the actual payload. The term packet also includes the possibility that messages are used i.e. the data is divided into messages which in turn are transported by the packets.

Relating to each single trade the transaction information and the supplementary information may be combined into a single packet flow or as illustrated in the transaction information packet and the supplementary information packet may be separate packet flows.

The sequence of packets between the computing resource and the mobile apparatus may be implemented in various ways. In an example embodiment the packets are network originated. In an example embodiment the basic transaction information is transmitted in a push notification from the computing resource to the mobile apparatus whereupon the mobile apparatus may fetch the supplementary information from the computing resource as a download from a specific web site for example. The push mechanism relieves both the mobile apparatus polling message and the computing resource response message to the polling message from the polling which saves computing and radio resources and also the battery of the mobile apparatus .

The supplementary information may be combined with the receipt. In a way the receipt becomes an enhanced communication medium as besides the transaction information relating to the payment also supplementary information is carried to the mobile apparatus and presented to its user .

Finally let us study several example embodiments which illustrate various use cases i.e. helpful ways to enhance the communication between the customer and the retailers . These example embodiments also serve to illustrate the nature of the supplementary information. Naturally the list of the example embodiments is non exhaustive as the supplementary information may include also other kind of information typically transaction related.

In an example embodiment of the supplementary information comprises a warranty certificate . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to receive with the communication interface a warranty certificate of the traded commodity issued by the retailer and insert the warranty certificate into the packets . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to extract from the received packets a warranty certificate of the traded commodity issued by the retailer and store the warranty certificate in a memory coupled with the mobile apparatus and or into a memory accessible through the wireless transceiver .

In the warranty certificate is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the retailer . The supplementary information includes information on the warranty period. Field displays other supplementary information relating to the warranty such as the contact information of the service warranty department. Furthermore the field displays other transaction information such as the name model and serial number of the product. Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the warranty.

In an example embodiment of the supplementary information comprises a customer feedback form . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to receive with the communication interface a customer feedback form of the traded commodity provided by the retailer insert the customer feedback form into the packets receive with the communication interface the filled customer feedback form filled with the user input from the mobile apparatus and provide with the communication interface the filled customer feedback form to the retailer of the traded commodity. The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to extract from the received packets a customer feedback form of the traded commodity provided by the retailer fill with the user interface the customer feedback form with user input and transmit with the wireless transceiver the filled customer feedback form to the electronic service .

In the customer feedback form is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the retailer . Field displays other supplementary information relating to the trade such as a short summary of the feedback questions. Furthermore the field displays other transaction information such as the name and model of the product. Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the customer feedback. In our example embodiment the complete questions of the feedback form to be filled are opened by clicking the button .

In an example embodiment of the supplementary information comprises a link . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to receive with the communication interface a link pointing to an action to be performed in social media relating to the retailer of the traded commodity and insert the link into the packets . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to extract from the received packets a link pointing to an action to be performed in social media relating to the retailer of the traded commodity and perform with the user interface and the wireless transceiver the action pointed by the link in the social media.

In the social media information is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the retailer . Field displays other supplementary information relating to the social media such as the suggestion to recommend the purchased product to a friend. Furthermore the field displays other transaction information such as the name and model of the product. Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the social media such as the link to the social media.

In an example embodiment of the supplementary information comprises a loyalty program note . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to receive with the communication interface a loyalty program note from a loyalty program maintained by the retailer of the traded commodity and insert the loyalty program note into the packets . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to register with the user interface and the wireless transceiver into a loyalty program maintained by the retailer of the traded commodity and extract from the received packets a loyalty program note relating to the retailer of the traded commodity within the registered loyalty program.

In the loyalty program note is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the retailer . Field displays other supplementary information relating to the loyalty program such as the number of earned bonus points of the loyalty program. Furthermore a link leading to the loyalty program account is displayed as the supplementary information . The field also displays other transaction information such as the name and model of the product. Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the loyalty program.

The loyalty program refers to a structured marketing effort rewarding loyal buying behavior. In an example embodiment a loyalty card also known as a rewards card points card advantage card or club card is provided for the customer in connection with the loyalty program. The loyalty card may be a plastic or paper card visually similar to a credit card or debit card identifying the card holding customer as a member in the loyalty program. However the loyalty card may also be in electronic format existing only virtually in the mobile apparatus and or in the computing resource . By presenting the loyalty card the customer may be entitled to either a discount on the current purchase or an allotment of points that can be used for future purchases or a rebate for a future purchase e.g. a so called rebound coupon . The loyalty program note may include supplementary information relating to the present status of the loyalty program such as discount or points information or a rebound coupon for example.

In an example embodiment of the supplementary information comprises a loyalty program join offer . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to recognize among the received plurality of the transactions such a lacking retailer to whose loyalty program the user does not yet belong to insert a loyalty program join offer of the lacking retailer into the packets receive with the communication interface a registration on the basis of the loyalty program join offer into the loyalty program maintained by the retailer from the mobile apparatus and provide with the communication interface the registration into the loyalty program to the retailer . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to extract from the received packets a loyalty program join offer relating to the retailer of the traded commodity and register with the user interface and the wireless transceiver on the basis of the loyalty program join offer into the loyalty program maintained by the retailer of the traded commodity.

In the loyalty program offer is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the retailer . Field displays other supplementary information relating to the loyalty program offer such as the offer of the bonus points for the loyalty program. Furthermore a link leading to the loyalty program home page is displayed as the supplementary information . The field also displays other transaction information such as the name and model of the product. Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the loyalty program.

In an example embodiment of the supplementary information comprises a virtual discount coupon . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to generate a virtual discount coupon on the basis of the transaction information such that the virtual discount coupon is good for a predetermined period of time for purchasing a commodity from the retailer and insert the virtual discount coupon into the packets . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to extract from the received packets a virtual discount coupon generated on the basis of the trade with the retailer such that the virtual discount coupon is good for a predetermined period of time for purchasing a commodity from the retailer and output with the user interface the virtual discount coupon .

In the virtual discount coupon is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the retailer . The supplementary information includes information on the validity period of the virtual discount coupon. Field displays other transaction information such as the name and purchase date of the commodity. Symbol includes the supplementary information informing the user of the amount of the discount for the next purchase. Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the virtual discount coupon. This example embodiment provides a simple way of implementing the virtual discount coupon without a need to scan a QR Quick Response code or the like.

In an example embodiment of the supplementary information also comprises a virtual discount coupon but the difference to is that in the virtual discount coupon is for the next purchase from the same retailer PIZZERIA C whereas in the virtual discount coupon is earned on the basis of the purchase from the first retailer CINEMA D to the purchase from the second retailer HAMBURGER RESTAURANT E . Accordingly the one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to generate a virtual discount coupon on the basis of the transaction information such that the virtual discount coupon is good for a predetermined period of time for purchasing a commodity from a retailer other than to which the transaction relates to and insert the virtual discount coupon into the packets . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to extract from the received packets a virtual discount coupon on the basis of the trade with the retailer such that the virtual discount coupon is good for a predetermined period of time for purchasing a commodity from a retailer other than to which the transaction relates to and output with the user interface the virtual discount coupon .

In the virtual discount coupon is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the retailer CINEMA D but as shown the name of the other retailer HAMBURGER RESTAURANT E may also be shown as a part of the supplementary information . The supplementary information includes information on the validity period of the virtual discount coupon . Field displays other transaction information relating to the purchase of the commodity. Symbol includes the supplementary information informing the user of the amount of the discount for the purchase from the other retailer. Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the virtual discount coupon. This example embodiment nurtures trading of commodities within a network of retailers such as retailers within a specific shopping center for example. This example embodiment utilizes the almost real time connection to the mobile apparatus after the purchase of the commodity whereby the virtual discount coupon arrives just in time i.e. while the user is still in the shopping center so that the virtual discount coupon incites the user for an immediate purchase from the other retailer.

In the loyalty stamp card is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the retailer . The supplementary information includes information on the validity period of the loyalty stamp card. Fields and are supplementary information forming ten slots. Accordingly stamps and are transaction information filling the slots as the results of the purchases on the shown dates. Symbol is supplementary information informing the user of the gift obtained with the fully stamped card . Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the loyalty stamp card .

In an example embodiment of the supplementary information comprises an interactive loyalty game . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the computing resource are configured to with the one or more processors of the computing resource cause the computing resource to generate an event for a loyalty program on the basis of the transaction information such that the event belongs to a chain of past recorded and future planned events the chain of events constituting an interactive loyalty game rewarding the user for performing trades belonging to the chain of events and insert the loyalty program event into the packets . The one or more memories and the computer program code of the mobile apparatus are configured to with the one or more processors of the mobile apparatus cause the mobile apparatus to extract from the received packets an event for a loyalty program on the basis of the trade with the retailer such that the event belongs to a chain of past recorded and future planned events the chain of events constituting an interactive loyalty game rewarding the user for performing trades belonging to the chain of events and output with the user interface the loyalty program event.

In the loyalty game is displayed on the display of the mobile apparatus . The transaction information includes the name of the first retailer . The supplementary information includes information on the first purchase such as the date stamp launching the loyalty game . Fields and are supplementary information indicating the next four purchases that need to be made in order to advance in the game. In the date stamp on the field becomes the first past recorded event and the fields and are shown as the future planned events.

Symbol is supplementary information informing the user of a surprise gift obtained if all previous purchases are made. Naturally the supplementary information may also comprise other information relating to the trade and the loyalty game .

Note that only illustrate a very simple loyalty game scheme. Depending on the game design it may be more complicate. The loyalty game may include hidden elements which only become visible if the first phases of the game plan are followed. Furthermore the game design may include varying routes for example the first purchases may indicate the users preference to certain kind of activities whereupon the offers belonging to the loyalty game are tailored to meet those preferences. For example in it is supposed that the person likes physical activities. However if it is found out or known beforehand that the user prefers culture or lighter physical activities another choice or choice between different sequences of events may be presented.

It is also to be noted that the loyalty game of includes various retailers. However also such an example embodiment is feasible wherein a single retailer implements the loyalty game the various stages may include various departments and or locations of the retailer for example.

It will be obvious to a person skilled in the art that as technology advances the inventive concept can be implemented in various ways. The invention and its embodiments are not limited to the example embodiments described above but may vary within the scope of the claims.

