---

title: Dioxino- and oxazin-[2,3-D]pyrimidine PI3K inhibitor compounds and methods of use
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09346817&OS=09346817&RS=09346817
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 09346817
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130829
---
This non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 694 898 filed on 30 Aug. 2012 which is incorporated by reference in entirety.

The invention relates generally to compounds with anti cancer activity or anti inflammatory activity and more specifically to compounds which inhibit PI3 kinase activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Phosphatidylinositol is one of a number of phospholipids found in cell membranes which play an important role in intracellular signal transduction. Cell signaling via 3 phosphorylated phosphoinositides has been implicated in a variety of cellular processes e.g. malignant transformation growth factor signaling inflammation and immunity Rameh et al 1999 J. Biol Chem 274 8347 8350 . The enzyme responsible for generating these phosphorylated signaling products phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase also referred to as PI 3 kinase or PI3K was originally identified as an activity associated with viral oncoproteins and growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI and its phosphorylated derivatives at the 3 hydroxyl of the inositol ring Panayotou et al 1992 Trends Cell Biol 2 358 60 .

Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3K are lipid kinases that phosphorylate lipids at the 3 hydroxyl residue of an inositol ring Whitman et al 1988 Nature 332 664 . The 3 phosphorylated phospholipids PIP3s generated by PI3 kinases act as second messengers recruiting kinases with lipid binding domains including plekstrin homology PH regions such as Akt and phosphoinositide dependent kinase 1 PDK1 . Binding of Akt to membrane PIP3s causes the translocation of Akt to the plasma membrane bringing Akt into contact with PDK1 which is responsible for activating Akt. The tumor suppressor phosphatase PTEN dephosphorylates PIP3 and therefore acts as a negative regulator of Akt activation. The PI3 kinases Akt and PDK1 are important in the regulation of many cellular processes including cell cycle regulation proliferation survival apoptosis and motility and are significant components of the molecular mechanisms of diseases such as cancer diabetes and immune inflammation Vivanco et al 2002 Nature Rev. Cancer 2 489 Phillips et al 1998 Cancer 83 41 .

The main PI3 kinase isoform in cancer is the Class I PI3 kinase p110 alpha U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 492 U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 824 U.S. Pat. No. 6 274 327 . Other isoforms are implicated in cardiovascular and immune inflammatory disease Workman P 2004 Biochem Soc Trans 32 393 396 Patel et al 2004 Proceedings of the American Association of Cancer Research Abstract LB 247 95th Annual Meeting March 27 31 Orlando Fla. USA Ahmadi K and Waterfield Md. 2004 Encyclopedia of Biological Chemistry Lennarz W J Lane M D eds Elsevier Academic Press . The PI3 kinase Akt PTEN pathway is an attractive target for cancer drug development since such modulating or inhibitory agents would be expected to inhibit proliferation reverse the repression of apoptosis and surmount resistance to cytotoxic agents in cancer cells Folkes et al 2008 J. Med. Chem. 51 5522 5532 Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 .

Malignant gliomas are the most common primary brain tumors in adults. In glioblastoma GBM the most aggressive glioma subtype tumor formation and growth appear to be driven by amplification or overexpression of gene products involved in growth factor initiated signal transduction acting in cooperation with genetic alterations disrupting cell cycle control Holland EC 2001 2 120 129 . Of the genomic alterations described in GBM PTEN mutation and or deletion is the most common with an estimated frequency of 70 90 Nutt C Louis D N 2005 McGraw Hill New York 2nd Ed pp 837 847. . These findings along with the prognostic value of PTEN status in GBM cases Phillips H S et al. 2006 9 157 163 suggest the importance of the phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K Akt pathway in promoting highly aggressive glial malignancies as well as the opportunities for treatment with PI3K inhibitors possessing blood brain barrier penetrant properties.

Malignant gliomas are treated with a combination of surgery radiation and temozolomide TEMODAR but these therapies ultimately fail at a high frequency due to tumor recurrence. Additional therapies are needed for delivery of effective concentrations of effective drugs to the brain to treat hyperproliferative disorders such as glioblastoma and metastatic brain cancer.

The invention relates generally to dioxino oxazin 2 3 d pyrimidine PI3K inhibitor compounds of Formula I with anti cancer activity anti inflammatory activity or immunoregulatory properties and more specifically with PI3 kinase modulating or inhibitory activity. Certain hyperproliferative disorders are characterized by the modulation of PI3 kinase function for example by mutations or overexpression of the proteins. Accordingly the compounds of the invention may be useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer. The compounds may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients.

The invention also relates to methods of using the dioxino oxazin 2 3 d pyrimidine PI3K inhibitor compounds of Formula I for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The substituents are as described herein.

Another aspect of the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine PI3K inhibitor compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical composition may further comprise one or more additional therapeutic agent.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of inhibiting PI3 kinase activity comprising contacting a PI3 kinase with an effective inhibitory amount of a compound of Formula I.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of preventing or treating a hyperproliferative disease or disorder modulated by PI3 kinases comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of Formula I. Examples of such hyperproliferative disease or disorder include but are not limited to cancer.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of preventing or treating a hyperproliferative disorder comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of Formula I alone or in combination with one or more additional compounds having anti hyperproliferative properties.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of using a compound of this invention to treat a hyperproliferative disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

An additional aspect of the invention is the use of a compound of this invention for treating cancer modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal including brain cancer.

Another aspect of the invention includes kits comprising a compound of Formula I a container and optionally a package insert or label indicating a treatment.

Another aspect of the invention includes methods of preparing methods of separating and methods of purifying compounds of Formula I.

Another aspect of the invention includes novel intermediates useful for preparing Formula I compounds.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms C C wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. In another embodiment an alkyl radical is one to eight carbon atoms C C or one to six carbon atoms C C . Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to eight carbon atoms C C with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged e.g. as a bicyclic 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclic 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclic 2.2.1 heptane bicyclic 2.2.2 octane and bicyclic 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms C C derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to about 20 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S e.g. bicyclic 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to morpholin 4 yl piperidin 1 yl piperazinyl piperazin 4 yl 2 one piperazin 4 yl 3 one pyrrolidin 1 yl thiomorpholin 4 yl S dioxothiomorpholin 4 yl azocan 1 yl azetidin 1 yl octahydropyrido 1 2 a pyrazin 2 yl 1 4 diazepan 1 yl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including e.g. 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including e.g. 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked bonded where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured e.g. by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer refers to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. pemetrexed ALIMTA Eli Lilly trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethylethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX and doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN Akti 1 2 HPPD and rapamycin.

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 Mek inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 Mek inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNEO Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline lonafarnib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Il vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma1I calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin nemorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including e.g. tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as e.g. 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation e.g. PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines e.g. ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result e.g. from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art e.g. treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method e.g. treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethylacetate acetic acid and ethanolamine.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I include compounds of Formulas I and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

Any formula or structure given herein including Formula I compounds is also in intended to represent hydrates solvates and polymorphs of such compounds and mixtures thereof.

The present invention provides dioxino and oxazin 2 3 d pyrimidine PI3K inhibitor compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutical formulations thereof which are potentially useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by PI3 kinases PI3K . More specifically the present invention provides compounds of Formula I 

Rand Rare independently selected from H O C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl and C Ccarbocyclyl where alkyl and carbocyclyl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CH CHCH CH CH CHCH CH CHCH CHCN CN CF CHOH COH CONH CONH CH CON CH NO NH NHCH N CH NHCOCH OH O OCH OCHCH OCH CH SH NHC O NHCH NHC O NHCHCH NHC O NHCH CH NHS O CH N CH C O OC CH S O CH benzyl benzyloxy cyclopropyl morpholinyl morpholinomethyl and 4 methylpiperazin 1 yl or

Further it is to be understood that every embodiment relating to a specific residue R R R as disclosed herein may be combined with any other embodiment relating to another residue R R R as disclosed herein.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Ris independently selected from H CH CHCH C CH CHOH CHCHOH C CH OH CHOCH CN CHF CHF and CF.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Ris independently selected from H CH and cyclopropyl.

Exemplary embodiments of Formula I compounds include wherein Ris independently selected from H CH C CH CHOH CF CHF and cyclopropyl.

Exemplary Formula I compounds include wherein Ris phenyl substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I CH CHCH CH CH CN CF CHOH COH CONH CONH CH CON CH NO NH NHCH N CH NHCOCH OH OCH OCHCH OCH CH SH NHC O NHCH NHC O NHCHCH NHS O CH N CH C O OC CH and S O CH.

Exemplary Formula I compounds include wherein Ris an optionally substituted bicyclic heteroaryl group selected from 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 3H imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 7H purine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 naphthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine and pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine.

Exemplary Formula I compounds include wherein Ris an optionally substituted monocyclic heteroaryl group selected from 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrazinyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl 2 tetrazolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 triazolyl and 1 triazolyl.

Exemplary Formula I compounds include wherein Ris an optionally substituted monocyclic heteroaryl group selected from pyridyl pyrimidinyl or pyrazolyl.

The Formula I compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention.

In addition the present invention embraces all geometric and positional isomers. For example if a Formula I compound incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures thereof are embraced within the scope of the invention. Both the single positional isomers and mixture of positional isomers are also within the scope of the present invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The compounds of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H D H C C N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Determination of the PI3 kinase activity of a Formula I compound is possible by a number of direct and indirect detection methods. Certain exemplary compounds described herein were assayed for their p110 alpha and other isoform PI3K binding activity Example 901 and in vitro activity against tumor cells Example 902 . Certain exemplary compounds of the invention had PI3K binding activity ICvalues less than 10 nM. Certain compounds of the invention had tumor cell based activity ECvalues less than 100 nM.

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of Formula I exemplary compounds was measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell line in a cell culture medium adding a Formula I compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability Example 902 . Cell based in vitro assays were used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation .

The in vitro potency of Formula I exemplary compounds was measured by the cell proliferation assay CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay commercially available from Promega Corp. Madison Wis. Example 902 . This homogeneous assay method is based on the recombinant expression of luciferase U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 670 and determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiter Glo Assay was conducted in 96 or 384 well format making it amenable to automated high throughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 . The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

The homogeneous add mix measure format results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP present. The amount of ATP is directly proportional to the number of cells present in culture. The CellTiter Glo Assay generates a glow type luminescent signal produced by the luciferase reaction which has a half life generally greater than five hours depending on cell type and medium used. Viable cells are reflected in relative luminescence units RLU . The substrate Beetle Luciferin is oxidatively decarboxylated by recombinant firefly luciferase with concomitant conversion of ATP to AMP and generation of photons. The extended half life eliminates the need to use reagent injectors and provides flexibility for continuous or batch mode processing of multiple plates. This cell proliferation assay can be used with various multiwell formats e.g. 96 or 384 well format. Data can be recorded by luminometer or CCD camera imaging device. The luminescence output is presented as relative light units RLU measured over time.

The anti proliferative effects of Formula I exemplary compounds were measured by the CellTiter Glo Assay Example 902 against several tumor cell lines. Potency ECvalues were established for the tested compounds. The range of in vitro cell potency activities was about 100 nM to about 10 M. Certain tested compounds had ECvalues of less than 1 micromolar 1 M in stopping proliferation of certain tumor cell lines.

Certain ADME properties were measured for certain exemplary compounds by assays including Caco 2 Permeability Example 903 Hepatocyte Clearance Example 904 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Example 905 Cytochrome P450 Induction Example 906 Plasma Protein Binding Example 907 and hERG channel blockage Example 908 .

Certain exemplary compounds were tested for efficacy in dose escalation studies in tumor bearing Taconic NCR nude mouse models Example 909 . The U 87 MG Merchant an in house variant derived from U 87 MG cells from ATCC Manassas Va. subcutaneous xenograft mouse model was employed to test Formula I compounds at escalating doses along with Vehicle MCT negative control . Tumor growth delay was measured following once daily oral dosing for 

Blood brain barrier penetrant properties potential was assessed in vitro using MDCK cells stably transfected with P glycoprotein MDR1 or bcrp1 Example 911 . Brain penetration was determined in vivo by measuring compound concentrations Example 912 and or by measuring the modulation of the PI3K pathway Example 913 in the brain of mice following a single IV or oral dose. Brain tumor efficacy was measured in Example 914 by GS 2 human glioblastoma muliforme GBM engineered to express luciferase . The effect of once daily oral dosing on the growth of GS 2 intracranial implants was evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging MRI . Mice with tumor xenografts of U 87 MG cells were dosed with drug or vehicle and samples were analyzed for PK PD and or IHC analysis Example 915 .

Exemplary Formula I compounds No. 101 118 in Table 1 were made characterized and tested for inhibition of PI3K alpha ICor Kbinding to p110 alpha less than 1 micromolar M and selectivity according to the methods of this invention and have the following structures and corresponding names ChemBioDraw Ultra Version 11.0 CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. .

The Formula I compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with e.g. the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula I compound. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Formula I compounds of the present invention are useful for treating hyperproliferative diseases conditions and or disorders including but not limited to those characterized by over expression of lipid kinases e.g. PI3 kinase. Accordingly an aspect of this invention includes methods of treating or preventing diseases or conditions that can be treated or prevented by inhibiting lipid kinases including PI3. In one embodiment the method comprises administering to a mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In one embodiment a human patient is treated with a compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle wherein said compound of Formula I is present in an amount to detectably inhibit PI3 kinase activity.

One embodiment of the invention includes a method of treating cancer in a patient comprised of administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention wherein the cancer is breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma renal pancreatic myeloid disorders lymphoma hairy cells buccal cavity naso pharyngeal pharynx lip tongue mouth small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s or leukemia. In one embodiment the cancer is a brain cancer.

In one embodiment of the invention the method further comprises administering to the patient an additional therapeutic agent selected from a chemotherapeutic agent an anti angiogenesis therapeutic agent an anti inflammatory agent an immunomodulatory agent a neurotropic factor an agent for treating cardiovascular disease an agent for treating liver disease an anti viral agent an agent for treating blood disorders an agent for treating diabetes and an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders. In one embodiment of the invention the additional therapeutic agent is bevacizumab.

Formula I compounds may also be useful for treating hyperproliferative diseases characterized by over expression of protein kinases such as those encoded by PIM the genes Pim 1 Pim 2 and Pim 3 Proviral Insertion Moloney which are implicated in lymphoma and solid tumor development Cuypers et al. 1984 Cell vol. 37 1 pp. 141 50 Selten et al. 1985 EMBO J. vol. 4 7 pp. 1793 8 van der Lugt et al. 1995 EMBO J. vol. 14 11 pp. 2536 44 Mikkers et al. 2002 Nature Genetics vol. 32 1 pp. 153 9 van Lohuizen et al. 1991 Cell vol. 65 5 pp. 737 52.

Cancers which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth pharynx small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s and leukemia.

Formula I compounds may be useful for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions such as systemic and local inflammation immune inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis immune suppression organ transplant rejection allergies ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease dermatitis asthma systemic lupus erythematosus Sj gren s Syndrome multiple sclerosis scleroderma systemic sclerosis idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ITP anti neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies ANCA vasculitis chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD psoriasis and for general joint protective effects.

Formula I compounds may be useful for treating conditions of the brain and central nervous system which require transport across the blood brain barrier. Certain Formula I compounds have favorable penetrant properties across the blood brain barrier for delivery to the brain. Disorders of the brain which may be effectively treated with Formula I compounds include metastatic and primary brain tumors such as glioblastoma and melanoma.

Formula I compounds may be useful for treating ocular disorders such as wet and dry Age related Macular Degeneration AMD and retina edema by localized delivery to the eye. Certain Formula I compounds have favorable properties for delivery to and uptake into the eye. Certain Formula I compounds may enhance efficacy and extend duration of response for treatment of wet AMD in combination with ranibizumab LUCENTIS Genentech Inc. and bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech Inc. .

Another aspect of this invention provides a compound of this invention for use in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal e.g. a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal e.g. a human suffering from such disorder.

In order to use a Formula I compound for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

One embodiment of the invention comprises a pharmaceutical composition comprised of a compound of this invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient.

One embodiment of the invention comprises a process for making a pharmaceutical composition which comprises combining a compound of this invention with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

One embodiment of the invention includes a pharmaceutical composition as described above further comprising an additional therapeutic agent selected from a chemotherapeutic agent an anti inflammatory agent an immunomodulatory agent a neurotropic factor an agent for treating cardiovascular disease an agent for treating liver disease an anti viral agent an agent for treating blood disorders an agent for treating diabetes and an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a Formula I compound and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the Formula I compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method of administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of Formula I having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

The compound of this invention for use herein is preferably sterile. In particular formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. Such sterilization is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

The compound ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention comprising a Formula I compound will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the coagulation factor mediated disorder. Such amount is preferably below the amount that is toxic to the host or renders the host significantly more susceptible to bleeding.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the Formula I compound administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared e.g. by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization e.g. hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems e.g. liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations of Formula I compounds may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels e.g. poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula I.

Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom.

Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use. Formulations of compounds of Formula I intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be e.g. inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations may be applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of e.g. 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base.

If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs.

The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with an oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of Formula I compounds contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of compounds of Formula I may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w about 0.5 to 10 w w or about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising e.g. cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size e.g. in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers e.g. sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier e.g. water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of Formula I may be employed alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second compound that has anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of Formula I such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of Formula I in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent such as described herein.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes separate pills or capsules or separate infusions. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

In a particular embodiment of anti cancer therapy a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be combined with other chemotherapeutic hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of Formula I and the other pharmaceutically active chemotherapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formula I described herein. Such products may result e.g. from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formula I including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo may be useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. The kit comprises a container comprising a compound of Formula I. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

One embodiment of the invention comprises a kit for treating a PI3K mediated condition comprising a compound of this invention and instructions for use.

Suitable containers include e.g. bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port e.g. the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of Formula I. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder such as a hyperproliferative disorder neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine or a neurotraumatic disease or event. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula I can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula I and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula I and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided e.g. in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of Formula I and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Tricyclic compounds of Formula I may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein. The starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser v. 1 23 Wiley N.Y. 1967 2006 ed. or 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

In certain embodiments compounds of Formula I may be readily prepared using well known procedures to prepare heterocycle compounds described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry II Editors Katritzky and Rees Elsevier 1997 e.g. Volume 3 Liebigs Annalen der Chemie 9 1910 16 1985 Helvetica Chimica Acta 41 1052 60 1958 Arzneimittel Forschung 40 12 1328 31 1990 .

Compounds of Formula I may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 e.g. 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of Formula I may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

For illustrative purposes the General Procedures show general methods which may be applied for preparation of Formula I compounds as well as key intermediates. The Figures and Examples sections contain more detailed description of individual reaction steps. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although certain starting materials and routes are depicted in the Schemes General Procedures and Examples other similar starting materials and routes can be substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing compounds of Formula I protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene John Wiley Sons New York Third Ed. 1999.

In the methods of preparing the compounds of this invention it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including e.g. reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved. For example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl S phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters of the racemic mixture such as a menthyl ester for example with menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. J. Org. Chem. 1982 47 4165 and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 1996 015111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a monocyclic heteroaryl a fused bicyclic heterocycle a fused bicyclic heteroaryl or a phenyl at the 2 position of the pyrimidine ring of a 2 chloro pyrimidine 1 intermediate of Formula I compounds. For example 1 may be combined with an aryl or heteroaryl boronate reagent 2 where R is H or a protected boronate such as pinacol. For example 1.5 equivalents of 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 24 is dissolved in about 3 equivalents of sodium carbonate as about a 1 molar solution in water and about an equal volume of acetonitrile. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added to give 3. Substituents R R R may be R R Ras defined or protected forms or precursors thereof.

A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the indazole boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively the nitrogen of the indazole may be protected for example N THP protected compound 25. In some cases potassium acetate is used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The Suzuki palladium coupling reaction may be optimized and or accelerated under microwave conditions. The reaction may be heated at about 100 150 C. under pressure in a microwave reactor such as the Biotage Optimizer Biotage Inc. for about 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are cooled concentrated and extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the Suzuki coupling products 3 may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC.

A variety of palladium catalysts can be used during palladium mediated cross Suzuki coupling reaction of a halide 1 with a boronic acid or ester 2 such as 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 24 or 4 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidine 2 ylamine 26. Low valent Pd II and Pd 0 catalysts may be used in the Suzuki coupling reaction including PdCl2 PPh Pd t Bu PdCldppf CHCl Pd PPh Pd OAc PPh ClPd Pet Pd DIPHOS ClPd Bipy PdCl PhPCHPPh ClPd P o tol Pd dba P o tol Pd dba P furyl ClPd P furyl ClPd PmePh ClPd P 4 F Ph ClPd P CF ClPd P 2 COOH Ph Ph ClPd P 4 COOH Ph Ph and encapsulated catalysts Pd EnCat 30 Pd EnCat TPP30 and Pd II EnCat BINAP30 US 2004 0254066 . One such Suzuki palladium catalyst is 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II complex with dichloromethane represented as Pd dppf Cl.

The chemical reactions described in the Examples may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other PI3K inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting reactive functional groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

In the Examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius. Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Sigma Aldrich Chemical Company Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated. The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried. Column chromatography was conducted on a Biotage system Manufacturer Dyax Corporation having a silica gel column or on a silica SEP PAK cartridge Waters . H NMR spectra were obtained at 400 MHz in deuterated CDCl d DMSO CHOD or d acetone solutions reported in ppm using chloroform as the reference standard 7.25 ppm . When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet m multiplet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets . Coupling constants when given are reported in hertz Hz .

Under an atmosphere of nitrogen sodium metal 1.15 g 0.05 moles was added portionwise to ethanol dried over 4 molecular sieves 50 mL at 40 C. and the mixture stirred until a solution was formed. Urea 3.0 g 0.05 moles was added and the mixture heated at 100 C. for 15 minutes until complete dissolution was achieved. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool slightly and methoxymethyl malonate 8.1 g 0.05 moles added a pink white precipitate forming almost immediately. Further dry ethanol 10 mL was added to maintain a stirrable mixture. The resultant suspension was heated at 100 C. reflux for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue dried under high vacuum to give 6 Hydroxy 5 methoxy 1H pyrimidine 2 4 dione sodium salt as a pink white solid used in the subsequent step without analysis or purification.

6 Hydroxy 5 methoxy 1H pyrimidine 2 4 dione sodium salt 21 mmol was suspended in phosphorous oxychloride 20 mL and the mixture divided between two 20 mL microwave reaction vials. The reaction mixtures were heated at 130 140 C. 10 12 bar for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation CARE SIGNIFICANT PRESSURE INCREASE . The cooled reaction mixtures were combined and poured onto warm approximately 40 C. water CARE and the resultant mixture extracted twice with ethyl acetate the combined organic extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give 2 4 6 Trichloro 5 methoxy pyrimidine as a crystalline yellow brown solid 3.75 g 84 . H NMR CDCl 3.98 3H s .

Under an atmosphere of nitrogen a solution of 2 4 6 trichloro 5 methoxy pyrimidine 4.0 g 18.7 mmol in DCM 200 mL was cooled to 0 C. and treated with boron tribromide 6.6 mL 65 mmol dropwise. After stirring for 18 hours at RT the reaction mixture was cooled and diluted with methanol 25 mL CARE EXOTHERM and the reaction mixture diluted with water 200 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with DCM and the combined organic extracts dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to give 2 4 6 Trichloro 5 hydroxy pyrimidine as a pale tan solid 2.55 g 71 . C NMR DMSO d 149.23 C 145.25 C 145.08 C . LCMS Method C R 2.65 2.77. M H 197 199.

To a solution of 3 bromo 2 methyl aniline 5.0 g 26.9 mmol in chloroform 50 mL was added potassium acetate 1.05 eq. 28.2 mmol 2.77 g . Acetic anhydride 2.0 eq. 53.7 mmol 5.07 mL was added with concurrent cooling in ice water. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes after which time a white gelatinous solid formed. 18 Crown 6 0.2 eq. 5.37 mmol 1.42 g was added followed by iso amyl nitrite 2.2 eq. 59.1 mmol 7.94 mL and the mixture was heated under reflux for 18 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool and was partitioned between chloroform 3 100 mL and saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 100 mL separated and dried MgSO . The crude product was evaporated onto silica and purified by chromatography eluting with 20 to 40 EtOAc petrol to give 1 4 bromo indazol 1 yl ethanone A 3.14 g 49 as an orange solid and 4 bromo 1H indazole B 2.13 g 40 as a pale orange solid. A H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 2.80 3H s 7.41 1H t J 7.8 Hz 7.50 1H d J 7.8 Hz 8.15 1H s 8.40 1H d J 7.8 Hz . B H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.25 1H t J 7.3 Hz 7.33 1H d J 7.3 Hz 7.46 1H d J 7.3 Hz 8.11 1H s 10.20 1H br s .

To a solution of the 1 4 bromo indazol 1 yl ethanone A 3.09 g 12.9 mmol in MeOH 50 mL was added 6N aqueous HCl 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 7 h. The MeOH was evaporated and the mixture partitioned between EtOAc 2 50 mL and water 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL separated and dried MgSO . The solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure to give 4 bromo 1H indazole B 2.36 g 93 .

To a solution of the 4 bromo 1H indazole B 500 mg 2.54 mmol and bis pinacolato diboron 1.5 eq. 3.81 mmol in DMSO 20 mL was added potassium acetate 3.0 eq. 7.61 mmol 747 mg dried in drying pistol and PdCl dppf 3 mol 0.076 mmol 62 mg . The mixture was degassed with argon and heated at 80 C. for 40 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool and partitioned between water 50 mL and ether 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL separated and dried MgSO . The crude material was purified by chromatography eluting with 30 to 40 EtOAc petrol to give an inseparable 3 1 mixture of the 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 24 369 mg 60 and indazole 60 mg 20 isolated as a yellow gum which solidified upon standing to furnish as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 1.41 12H s 7.40 1H dd J 8.4 Hz 6.9 Hz 7.59 1H d J 8.4 Hz 7.67 1H d J 6.9 Hz 10.00 1H br s 8.45 1H s and indazole 7.40 1H t 7.18 1H t J 7.9 Hz 7.50 1H d J 9.1 Hz 7.77 1H d J 7.9 Hz 8.09 1H s impurity at 1.25.

To a solution of 2 methyl 3 nitroaniline 2.27 g 14.91 mmol in acetic acid 60 mL was added a solution of sodium nitrite 1.13 g 1.1 eq. in water 5 mL . After 2 h the deep red solution was poured onto ice water and the resulting precipitate collected by filtration to yield 4 nitro 1H indazole C 1.98 g 81 .

A mixture of 4 nitro 1H indazole C 760 mg 4.68 mmol palladium on charcoal 10 cat. and ethanol 30 mL was stirred under a balloon of hydrogen for 4 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered through celite and the solvent removed in vacuo to yield 1H indazol 4 ylamine D 631 mg 100 .

An aqueous solution of sodium nitrite 337 mg 4.89 mmol in water 2 mL was added dropwise to a suspension of 1H indazol 4 ylamine D 631 mg 4.74 mmol in 6M hydrochloric acid 7.2 mL at below 0 C. After stirring for 30 minutes sodium tetrafluoroborate 724 mg was added to the reaction mixture. A viscous solution resulted which was filtered and washed briefly with water to yield 1H indazole 4 diazonium tetrafluoroborate salt E 218 mg 20 as a deep red solid.

Dry methanol 4 mL was purged with argon for 5 minutes. To this was added 1H indazole 4 diazonium tetrafluoroborate salt 218 mg 0.94 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 239 mg 1.0 eq. and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II chloride 20 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 h and then filtered through celite. The residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 24 117 mg .

Step A Preparation of 4 chloro 1H indazole To a 250 ml flask with stir bar was added 2 methyl 3 chloroaniline 8.4 ml 9.95 g 70.6 mmol potassium acetate 8.3 g 84.7 mmol and chloroform 120 ml . This mixture was cooled to 0 C. with stirring. To the cooled mixture was added acetic anhydride 20.0 ml 212 mmol drop wise over 2 minutes. The reaction mixture was warmed to 25 C. and stirred for 1 hour. At this point the reaction was heated to 60 C. Isoamyl nitrite 18.9 ml 141 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred overnight at 60 C. Once complete water 75 ml and THF 150 ml were added and the reaction was cooled to 0 C. LiOH 20.7 g 494 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 3 hours. Water 200 ml was added and the product was extracted with EtOAc 300 ml 100 ml . The organic layers were combined dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to yield 4 chloro 1H indazole 11.07 g 100 as an orange solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.18 d J 1 Hz 1H 7.33 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.31 t J 7 Hz 1H 7.17 dd J 7 Hz 1 Hz 1H . LCMS ESI pos m e 153 M 1 .

Step B Preparation of 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole To a 1 L flask with mechanical stirrer was added 4 chloro 1H indazole 75.0 g 0.492 mol pyridinium p toluenesulfonate 1.24 g 4.92 mmol CHCl 500 ml and 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 98.6 ml 1.08 mol . With stirring this mixture was heated to 45 C. for 16 hours. Analysis of reaction mixture shows production of both isomers of product. Cooled reaction to 25 C. and added CHCl 200 ml . Washed the solution with water 300 ml and saturated NaHCO 250 ml . Dried the organics with MgSOand concentrated to dryness. Purified the crude product by dissolving in EtOAc hexanes 4 6 1 L and adding SiO 1.2 L . The mixture was filtered and the cake was washed with EtOAc Hexanes 4 6 2 L . The organics were concentrated in vacuo to yield 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole 110.2 g 95 as an orange solid. Isomer 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.10 d J 1 Hz 1H 7.50 dd J 9 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.29 dd J 9 Hz 8 Hz 1H 7.15 dd J 8 Hz 1 Hz 1H 5.71 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.02 m 1H 3.55 m 1H 2.51 m 1H 2.02 m 2H 1.55 m 3H . LCMS ESI pos m e 237 M 1 Isomer 2 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.25 d J 1 Hz 1H 7.62 dd J 9 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.20 dd J 9 Hz 8 Hz 1H 7.06 dd J 8 Hz 1 Hz 1H 5.69 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.15 m 1H 3.80 m 1H 2.22 m 2H 2.05 m 1H 1.75 m 3H . LCMS ESI pos m e 237 M 1 .

Step C Preparation of 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole To a 500 ml flask with stir bar was added 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole 10.0 g 42.2 mmol DMSO 176 ml PdCl PPh 6.2 g 8.86 mmol tricyclohexylphosphine 0.47 g 1.69 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 16.1 g 63.4 mmol and potassium acetate 12.4 g 0.127 mol . With stirring the mixture was heated to 130 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was cooled to 25 C. and EtOAc 600 ml was added and washed with water 2 250 ml . The organics were dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The crude product was purified by SiOplug 120 g eluting with 10 EtOAc Hexanes 1 L and 30 EtOAc Hexanes 1 L . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give 13.9 g 100 of 1 Tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole as a 20 wt wt solution in ethyl acetate. H NMR shows the presence of about 20 wt wt bis pinacolato diboron. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.37 s 1H 7.62 dd J 14 Hz 2 Hz 1H 7.60 dd J 7 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.31 dd J 8 Hz 7 Hz 1H 5.65 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.05 m 1H 3.75 m 1H 2.59 m 1H 2.15 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.75 m 3H 1.34 s 12H . LCMS ESI pos m e 245 M 1 .

Step A Preparation of 4 nitro 1H indazole A mixture of 2 methyl 3 nitro aniline 200 g 1.315 moles acetic acid 8000 ml was cooled to 15 20 C. and a solution of sodium nitrite 90.6 g 1.315 moles in water 200 ml was slowly added over 30 min. After the addition the reaction temp. was increased to 25 30 C. and the reaction was stirred at this temp for 2 3 h. Reaction progress was monitored by TLC and after completion of reaction product was filtered and residue was washed with acetic acid 1000 ml . Acetic acid was distilled under vacuum 550 mm of Hg below 80 C. and water 8000 ml was added cooled to 25 30 C. and stirred for 30 min. The slurry was filtered and washed with water 1000 ml . Crude product was dried under heating at 70 80 C. for 2 hours then was taken in 5 ethyl acetate n hexane 100 2000 ml solution and stirred for 1 1.5 h at ambient temperature. The suspension was filtered and washed with 5 ethyl acetate n hexane mixture 25 475 ml . The product obtained was dried under vacuum at below 80 C. for 10 12 h to give 4 nitro 1H indazole as a brown solid 150 g 70 mp 200 203 C. H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 13.4 br 1H 8.6 s 1H 8.2 7.95 dd 2H 7.4 m 1H . ESMS m z 164 M 1 . Purity 95 HPLC 

Step B Preparation of 4 amino 1H indazole A mixture of 4 nitro 1H indazole 200 g 1.22 moles and 10 palladium on carbon 20.0 g in EtOH 3000 ml was hydrogenated at ambient temperature reaction was exothermic and temperature increased to 50 C. . After completion of reaction the catalyst was removed by filtration. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum at below 80 C. and cooled to room temperature and n hexane 1000 ml was added to the residue and stirred for 30 min. Isolated solid was filtered and washed with n hexane 200 ml . Product was dried under vacuum at 70 80 C. for 10 12 h to give 4 amino 1H indazole as a brown solid 114 g 70 m. p. 136 143 C. H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 12 br 1H 8.0 s 1H 7.1 7.0 dd 2H 6.5 d 1H 3.9 m 2H . ESMS m z 134 M 1 . Purity 90 95 HPLC 

Step C Preparation of 4 iodo 1H indazole A mixture of 4 amino 1H indazole 50.0 g 0.375 moles in water 100 ml and con. hydrochloric acid 182 ml was cooled to 10 C. To this a solution of sodium nitrite 51.7 g 0.75 moles in water 75 ml was added drop wise at 10 C. in about 30 60 min. during addition frothing was observed . In another flask a mixture of potassium iodide 311 g 1.87 moles in water 3000 ml was prepared at room temperature and to this above cooled diazonium salt at 30 40 C. was added in about 30 40 min. The reaction was maintained at 30 C. for 1 h and after completion of reaction ethyl acetate 500 ml was added and the reaction mixture was filtered through Celite. The layers were separated and the aq. layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 500 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with 5 hypo solution 2 500 ml brine 500 ml dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude product was purified by chromatography silica gel hexane 15 20 ethyl acetate hexane to furnish 4 iodo 1H indazole as an orange solid 23.0 g 25 . mp 151 177 C H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 12.4 br 1H 8.0 s 1H 7.6 dd 2H 7.1 d 1H . ESMS m z 245 M 1 . Purity 95 98 HPLC .

Step D Preparation of 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole A mixture of 4 amino 1H indazole 250.0 g 1.024 moles 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 126.0 g 1.5 moles and PPTS 2.57 g 0.01 moles in CHCl 1250 ml was heated to 50 C. for 2 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into water 625 ml the layers were separated and aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 250 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with water 625 ml dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude residue was purified by chromatography silica gel hexane 5 10 ethyl acetate hexane to furnish 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole as an oil 807.0 g 60 . H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 8.5 s 1H 7.8 m 1H 7.6 d 1H 7.25 m 1H 5.7 dd 1H 4.2 3.8 dd 1H 2.2 2.0 m 4H 2.0 1.8 m 4H . ESMS m z 329 M 1 .

Step E Preparation of 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole A mixture of 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole 100 g 0.304 moles bispinacalotodiborane 96.4 g 0.381 moles PdCl dppf 8.91 g 0.012 moles and potassium acetate 85.97 g 0.905 moles in DMSO 500 ml were heated to 80 C. for 2 3 h. After completion reaction was cooled to room temperature and water 1500 ml was added. Reaction mass was extracted into ethyl acetate 3 200 ml and combined organic layers were evaporated dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel hexane 5 10 ethyl acetate hexane to obtain 1 Tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 25 as viscous brown oil 70.0 g 70 . H NMR CDCl 8.5 s 1H 7.8 m 1H 7.6 d 1H 7.25 m 1H 5.7 dd 1H 4.2 3.8 dd 1H 2.2 2.0 m 4H 2.0 1.8 m 4H 1.4 1.2 s 12H . ESMS m z 329 M 1 

To a solution of 4 methylpyrimidine 2 ylamine 8.0 g 0.073 mol in chloroform 320 mL was added N bromosuccinimide 13.7 g 0.077 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred in the dark for 18 hrs. LC MS indicated the reaction was completed. The mixture was diluted with DCM then washed with 1N NaOH aq solution and brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to yield 5 bromo 4 methylpyrimidine 2 ylamin 12 g Yield 86 .

A mixture of 5 bromo 4 methylpyrimidine 2 ylamine 5.0 g 26 mmol potassium acetate 7.83 g 79.8 mmol 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 2 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 7.43 g 29.2 mmol in dioxane 140 mL was stirred for 20 min under nitrogen. 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II chloride dichloromethane adduct 1.08 g 1.33 mmol was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was heated to 115 C. for 18 h under nitrogen. Upon completion the mixture was cooled and EtOAc was added. The resulting mixture was sonicated and filtered. Additional EtOAc was used to wash the solid. The combined organic extracts were washed with water dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude was purified by chromatography eluting with 20 100 EtOAc hexane to yield 4.5 g of 4 methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidine 2 ylamine 26 yield 74 . H NMR DMSO 400 MHz 8.28 s 1H 6.86 br s 2H 2.35 s 3H 1.25 s 12H . MS ESI m e M H 236.15 154.07.

A mixture of 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 ol 3.0 g 15.0 mmol ethylglycolate 16.7 mL 17.3 mmol triphenylphosphine 4.5 g 17.3 mmol and DIAD 3.4 mL 17.3 mmol in dioxane 100 mL was stirred at RT for 18 hours then concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 15 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording 2 4 6 Trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid ethyl ester as a white solid 2.67 g 62 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.77 2H s 4.28 2H q J 7.14 Hz 1.32 3H t J 7.15 Hz .

A mixture of 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid ethyl ester 2.67 g 9.35 mmol morpholine 815 L 9.35 mmol and triethylamine 2.6 mL 18.7 mmol in IMS 50 mL was stirred at RT for 2 hours before the reaction was concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The aqueous phase was extracted with further ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid ethyl ester 2.97 g 95 . LCMS R 3.35 min M H 336 338 340.

To a solution of 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid ethyl ester 188 mg 0.56 mmol in THF 2.5 mL at 78 C. was added DIBAL H 2.0 mL 2.0 mmol 1M solution in THF and the resulting mixture warmed to 0 C. over 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was quenched with methanol and Rochelle s salt 1M aqueous solution and the aqueous extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 2 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethanol as an oil 156 mg 95 . LCMS R 2.60 min M H 294 296 298.

To a solution of 2 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethanol 145 mg 0.49 mmol in THF 5 mL was added sodium hydride 59 mg 1.50 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil and the resulting mixture stirred at RT for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 2 Chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 114 mg 90 . LCMS R 2.62 min M H 258 260.

Step 5 A mixture of 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 114 mg 0.44 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 196 mg 0.88 mmol PdCldppf.DCM 36 mg 0.04 mmol and cesium carbonate 430 mg 1.32 mmol in dioxane 5 mL and water 0.5 mL was degassed and then heated at 100 C. for 2 hours. Further 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 100 mg 0.44 mmol PdCldppf.DCM 36 mg 0.04 mmol were added and the mixture heated at 100 C. for a further 2 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 10 methanol in DCM then triturated with diethyl ether affording 101 37 mg 27 . LCMS R 2.75 min M H 317. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 8.90 2H s 7.01 2H s 4.42 4.36 2H m 4.25 4.18 2H m 3.70 8H s .

A mixture of 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 ol 600 mg 3.01 mmol R 2 hydroxy propionic acid ethyl ester 411 L 3.60 mmol triphenylphosphine 906 mg 3.45 mmol and DIAD 678 L 3.45 mmol in dioxane 5 mL was stirred at RT for 18 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 25 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording R 2 2 4 6 Trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy propionic acid ethyl ester 522 mg 52 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.30 4.16 2H m 4.12 1H q J 7.14 Hz 1.70 3H d J 6.78 Hz 1.29 3H t J 7.19 Hz .

A mixture of R 2 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy propionic acid ethyl ester 522 mg 1.74 mmol morpholine 152 L 1.74 mmol and triethylamine 484 L 3.48 mmol in ethanol 15 mL was stirred at RT for 18 hours then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The aqueous phase was extracted with further ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording R 2 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy propionic acid ethyl ester 490 mg 80 . LCMS R 3.57 min M H 350 352.

To a solution of R 2 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy propionic acid ethyl ester 175 mg 0.50 mmol in THF 5 mL at 78 C. was added DIBAL H 2.0 mL 2.0 mmol 1M solution in THF and the resulting mixture warmed to 0 C. over 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was quenched with Rochelle s salt 1M aqueous solution and the aqueous extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was taken up into THF 10 mL to the resultant solution was added sodium hydride 60 mg 1.50 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil and the resulting mixture stirred at RT for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording R 2 Chloro 6 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 157 mg quantitative . LCMS R 2.89 min M H 272 274.

Step 4 A mixture of R 2 chloro 6 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 65 mg 0.24 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 80 mg 0.36 mmol Pd OAc 1 mg 10 mol S phos 4.1 20 mol and potassium phosphate tribasic 106 mg 0.50 mmol in n butanol 2.25 mL and water 0.25 mL was degassed and then heated at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 5 methanol in DCM affording 102 23 mg 29 . LCMS R 3.09 min M H 331. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.15 2H s 5.73 2H s 4.44 1H dd J 11.44 2.17 Hz 4.31 4.24 1H m 4.08 1H dd J 11.45 8.21 Hz 3.89 3.73 8H m 1.42 3H d J 6.38 Hz .

To a solution of 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid ethyl ester 581 mg 1.73 mmol in THF 10 mL and water 2.5 mL was added LiOH 951 L 1.90 mmol 2M aqueous solution and the resulting mixture stirred at RT for 2.5 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with 1M HCl and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid as a white solid 515 mg 97 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.59 2H s 3.93 3.87 4H m 3.81 3.75 4H m .

A mixture of 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid 722 mg 2.34 mmol and CDI 493 mg 3.04 mmol in DCM 5 mL was stirred at RT for 1.5 hours before the addition of triethylamine 457 L 3.28 mmol and O N dimethyl hydroxylamine hydrochloride 320 mg 3.28 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred for 18 hours then quenched with 1M HCl. The aqueous layer was extracted with DCM and the combined organic extracts were washed with brine then dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford 2 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy N methoxy N ethyl acetamide as a yellow oil 830 mg quantitative . LCMS R 2.83 min M H 351 353 355.

To a solution of 2 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy N methoxy N ethyl acetamide 200 mg 0.60 mmol in THF 4 mL at 78 C. was added methylmagnesium bromide 1.28 mL 1.79 mmol 1.4 M solution in THF toluene and the resulting mixture warmed to RT and stirred for 3 hours. The resulting mixture was quenched with 1M HCl and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine then dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 1 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy propan 2 one as a white solid 146 mg 80 . LCMS R 2.90 min M H 306 308 310.

To a solution of 1 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy propan 2 one 146 mg 0.48 mmol in THF 5 mL at 78 C. was added DIBAL H 580 L 0.58 mmol 1M solution in toluene and the resulting mixture warmed to 0 C. and stirred for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to 78 C. before the addition of further DIBAL H 480 L 0.48 mmol and the mixture warmed to 0 C. and stirred for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with Rochelle s salt 1M aqueous solution and the mixture extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine then dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 1 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy propan 2 ol 148 mg quantitative . LCMS R 2.84 min M H 308 310 312.

To a solution of 1 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy propan 2 ol 148 mg 0.48 mmol in THF 8 mL was added sodium hydride 58 mg 1.44 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil and the resulting mixture stirred at RT for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 2 Chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as an off white solid 139 mg quantitative . LCMS R 2.94 min M H 272 274.

Step 6 A mixture of 2 chloro 7 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 99 mg 0.36 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 97 mg 0.44 mmol Pd PPh Cl 28 mg 0.04 mmol and sodium carbonate 1.2 mL 1.20 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.2 mL was degassed then heated at 140 C. for 25 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was filtered flushing with ethyl acetate. The filtrate phases were separated and the aqueous layer extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 4 methanol in DCM then triturated with diethyl ether affording 103 as a white solid 12 mg 11 . LCMS R 3.06 min M H 331. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 8.90 2H s 7.01 2H s 4.57 4.47 1H m 4.36 1H dd J 11.41 2.34 Hz 3.82 1H dd J 11.43 7.60 Hz 3.77 3.61 8H m 1.34 3H d J 6.44 Hz 

To a solution of 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid ethyl ester from Example 101 2.45 g 7.29 mmol in THF 100 mL at 78 C. was added methylmagnesium bromide 14.58 mL 43.74 mmol 3.0 M solution in diethyl ether and the resulting mixture stirred for 2 hours at 0 C. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 1 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy 2 methyl propan 2 ol as an amber gum 2.18 g 93 . LCMS R 3.00 min M H 322 324 326.

To a solution of 1 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy 2 methyl propan 2 ol 2.18 g 6.77 mmol in THF 150 mL was added sodium hydride 812 mg 20.31 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil and the resulting mixture stirred at RT for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated with cyclohexane affording 2 Chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 1.35 g 70 . LCMS R 3.03 min M H 286 288.

Step 3 5 7 7 Dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidin 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine

A mixture of 2 chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 285 mg 1.00 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 440 mg 1.99 mmol Pd PPh Cl 70 mg 0.10 mmol and sodium carbonate 3.3 mL 3.3 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 7 mL was degassed then heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was diluted with methanol and DCM and absorbed onto diatomaceous earth. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 4 methanol in DCM then SiO gradient 0 100 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording 104 as a white solid 245 mg 71 . LCMS R 3.28 min M H 345. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 8.90 2H s 7.00 2H s 3.97 2H s 3.70 8H s 1.35 6H s .

A microwave vial was charged with 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 ol 200 mg 1.00 mmol and 2 trifluoromethyl oxirane 429 L 5.01 mmol then sealed. The reaction mixture was heated at 95 C. for 48 hours before being cooled and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was dissolved into IMS 5 mL then treated with triethylamine 198 L 1.42 mmol and morpholine 83 L 0.95 mmol . The orange mixture was stirred for 18 hours at RT before being concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 20 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording 2 Chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 trifluoromethyl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 105 mg 32 . LCMS R 3.20 min M H 326 328.

Step 2 A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 trifluoromethyl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 105 mg 0.32 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 143 mg 0.64 mmol Pd PPh Cl 23 mg 0.03 mmol and sodium carbonate 1.06 mL 1.06 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.6 mL before the vessel was evacuated and back filled with argon 3 . The mixture was heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwaves. The reaction mixture was diluted with HO DCM methanol then absorbed onto diatomaceous earth before being purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 4 methanol in DCM then SiOthen gradient 0 90 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane followed by trituration in diethyl ether to give 105 as a white solid 60 mg 49 . LCMS R 3.52 min M H 385. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 8.92 2H s 7.08 2H s 5.51 5.41 1H m 4.53 4.41 2H m 3.78 3.65 8H m 

To a solution of 2 4 6 trichloro 5 methoxy pyrimidine 213 mg 1.00 mmol and 1 hydroxy cyclopropanecarboxylic acid methyl ester 139 mg 1.20 mmol in THF 4 mL was added sodium hydride 48 mg 1.20 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil at 78 C. The resulting mixture was allowed to warm to RT and stirred for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 1 2 6 Dichloro 5 methoxy pyrimidin 4 yloxy cyclopropanecarboxylic acid methyl ester as a white solid 300 mg quantitative . LCMS R 3.49 min M H 341 343 345.

To a solution of 1 2 6 dichloro 5 methoxy pyrimidin 4 yloxy cyclopropanecarboxylic acid methyl ester 293 mg 1.00 mmol in DCM 8 mL at 78 C. was added DIBAL H 4.00 mL 4.00 mmol 1M solution in THF and the resulting mixture warmed to 0 C. and stirred for 90 minutes. The reaction mixture was quenched with methanol followed by Rochelle s salt 1M aqueous solution and the mixture extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 1 2 6 Dichloro 5 methoxy pyrimidin 4 yloxy cyclopropyl methanol as an oil 220 mg 83 . LCMS R 2.86 min M H 195 197 199.

A mixture of 1 2 6 dichloro 5 methoxy pyrimidin 4 yloxy cyclopropyl methanol 800 mg 3.02 mmol and lithium chloride 600 mg 14.15 mmol in anhydrous DMF 3 mL was heated at 140 C. for 10 minutes using microwave irradiation then concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 5 methanol in DCM affording 2 4 Dichloro 6 1 hydroxymethyl cyclopropoxy pyrimidin 5 ol 300 mg 40 . LCMS R 2.52 min M H 249 251 253.

To a solution of 2 4 dichloro 6 1 hydroxymethyl cyclopropoxy pyrimidin 5 ol 135 mg 0.54 mmol and triphenylphosphine 180 mg 0.65 mmol in THF 8 mL was added DIAD 128 L 0.65 mmol and the mixture stirred at RT for 30 minutes then concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 25 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording 7 Cyclopropyl 2 4 dichloro 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 90 mg 72 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.30 2H s 1.36 1.29 2H m 1.01 0.95 2H m .

A mixture of 7 cyclopropyl 2 4 dichloro 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 93 mg 0.40 mmol morpholine 150 L 1.71 mmol and triethylamine 80 L 0.57 mmol in IMS 3 mL was heated at 140 C. for 35 minutes using microwave irradiation before being concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO 0 20 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording 2 Chloro 7 cyclopropyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 98 mg 87 . LCMS R 3.02 min M H 284 286.

Step 6 A mixture of 2 chloro 7 cyclopropyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 98 mg 0.34 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 144 mg 0.65 mmol Pd PPh Cl 25 mg 0.035 mmol and sodium carbonate 1.0 mL 1.0 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 4 mL was degassed then heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Gemini 5 m C18 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 5 98 affording 106 as a white solid 41 mg 35 . LCMS R 3.24 min M H 343. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.12 2H s 5.20 2H broad s 4.16 2H s 3.82 8H s 1.29 2H t J 6.89 Hz 0.88 2H t J 6.88 Hz .

To a solution of 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 ol 250 mg 1.25 mmol cyclopropyl hydroxy acetic acid methyl ester 245 mg 1.88 mmol and triphenylphosphine 493 mg 1.88 mmol in THF 12 mL was added DIAD 370 L 1.88 mmol dropwise. The resultant suspension was stirred for 18 hours before the addition of dioxane 10 mL and the reaction stirred for a further 6 hours. The heterogeneous mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 30 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording Cyclopropyl 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid methyl ester as a white solid 224 mg 32 . LCMS R 3.66 min M H 311 313 315.

To a suspension of cyclopropyl 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid methyl ester 224 mg 0.72 mmol in IMS 4 mL was added triethylamine 150 L 1.08 mmol followed by morpholine 63 L 0.72 mmol . The yellow solution was stirred for 2.5 hours at RT before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 20 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording Cyclopropyl 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid methyl ester as a colourless gum 233 mg 89 . H NMR CDCl 3.99 1H d J 9.54 Hz 4.03 3.83 4H m 3.80 3.75 4H m 3.78 3H s 1.32 1.21 1H m 0.70 0.57 2H m 0.52 0.45 1H m 0.33 0.26 1H m .

To a solution of cyclopropyl 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid methyl ester 233 mg 0.64 mmol in THF 6.5 mL at 78 C. under an atmosphere of nitrogen was added DIBAL H 1.93 mL 1.93 mmol 1.0M in toluene dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to RT and stirred for 20 hours before being quenched with Rochelle s salt 15 mL 1M aqueous solution . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL and the combined organic phases were dried NaSO then concentrated in vacuo to give 2 Cyclopropyl 2 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethanol as a colorless gum 215 mg quantitative . H NMR CDCl 3.94 3.88 2H m 3.87 3.82 4H m 3.79 3.73 4H m 3.48 3.41 1H m 1.11 0.99 1H m 0.60 0.51 1H m 0.51 0.42 1H m 0.19 0.11 1H m 0.03 0.05 1H m .

To a solution of 2 cyclopropyl 2 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethanol 215 mg 0.64 mmol in THF 10 mL was added sodium hydride 71 mg 1.93 mmol 65 dispersion in mineral oil and the reaction stirred for 2 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 15 mL and water 5 mL then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined organic phases were washed with brine 15 mL dried NaSO then concentrated in vacuo to give 2 Chloro 6 cyclopropyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 191 mg quantitative . LCMS R 3.18 min M H 298 300.

Step 5 A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 6 cyclopropyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 191 mg 0.64 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 283 mg 1.28 mmol Pd PPh Cl 45 mg 0.06 mmol sodium carbonate 2.11 mL 2.11 mmol 1M aqueous solution and acetonitrile 2.5 mL . The vessel was sealed then evacuated and refilled with argon 3 before being heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was filtered before being purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 4 methanol in DCM . The resultant residue was triturated with diethyl ether to give 107 as a white solid 21 mg 9 . LCMS R 3.54 min M H 357. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.89 2H s 7.00 2H s 4.53 1H dd J 11.48 2.34 Hz 4.22 1H dd J 11.50 7.87 Hz 3.75 3.67 8H m 3.65 3.58 1H m 1.01 0.99 1H m 0.63 0.55 2H m 0.51 0.42 2H m .

A mixture of 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 ol 400 mg 2.01 mmol and 2 tert butyl oxirane 3 mL was heated at 100 C. for 3 hours before being cooled and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was triturated in hot methanol and the insoluble material removed. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the resultant residue was purified by column chromatography SiO 0 15 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give 3 3 Dimethyl 1 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy butan 2 ol as a white solid 275 mg 52 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.28 1H dd J 9.38 2.19 Hz 4.00 1H t J 9.19 Hz 3.76 3.69 1H m 2.53 1H d J 3.48 Hz 0.95 9H s .

To a solution of 3 3 dimethyl 1 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy butan 2 ol 275 mg 1.05 mmol in IMS 3 mL was added triethylamine 291 L 2.09 mmol followed by morpholine 100 L 1.15 mmol and stirred at RT for 2 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate solution then extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO then concentrated in vacuo giving 1 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy 3 3 dimethyl butan 2 ol 255 mg 77 . LCMS R 3.57 min M H 350 352 354.

To a solution of 1 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy 3 3 dimethyl butan 2 ol 255 mg 0.73 mmol in THF 10 mL was added sodium hydride 87 mg 2.18 mmol 60 dispersion in mineral oil and the mixture was stirred at RT for 1.5 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution then extracted with ethyl acetate 2 . The combined organic layers were dried NaSO then passed through a pad of silica eluting with ethyl acetate. The relevant fractions were concentrated in vacuo giving 7 tert Butyl 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 250 mg 100 . LCMS R 3.64 min M H 314 316.

Step 4 A microwave vial was charged with 7 tert butyl 2 chloro 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 50 mg 0.16 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 70 mg 0.32 mmol and bis di tert butyl 4 dimethylaminophenyl phosphine dichloropalladium II 11 mg 0.02 mmol 10 mol then sealed. The vessel was evacuated and back filled with nitrogen before the addition of sodium carbonate 0.25 mL 0.25 mmol 1M aqueous solution and acetonitrile 0.75 mL . The mixture was heated at 150 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation before the mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue purified by column chromatography SiO 0 5 methanol in DCM then triturated with cyclohexane diethyl ether to give 108 as a white solid 13 mg 22 . LCMS R 4.04 min M H 373. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.14 2H s 5.25 2H s 4.44 1H dd J 11.08 1.92 Hz 3.99 1H dd J 8.97 1.89 Hz 3.91 3.69 9H m 1.12 9H s .

A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine from Example 104 50 mg 0.18 mmol 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenol 58 mg 0.26 mmol Pd PPh Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and sodium carbonate 0.5 mL 0.5 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.5 mL then evacuated and back filled with nitrogen before being heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by trituration with diethyl ether affording 109 as a white solid 38 mg 63 . LCMS R 4.13 min M H 344. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.87 7.82 2H m 7.26 1H t J 7.6 Hz 6.91 1H dd J 2.4 7.6 Hz 3.92 2H s 3.90 3.80 8H m 1.47 6H s .

A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine from Example 104 50 mg 0.18 mmol 2 methoxypyrimidin 5 ylboronic acid 42 mg 0.27 mmol Pd PPh Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and sodium carbonate 0.5 mL 0.5 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.5 mL then evacuated and back filled with nitrogen before being heated at 120 C. using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by trituration with diethyl ether affording 110 as a white solid 30 mg 17 . LCMS R 4.18 min M H 360. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.33 2H s 4.07 3H s 3.92 2H s 3.83 8H s 1.47 6H s 

A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine from Example 104 50 mg 0.18 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 ylamine 58 mg 0.26 mmol Pd PPh Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and sodium carbonate 0.5 mL 0.5 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.5 mL then evacuated and back filled with nitrogen before being heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Gemini 5 m C18 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 5 98 affording 111 as a white solid 32 mg 53 . LCMS R 2.73 min M H 344. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.01 1H d J 2.1 Hz 8.33 1H dd J 2.1 8.5 Hz 6.50 1H d J 8.5 Hz 4.61 2H broad s 3.89 2H s 3.86 3.77 8H m 1.43 6H s 

A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine from Example 104 50 mg 0.18 mmol N 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl acetamide 69 mg 0.26 mmol Pd PPh Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and sodium carbonate 0.5 mL 0.5 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.5 mL then was evacuated and back filled with nitrogen before being heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Gemini 5 m C18 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 5 98 affording 112 as a white solid 40 mg 59 . LCMS R 2.73 min M H 344. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.28 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.54 2H d J 8.8 Hz 7.22 1H broad s 3.90 2H s 3.87 3.78 8H m 2.19 3H s 1.46 6H s 

A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine from Example 104 50 mg 0.18 mmol methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 yl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 88 mg 0.26 mmol Pd PPh Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and sodium carbonate 0.5 mL 0.5 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.5 mL then evacuated and back filled with nitrogen before being heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Gemini 5 m C18 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 5 98 affording 113 as a white solid 20 mg 32 . LCMS R 2.79 min M H 358. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.04 1H d J 2.4 Hz 8.35 1H dd J 2.4 8.6 Hz 6.39 1H d J 8.6 Hz 4.84 1H broad s 3.89 2H s 3.85 3.76 8H m 2.97 3H d J 5.2 Hz 1.45 6H s 

A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine from Example 104 50 mg 0.18 mmol 3 methanesulfonylamino phenylboronic acid 57 mg 0.27 mmol Pd PPh Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and sodium carbonate 0.5 mL 0.5 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.5 mL then evacuated and back filled with nitrogen before being heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Gemini 5 m C18 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 5 98 affording 114 as a white solid 11 mg 15 . LCMS R 4.22 min M H 421. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.19 8.12 1H m 8.05 8.02 1H m 7.44 7.37 2H m 6.34 1H broad s 3.92 2H s 3.88 3.79 8H m 3.00 3H s 1.47 6H s 

A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 7 7 dimethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine from Example 104 50 mg 0.18 mmol 5 indolylboronic acid 42 mg 0.26 mmol Pd PPh Cl 12 mg 0.02 mmol and sodium carbonate 0.5 mL 0.5 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 1.5 mL then evacuated and back filled with nitrogen before being heated to 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Gemini 5 m C18 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 5 98 affording 115 as a white solid 11 mg 17 . LCMS R 4.37 min M H 367. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.67 1H s 8.28 8.20 2H m 7.39 1H d J 8.6 Hz 7.23 7.19 1H m 6.61 1H broad s 3.91 2H s 3.90 3.82 8H m 1.48 6H s 

To a solution of cyclopropyl hydroxy acetic acid methyl ester 1.00 g 7.68 mmol in DCM 9 mL was added tert butyldimethylsilyl chloride 1.27 g 8.45 mmol and imidazole 628 mg 9.22 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 65 hours before being quenched with water 10 mL and 1M HCl 5 mL . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 15 mL and the combined organic phases were washed with 1M HCl 10 mL brine 10 mL dried NaSO then concentrated in vacuo. This gave tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy cyclopropyl acetic acid methyl ester as an amber oil 1.66 g 88 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.81 1H d J 6.33 Hz 3.74 3H s 1.23 1.13 1H m 0.89 9H s 0.52 0.0.38 4H m 0.06 3H s 0.04 3H s .

To a solution of tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy cyclopropyl acetic acid methyl ester 1.66 g 6.79 mmol in DCM 27 mL at 78 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere was added DIBAL H 20.37 mL 20.37 mmol 1.0M in toluene dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2.5 hours then at 0 C. for 1 hour before being quenched with Rochelle s salt 30 mL 1M aqueous solution . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 30 mL before the combined organic phases were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo giving 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 cyclopropyl ethanol as a pale orange oil 764 mg 52 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 3.66 3.49 2H m 3.09 1H ddd J 7.96 6.40 3.80 Hz 1.96 1H dd J 7.43 5.46 Hz 0.91 9H s 0.91 0.82 1H m 0.57 0.43 2H m 0.34 0.24 1H m 0.23 0.14 1H m 0.11 3H s 0.07 3H s .

To a solution of 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 ol 250 mg 1.25 mmol 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 cyclopropyl ethanol 407 mg 1.88 mmol and triphenylphosphine 493 mg 1.88 mmol in THF 12 mL was added DIAD 370 L 1.88 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 18 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 30 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to give 5 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 cyclopropyl ethoxy 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidine as a viscous yellow oil 411 mg 83 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 4.14 1H dd J 8.83 6.02 Hz 3.99 1H dd J 8.82 4.21 Hz 3.60 3.53 1H m 1.13 1.03 1H m 0.89 9H s 0.56 0.50 2H m 0.46 0.28 2H m 0.10 3H s 0.07 3H s .

Step 4 4 5 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 cyclopropyl ethoxy 2 6 dichloro pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine

To a solution of 5 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 cyclopropyl ethoxy 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidine 411 mg 1.03 mmol in IMS 5 mL was added triethylamine 215 L 1.55 mmol followed by morpholine 94 L 1.08 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 4 hours before being concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 20 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane to afford 4 5 2 tert Butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 cyclopropyl ethoxy 2 6 dichloro pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine as a colorless gum 387 mg 84 . LCMS R 5.22 min M H 448 450 452.

To a solution of 4 5 2 tert butyl dimethyl silanyloxy 2 cyclopropyl ethoxy 2 6 dichloro pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine 386 mg 0.86 mmol in THF 10 mL was added TBAF 947 L 0.95 mmol 1.0 M solution in THF dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 3 hours before the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 20 mL . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL and then combined organic phases were washed with brine 10 mL dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 50 ethyl acetate giving 1 Cyclopropyl 2 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethanol as a colourless gum 196 mg 68 . LCMS R 3.04 min M H 334 336.

To a solution of 1 cyclopropyl 2 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethanol 196 mg 0.59 mmol in THF 10 mL was added sodium hydride 65 mg 1.77 mmol 65 dispersion in mineral oil and the reaction mixture stirred at RT for 4 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution 15 mL then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 mL . The combined organic phases were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo giving 2 Chloro 7 cyclopropyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine as a white solid 205 mg quantitative . LCMS R 3.19 min M H 298 300.

Step 7 A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 7 cyclopropyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 7 dihydro 1 4 dioxino 2 3 d pyrimidine 205 mg 0.49 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 324 mg 1.47 mmol Pd PPh Cl 51 mg 0.07 mmol sodium carbonate 2.41 mL 2.41 mmol 1M aqueous solution and acetonitrile 2.5 mL . The vessel was sealed then evacuated and back filled with argon 3 before being heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 4 methanol in DCM then triturated in diethyl ether pentane. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Gemini 5 m C18 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient methanol 10 98 affording 118 as an off white solid 4.5 mg 3 . LCMS R 3.52 min M H 357. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.91 2H s 7.01 2H s 4.40 1H dd J 11.38 2.41 Hz 4.01 1H dd J 11.41 7.52 Hz 3.80 3.60 9H m 1.11 0.98 1H m 0.69 0.41 4H m .

A mixture of 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 ol 300 mg 1.50 mmol 2 hydroxy ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 300 mg 1.71 mmol triphenylphosphine 455 mg 1.73 mmol and DIAD 339 L 1.73 mmol in dioxane 2.5 mL was stirred at RT for 1.5 hours then concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 50 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording Methyl 2 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 666 mg quantitative . LCMS R 3.09 min M Boc Na 279.

A mixture of methyl 2 2 4 6 trichloro pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 1.50 mmol morpholine 130 L 1.50 mmol and triethylamine 417 L 3.00 mmol in ethanol 5 mL was stirred at RT for 1 hour then partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The aqueous phase was extracted with further ethyl acetate and the combined organic extracts dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo affording 2 2 4 Dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester quantitative . LCMS R 3.89 min M CHCHNMeBoc H 250 252 254.

A mixture of 2 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy ethyl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 1.50 mmol and 4M HCl in methanol 10 mL was stirred at RT for 1.5 hours then concentrated in vacuo and azeotroped with ethanol. The resultant residue was dissolved in methanol 10 mL then treated with triethylamine 3.0 mL and the mixture stirred at RT for 30 minutes before being concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 50 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording 2 Chloro 8 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 8 dihydro 6H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 oxazine 368 mg 91 over 3 steps . LCMS R 2.94 min M H 271 273.

Step 4 A mixture of 2 chloro 8 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 7 8 dihydro 6H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 oxazine 120 mg 0.44 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 196 mg 0.88 mmol PdCldppf.DCM 36 mg 0.04 mmol and cesium carbonate 573 mg 1.76 mmol in dioxane 5 mL and water 0.5 mL was degassed and heated at 100 C. for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by column chromatography SiO gradient 0 5 methanol in DCM then triturated with diethyl ether affording 119 357 mg 24 . LCMS R 3.04 min M H 330. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 8.94 2H s 6.92 2H s 4.16 2H t J 4.37 Hz 3.67 4H t J 4.57 Hz 3.52 4H t J 4.56 Hz 3.48 2H t J 4.36 Hz 3.13 3H s .

A mixture of 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl pyrimidin 5 yloxy acetic acid ethyl ester 501 mg 1.49 mmol methylamine 1.0 mL 2.0 mmol 2 M in THF and triethylamine 250 L 1.79 mmol in IMS 10 mL was heated at 140 C. for 35 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting residue purified by column chromatography SiO 0 20 ethyl acetate in cyclohexane affording 2 Chloro 8 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 8H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 oxazin 7 one 159 mg 38 . LCMS R 2.93 min M H 285 287.

Step 2 A mixture of 2 chloro 8 methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl 8H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 oxazin 7 one 100 mg 0.35 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 116 mg 0.53 mmol Pd PPh Cl 25 mg 0.035 mmol and sodium carbonate 1.0 mL 1.0 mmol 1M aqueous solution in acetonitrile 4 mL was degassed then heated at 120 C. for 30 minutes using microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was loaded onto an Isolute SCX 2 cartridge which was washed with methanol and the product eluted with 2M ammonia in methanol. The basic fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC Phenomenex Gemini 5 m C18 0.1 HCOH in water on a gradient of acetonitrile 5 98 affording 120 as a white solid 86 mg 71 . LCMS R 3.04 min M H 344. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.14 2H s 5.25 2H broad s 4.62 2H s 3.81 8H s 3.49 3H s .

Binding Assays Initial polarization experiments were performed on an Analyst HT 96 384 Molecular Devices Corp Sunnyvale Calif. . Samples for fluorescence polarization affinity measurements were prepared by addition of 1 3 serial dilutions of p110 alpha PI3K Upstate Cell Signaling Solutions Charlottesville Va. starting at a final concentration of 20 ug mL in polarization buffer 10 mM tris pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 0.05 Chaps and 1 mM DTT to 10 mM PIP Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. final concentration. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume Proxiplates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the protein concentration and the ECvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation using KaleidaGraph software Synergy software Reading Pa. . This experiment also establishes the appropriate protein concentration to use in subsequent competition experiments with inhibitors.

Inhibitor ICvalues were determined by addition of the 0.04 mg mL p110 alpha PI3K final concentration combined with PIP 10 mM final concentration to wells containing 1 3 serial dilutions of the antagonists in a final concentration of 25 mM ATP Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass. in the polarization buffer. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume PROXIPLATES PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the antagonist concentration and the ICvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation in Assay Explorer software MDL San Ramon Calif. .

Alternatively inhibition of PI3K was determined in a radiometric assay using purified recombinant enzyme and ATP at a concentration of 1 M. The Formula I compound was serially diluted in 100 DMSO. The kinase reaction was incubated for 1 hr at room temperature and the reaction was terminated by the addition of PBS. ICvalues were subsequently determined using sigmoidal dose response curve fit variable slope .

Efficacy of Formula I compounds was measured by a cell proliferation assay employing the following protocol Promega Corp. Technical Bulletin TB288 Mendoza et al 2002 Cancer Res. 62 5485 5488 

1. An aliquot of 100 l of cell culture containing about 10cells PC3 prostate cancer Detroit562 pharynx carcinoma or MDAMB361.1 breast cancer in medium was deposited in each well of a 384 well opaque walled plate.

5. A volume of CellTiter Glo Reagent equal to the volume of cell culture medium present in each well was added.

Alternatively cells were seeded at optimal density in a 96 well plate and incubated for 4 days in the presence of test compound. Alamar Blue was subsequently added to the assay medium and cells were incubated for 6 hr before reading at 544 nm excitation 590 nm emission. ECvalues were calculated using a sigmoidal dose response curve fit. The term ECrefers to the half maximal effective concentration and is the concentration at which a drug induces a response halfway between the baseline and maximum after some specified exposure time. It is commonly used as a measure of drug potency.

The anti proliferative effects of Formula I exemplary compounds were measured by the CellTiter Glo Assay against various tumor cell lines including the following 

Caco 2 cells are seeded onto Millipore Multiscreen plates at 1 10cells cm and cultured for 20 days. Assessment of compound permeability is subsequently conducted. The compounds are applied to the apical surface A of cell monolayers and compound permeation into the basolateral B compartment is measured. This is performed in the reverse direction B A to investigate active transport. A permeability coefficient value P for each compound a measure of the rate of permeation of the compound across the membrane is calculated. Compounds are grouped into low P 1.0 10cm s absorption potential based on comparison with control compounds with established human absorption.

For assessment of a compound s ability to undergo active efflux the ratio of basolateral B to apical A transport compared with A to B was determined. Values of B A A B 1.0 indicate the occurrence of active cellular efflux.

Suspensions of cryopreserved human hepatocytes are used. Incubations are performed at compound concentration of 1 mM or 3 M at a cell density of 0.5 10viable cells mL. The final DMSO concentration in the incubation is about 0.25 . Control incubations are also performed in the absence of cells to reveal any non enzymatic degradation. Duplicate samples 50 L are removed from the incubation mixture at 0 5 10 20 40 and 60 minutes control sample at 60 minutes only and added to methanol containing internal standard 100 L to terminate the reaction. Tolbutamide 7 hydroxycoumarin and testosterone may be used as control compounds. Samples are centrifuged and the supernatants at each time point pooled for analysis by LC MSMS. From a plot of ln peak area ratio parent compound peak area internal standard peak area against time intrinsic clearance C is calculated as follows CL l min million cells V k where k is the elimination rate constant obtained from the gradient of ln concentration plotted against time V is a volume term derived from the incubation volume and is expressed as uL 10cells.

Formula I compounds may be screened against CYP450 targets 1A2 2C9 2C19 2D6 3A4 at about 10 concentrations in duplicate with a top concentration of about 100 M one hundred micromolar . Standard inhibitors furafylline sulfaphenazole tranylcypromine quinidine ketoconazole may be used as controls. Plates may be read using a BMG LabTechnologies PolarStar in fluorescence mode.

Freshly isolated human hepatocytes from a single donor may be cultured for about 48 hr prior to addition of Formula I compound at three concentrations and incubated for 72 hr. Probe substrates for CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are added for 30 minutes and 1 hr before the end of the incubation. At 72 hr cells and media are removed and the extent of metabolism of each probe substrate quantified by LC MS MS. The experiment is controlled by using inducers of the individual P450s incubated at one concentration in triplicate.

Solutions of Formula I compound 5 m five micromolar 0.5 final DMSO concentration are prepared in buffer and 10 plasma v v in buffer . A 96 well HT dialysis plate is assembled so that each well is divided in two by a semi permeable cellulose membrane. The buffer solution is added to one side of the membrane and the plasma solution to the other side incubations are then conducted at 37 C. over 2 hr in triplicate. The cells are subsequently emptied and the solutions for each batch of compounds are combined into two groups plasma free and plasma containing then analyzed by LC MSMS using two sets of calibration standards for plasma free 6 points and plasma containing solutions 7 points . The fraction unbound value for the compound is calculated.

Formula I compounds are evaluated for ability to modulate rubidium efflux from HEK 294 cells stably expressing hERG potassium channels using established flux methodology. Cells are prepared in medium containing RbCl plated into 96 well plates and grown overnight to form monolayers. The efflux experiment is initiated by aspirating the media and washing each well with 3 100 L of pre incubation buffer containing low K at room temperature. Following the final aspiration 50 L of working stock 2 compound is added to each well and incubated at room temperature for 10 minutes. Stimulation buffer 50 L containing high K is then added to each well giving the final test compound concentrations. Cell plates are then incubated at room temperature for a further 10 minutes. Supernatant 80 L from each well is then transferred to equivalent wells of a 96 well plate and analyzed via atomic emission spectroscopy. The compound is screened as 10 pt duplicate ICcurves n 2 from a top concentration of 100 M.

NCR nude mice Taconic Farms Ind. were inoculated subcutaneously in the right lateral thorax with 5 million U 87 MG Merchant an in house variant derived from U 87 MG cells from ATCC Manassas Va. cells in HBSS Matrigel 1 1 v v . Mice bearing tumor xenografts were dosed daily orally by gavage for 

Animal body weights were measured using an Adventurer Pro AV812 scale Ohaus Corporation Pine Brook N.J. . Graphs were generated using GraphPad Prism Version 5.0c. Percent weight change was calculated using formula individual percent weight change new weight initial weight 1 100.

Mice whose tumor volume exceeded 2000 mmor whose body weight loss exceeded 20 of their starting weight were euthanized according to regulatory guidance.

 TGI 1 AUC Day AUC Day 100 where AUC Day is the area under the fitted tumor growth curve on the natural scale divided by the number of study days. Log 2 tumor volume growth traces were fitted to each dose group with restricted cubic splines for the fixed time and dose effect in each group. Fitting was done via a linear mixed effects model using the R package nlme version 3.1 97 11 in R version 2.12.0 R Development Core Team 2008 R Foundation for Statistical Computing Vienna Austria .

A partial response PR was defined as a 50 reduction in starting tumor volume that never became a complete response CR at any day of the study. CR was defined as a 100 reduction in starting tumor volume at any day of the study. Study tumor incidence STI reflected the number of animals in a group with a measureable tumor for their last tumor volume measurement.

Linear mixed effect analysis was also employed to model the percent change in body weight over time and in response to dose.

In a 6 well tissue culture plate cells were seeded at 5 10cells per well overnight. Cells were treated with an ECof the Formula I compound. Following treatment cells were washed once with cold PBS and lysed in 1 Cell Extraction Buffer from Biosource Carlsbad Calif. supplemented with protease inhibitors Roche Mannheim Germany 1 mM PMSF and Phosphatase Inhibitor Cocktails 1 and 2 from Sigma St. Louis Mo. . Determination of protein concentration was performed using the Pierce BCA Protein Assay Kit Rockford Ill. . Levels of pAkt Ser and total Akt were assessed using bead kits from Biosource Carlsbad Calif. and the Luminex Bio Plex system Bio Rad Hercules Calif. .

Madin Darby canine kidney MDCK cells heterologously expressing either human Pgp or mouse Bcrp1 were used to determine whether the compounds were substrate of these transporters and thus assess the potential for blood brain barrier permeation. MDR1 MDCKI cells were licensed from the NCI National Cancer Institute Bethesda Md. while Bcrp1 MDCKII cells were obtained from the Netherlands Cancer Institutes Amsterdam The Netherlands . Cells were seeded on 24 well Millipore filter plates 4 days prior to use polyester membrane 1 M pore size Millipore Billerica Mass. at a seeding density of 1.3 10cells mL. Compounds were tested at 5 M in the apical to basolateral A B and basolateral to apical B A directions. The compounds were dissolved in transport buffer consisting of Hank s balanced salt solution HBSS with 10 mM HEPES Invitrogen Corporation Grand Island N.Y. . Lucifer Yellow Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. was used as the paracellular marker. The apparent permeability P in the A B and B A directions was calculated after a 2 hour incubation using the following equation 1 1

where dQ dt is the rate of compound appearance in the receiver compartment Cis the concentration in the donor compartment and A is the surface area of the insert. The Efflux Ratio defined as P P was used to assess the extent of active efflux undergone by the compounds with the transporter tested P glycoprotein or bcrp1 . The compounds were analyzed by LC MS MS.

Brain protein binding in rats was measured for Formula I exemplary compounds including the following 

Brains were collected at 1 and 6 hours post dose from 3 different animals at each time point rinsed with ice cold saline weighed and store at 80 C. until analysis. For compound quantitation mouse brains were homogenized in 3 volumes of water. The homogenates were extracted by protein precipitation with acetonitrile containing the internal standard. LC MS MS analysis was conducted. Brain homogenates concentrations were converted to brain concentrations for the calculations of brain to plasma ratios.

For analysis of PI3K pathway modulation cell extraction buffer Invitrogen Camarillo Calif. containing 10 mM Tris pH 7.4 100 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA 1 mM EGTA 1 mM NaF 20 mM NaPO 2 mM NaVO 1 Triton X 100 10 glycerol 0.1 SDS and 0.5 deoxycholate was supplemented with phosphatase protease inhibitors Sigma St. Louis Mo. and 1 mM PMSF and added to frozen brain biopsies. Brains collected at 1 and 6 hrs post dose were homogenized with a small pestle Konte Glass Company Vineland N.J. sonicated briefly on ice and centrifuged at 20 000 g for 20 minutes at 4 C. Protein concentration was determined using BCA protein assay Pierce Rockford Ill. . Proteins were separated by electrophoresis and transferred to NuPage nitrocellulose membranes Invitrogen Camarillo Calif. . Licor Odyssey Infrared detection system Licor Lincoln Nebr. was used to assess and quantify protein expression. PI3K pathway markers were evaluated by immunoblotting using antibodies against pAktand total Akt Invitrogen Camarillo Calif. and Cell Signaling Danvers Mass. .

CD 1 Nude mice Charles River Laboratories Hollister Calif. were inoculated intracranially under stereotactic surgery with GS 2 human glioblastoma muliforme cells engineered in house to express luciferase in HBSS. Mice with confirmed brain xenografts by magnetic resonance imaging MRI at four weeks post cell inoculation were dosed once daily orally by gavage for 28 days with drug or vehicle after being separated into groups of similarly sized tumors. MRI 4.7T Varian Inc. Palo Alto Calif. was repeated at the end of the 28 day dosing period to assess response to treatment.

Mouse body weights were recorded at least twice weekly and the mice were observed daily. Animal body weights were measured using an Adventurer Pro AV812 scale Ohaus Corporation Pine Brook N.J. . Graphs were generated using GraphPad Prism Version 5.0c. Percent weight change was calculated using formula individual percent weight change new weight initial weight 1 100. Mice whose body weight loss exceeded 20 of their starting weight were euthanized according to regulatory guidance.

The tumor volume change was modeled as linear over the two times at which each animal was imaged. A linear mixed effects model was fitted to these data using the R package nlme version 3.1 97 in R version 2.12.0 R Development Core Team 2010 R Foundation for Statistical Computing Vienna Austria . A mixed effect model takes into account repeated measures on individual mice over time and handles the intra mouse correlation appropriately. Linear mixed effect analysis was also employed to model the percent change in body weight over time.

Plasma and brain samples were collected at 2 and 8 hours post administration of the final treatment for pharmacokinetic PK pharmacodynamic PD and or immunohistochemical IHC analysis.

NCR nude mice Taconic Farms Ind. were inoculated subcutaneously in the right lateral thorax with 5 million U 87 MG Merchant an in house variant derived from U 87 MG cells from ATCC Manassas Va. cells in HBSS Matrigel BD Biosciences 1 1 v v . Mice bearing tumor xenografts 600 mmwere dosed once with drug or vehicle after being separated into groups of similarly sized tumors. Plasma subcutaneous tumor xenograft skeletal muscle and brain samples were collected at 1 4 12 and 24 hours post treatment administration for PK PD and or IHC analysis.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding the descriptions and examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. The disclosures of all patent and scientific literature cited herein are expressly incorporated in their entirety by reference.

