---

title: Cannon breechblock insert assembly
abstract: A sliding breechblock for a cannon includes a translatable, removable insert assembly that contains electrical firing pin and data link modules. The removable insert assembly is translatable in a direction normal to the central longitudinal axis of the barrel thereby enabling removal of the insert assembly without removing the breechblock from the breech ring. Mating portions formed on the breechblock and on the insert assembly prevent displacement of the insert assembly with respect to the breechblock in the direction along the central longitudinal axis of the barrel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08857308&OS=08857308&RS=08857308
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08857308
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130221
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The invention relates in general to munitions and in particular to firing and data link interconnections for cannon fired munitions.

Internally controlled or smart munitions have been used for over twenty five years. Smart munitions launched by cannons have been in development for about five years. Cannon launched smart munitions may be for example 105 mm cartridge case rounds 120 mm metal stub base consumable case rounds or other rounds fitted with contact rings on their breechblock contacting surfaces. In cannons the traditional firing circuit and breechblock geometry to support the rear quarter access of the firing circuit is over fifty years old.

Cannon launched rounds may be electrically fired. That is an electrical contact on the breechblock of the cannon makes contact with the firing plug on the primer of the round. An electrical current is applied to the primer creating a spark to ignite the black powder which ignites the propellant located in the round. A data link for example a Universal Munition Data Link UMDL can support bi directional communication and transmission of power to some cannon launched rounds using a set of two pins. Known cannons that launch smart munitions may use UMDL pins and circuits that are packaged separately and independent of the legacy firing circuit. Legacy firing circuits require breechblocks with relatively complex machined geometry. This geometry may include deeply drilled tight tolerance 

Known smart munitions such as air launched missiles and bombs receive fire control instructions via an electrical cable with a quick disconnect interconnection that disconnects when the smart munition is launched. The electrical cable data link supports electrical power transmission and bi directional communications for the smart round. However the design of both smart rounds and cannons do not support the quick disconnect electrical cable type of interface. It may be possible to wirelessly communicate between the cannon and a smart round but there are major disadvantages such as external signal jamming signal attenuation due to the large mass of the metal cannon surrounding the smart round and the inability to support the power needs of the smart munition.

Traditional cannon firing circuits utilize complicated links and cams to actuate the firing pin that is in contact with the firing plug on the primer of a round. These firing circuits require extensive slots and cuts in the breechblock which reduce the structural integrity and fatigue life of the breechblock and introduce numerous tightly toleranced linkage components. If a method similar to the traditional firing circuit were used for a cannon data link device the resulting circuit would add many slots and cuts to the breechblock. As a result the breechblock may not function as a part of the pressure vessel of the cannon. In addition maintenance of the firing circuit especially the firing pin is a frequently performed procedure. In known firing circuits there is no easy access to the firing pin cavity in the front of the breechblock.

One aspect of the invention is a breech assembly for a cannon. The cannon has a barrel with a central longitudinal axis and a breech ring fixed to one end of the barrel. The breech assembly includes a sliding breechblock disposed in the breech ring and translatable in the breech ring in a direction normal to the central longitudinal axis of the barrel. An insert assembly is disposed on a muzzle side of the breechblock and translatable in the breechblock in the direction normal to the central longitudinal axis.

The insert assembly includes a muzzle side a breech side and at least one electrical pin module. The insert assembly is removable from the breechblock without removing the breechblock from the breech ring. Mating portions formed on the breechblock and on the insert assembly prevent displacement of the insert assembly with respect to the breechblock in a direction along the central longitudinal axis of the barrel. The mating portions may include slots and rails that are parallel to the direction normal to the central longitudinal axis. The slots may be formed in the breechblock and the rails may be formed on the insert assembly.

The at least one electrical pin module may include a firing pin module and at least one data link module. In an installed position of the insert assembly in the breechblock the firing pin module may be substantially coaxial with the central longitudinal axis of the barrel. The at least one electrical pin module may include a forward contact biased outwardly through the muzzle side of the insert assembly and a corresponding rear contact biased outwardly through the breech side of the insert assembly. The at least one electrical pin module may include a double acting spring disposed between the forward and rear contacts. The insert assembly may include a removable cover on the breech side and the rear contacts may penetrate the removable cover.

At least one threaded fastener may fix the insert assembly in the breechblock. The at least one threaded fastener may displace the insert assembly from the breechblock when the fastener is rotated opposite to the fixing direction.

Electrical contacts on the muzzle side of the breechblock may electrically connect with the firing pin module and the at least one data link module in an installed position of the insert assembly in the breechblock. A flexible circuit board may contain the electrical contacts.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A novel cannon breechblock insert assembly uniquely packages the firing circuitry and data link circuitry in an easily removable block for maintenance cleaning and replacement. The data link circuitry may include for example a Universal Munition Data Link UMDL . Compared to conventional breechblocks the novel breechblock 1 has reduced stress inducing machined features thereby increasing the fatigue life of the breechblock 2 has fewer deep tight tolerance holes thereby reducing the machining time and the cost of manufacturing the breechblock 3 enables removal of the breechblock insert assembly in either the open or closed position of the breechblock 4 enables quicker access to the firing pin and data link pins for maintenance and replacement procedures 5 includes hardened pin tips that are in continuous contact with both the base of the cannon round and the breechblock using a spring loaded translation 6 accommodates various mechanisms to keep the cannon round from falling back out of the cannon tube chamber after loading and 7 is expandable so that additional data link circuits may be added for future munition upgrades.

The novel breechblock insert assembly bundles together a data link device for example a UMDL and a cannon s firing circuits into an easily removable part. The UMDL facilitates data and power transmission with the smart munition using the same set of two pins. The firing circuit allows for power to be applied to the primer of the smart munition. The insert assembly may be used for different caliber cannons breechblock configurations and munition requirements.

Insert assembly includes a main body . Body is generally solid and is made of for example a heat treated steel alloy. A pair of projections or ears may extend from body . Threaded fasteners may extend through ears and into threaded openings on shoulders of breechblock to secure insert assembly to breechblock . Fasteners may include flanges . To loosen insert assembly from breechblock fasteners may be rotated opposite the tightening direction so that flanges bear on undersides of ears and pull insert assembly upward along axis C.

Mating portions are formed on breechblock and on insert assembly to prevent displacement of insert assembly with respect to breechblock in a direction along central longitudinal axis A. In the embodiment shown the mating portions on insert assembly are opposing rails and the mating portions on breechblock are opposing slots . When insert assembly is installed in breechblock as in rails slide into and nest in slots thereby preventing movement of insert assembly in breechblock along axis A. Slots and rails are parallel to axes B and C.

If cannon uses an autoloader a cartridge catch mechanism may be included to prevent loaded rounds from backing out of barrel in elevated positions.

The interior of insert assembly includes at least one electrical pin module. In the embodiment of three electric pin modules are shown in exploded view. The three modules are a firing pin module and two data link modules . The components of firing pin module are shown in detail in and include a forward insulator a forward firing pin contact a double acting spring a rear firing pin contact and a rear insulator . The components of data link modules are shown in detail in and include a forward insulator a forward data link contact a double acting spring a rear data link contact and a rear insulator . Firing pin and data link modules may be accessed by removing insert assembly from breechblock and then removing rear cover from insert assembly .

Firing pin module transfers electrical power from a contact in breechblock to the primer of a round loaded in barrel to thereby ignite the primer and fire the round. Thus forward firing pin contact must be located in insert assembly so that contact contacts the primer of the round that has been loaded in barrel . Forward firing pin contact is substantially coaxial with central longitudinal axis A of barrel . As seen in forward firing pin contact is biased forward by spring of through forward side of insert assembly .

Data link modules allow for data and power transmission from contacts in breechblock to contacts on the base of a round loaded in barrel . The contacts on the base of the round may be in the form of for example concentric rings. The electrical power and electrical data signals transferred through data link modules may be required for a round that is a smart munition. As seen in forward data link contacts are biased forward by spring of through muzzle side of insert assembly .

As shown in breechblock includes electrical contacts that interconnect with firing pin module and data link modules when insert assembly is in the installed position of . Contacts may be part of a flexible circuit board . Firing circuit contact interconnects with rear firing pin contact of firing pin module . Rear firing pin contact is biased through rear cover by spring . Data link contacts interconnect with rear data link contacts of data link modules . Rear data link contacts are biased through rear cover by spring . The electrical wiring from contacts may be routed through breechblock in any convenient manner.

Insert assembly includes muzzle and breech sides and opposing rails for mating with opposing slots in breechblock . The mating rails and slots prevent movement of insert assembly along the central longitudinal axis A. Insert assembly includes a main body . A firing pin module and data link modules are disposed in the interior of insert assembly and may be accessed by removing rear cover . As shown in and forward firing pin contact and forward data link contacts are biased through muzzle side of insert assembly . As shown in rear firing pin contact and rear data link contacts are biased through rear cover of insert assembly . In the installed position of insert assembly shown in rear firing pin contact contacts firing circuit contact on breechblock and rear data link contacts contact data link contacts on breechblock .

The novel cannon breechblock insert assembly provides an easily accessible and compact package for both the firing contact and the data link contacts needed to fire smart munitions from cannons. The breechblock insert assembly enables the breechblock to be manufactured with many less stress inducing machined features and fewer deep tight tolerance holes. Unlike known breechblocks the novel insert assembly with the firing pin and data link modules contained therein may be removed in either the open or closed position of the breechblock for faster and more efficient access for maintenance and replacement.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

