---

title: Systems and method for integration of business analytics and business networking
abstract: Systems and methods to provide social analytics information are disclosed. An exemplary system may include a database and a server coupled to the database. The server may include a business analytics module configured to receive data related to a business and generate, based on the received data, a set of business analytics information, and store the business analytics information in the database. The server further may include an interactive display module configured to generate an interactive object based on the business analytics information, provide controlled access to the interactive object to a first user of a predefined group of users, and provide a display of the interactive object to a second user of the predefined group of users. The interactive display module may be further configured to update, responsive to an input from the first user, the interactive object so as to generate an updated interactive object, and provide, responsive to the updating, a display of the updated interactive object to the second user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09395883&OS=09395883&RS=09395883
owner: Anametrix, Inc.
number: 09395883
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 598 438 filed Aug. 29 2012 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 528 618 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHOD FOR INTEGRATION OF BUSINESS ANALYTICS AND BUSINESS NETWORKING filed Aug. 29 2011 the contents of both of which are incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to systems and methods for integrating business analytics and analysis processing and presentation of associated information within business or social networks.

With the growth of the Internet and World Wide Web Web along with high performance centralized data collection and processing systems the ability to provide distributed data and information as well as collect process and analyze such data has grown dramatically. Technologies such as Business Analytics BA and Web Analytics WA allow businesses to collect data and information from web and other sources e.g. broadcast print media etc. and analyze and present associated information to business users.

Social Media SM facilitates functions such as social networking content sharing blogs wikis and other information sharing. Websites such as Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Flickr and the like have made social media ubiquitous.

Exemplary aspects of the invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other aspects are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

In one aspect the present disclosure relates to a method of providing social analytics information. The method includes generating responsive to a first input from a first user of a predefined group of users an interactive object and providing the interactive object to a second user of the predefined group of users. The method further includes receiving comments from the second user and providing the comments to the first user.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to an alternative method for providing social analytics information. The alternative method includes generating an interactive object based on a set of business analytics data and providing controlled access to the interactive object to a first user of a predefined group of users. The alternative method further includes providing a display of the interactive object to a second user of the predefined group of users updating responsive to an input from the first user the interactive object so as to generate an updated interactive object and providing responsive to the updating a display of the updated interactive object to the second user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to a system for providing social analytics information. The system includes a database and a server coupled to the database. The server includes a business analytics module configured to receive data related to a business and generate based on the received data a set of business analytics information and store the business analytics information in the database. The server further includes an interactive display module configured to generate an interactive object based on the business analytics information provide controlled access to the interactive object to a first user of a predefined group of users and provide a display of the interactive object to a second user of the predefined group of users. The interactive display module is further configured to update responsive to an input from the first user the interactive object so as to generate an updated interactive object and provide responsive to the updating a display of the updated interactive object to the second user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium including codes executable by a processor to generate an interactive object based on a set of business analytics data provide controlled access to the interactive object to a first user of a predefined group of users and provide a display of the interactive object to a second user of the predefined group of users. The computer readable medium further includes codes executable by the processor to update responsive to an input from the first user the interactive object so as to generate an updated interactive object and provide responsive to the updating a display of the updated interactive object to the second user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to an alternative method for providing social analytics information. The alternative method includes receiving from a server system information defining a user interface configured to allow editing of one of a plurality of interactive objects by a first user of a group of predefined users displaying the received user interface including displaying information associated with a plurality of interactive objects available for editing and receiving from a first user of the group of predefined users a selection of a first interactive object of the plurality of interactive objects. The alternative method further includes sending information associated with the selection of a first interactive object to the server system displaying on the user interface the first interactive object for editing by the first user receiving an editing input from the first user to edit the first interactive object providing the editing input to the server system for use in generating an updated first interactive object based on the editing input and receiving from a second user of the group of predefined users information associated with the updated first interactive object.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to an alternative system for providing social analytics information. The alternative system includes a display a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to receive from a server system information defining a user interface configured to allow editing of one of a plurality of interactive objects render the received user interface on the display including displaying information associated with a plurality of interactive objects available for editing receive from a first user a selection of a first interactive object of the plurality of interactive objects and send information associated with the selection of a first interactive object to the server system. The processor is further configured to display the first interactive object for editing by the first user on the display receive an editing input from the first user to edit the first interactive object provide the editing input to the server system for use in generating an updated first interactive object based on the editing input and receive from a second user of the plurality of users information associated with the updated first interactive object.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to an alternative computer program product comprising a computer readable medium including codes executable by a processor. The codes cause the processor to receive from a server system information defining a user interface configured to allow editing of one of a plurality of interactive objects by a first user of a group of predefined users display the received user interface including displaying information associated with a plurality of interactive objects available for editing receive from a first user of the group of predefined users a selection of a first interactive object of the plurality of interactive objects send information associated with the selection of a first interactive object to the server system display on the user interface the first interactive object for editing by the first user receive an editing input from the first user to edit the first interactive object provide the editing input to the server system for use in generating an updated first interactive object based on the editing input and receive from a second user of the group of predefined users information associated with the updated first interactive object.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to yet another alternative system for providing social analytics information. This alternative system includes display means memory means and means for receiving from a server system information defining a user interface configured to allow editing of one of a plurality of interactive objects. The alternative system further includes means for rendering the received user interface on the display including displaying information associated with a plurality of interactive objects available for editing means for receiving from a first user a selection of a first interactive object of the plurality of interactive objects means for sending information associated with the selection of a first interactive object to the server system means for displaying the first interactive object for editing by the first user on the display and means for receiving an editing input from the first user to edit the first interactive object. The alternative system further includes means for providing the editing input to the server system for use in generating an updated first interactive object based on the editing input and means for receiving from a second user of the plurality of users information associated with the updated first interactive object.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to yet another alternative method for providing social analytics information. This alternative method includes receiving from a server system information defining a user interface configured to allow display of a plurality of interactive objects displaying the received user interface including displaying information associated with an interactive object being edited by a first user of a predefined group of users receiving information defining an update to the interactive object based on the editing of the interactive object by the first user and displaying an update of the interactive object.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another alternative system for providing social analytics information. This alternative system includes a display a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to receive from a server system information defining a user interface configured to allow display of a plurality of interactive objects render the received user interface on the display including displaying information associated with an interactive object being edited by a first user of a predefined group of users receive information defining an update to the interactive object based on the editing of the interactive object by the first user and display an update of the interactive object on the display.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another computer program product comprising a computer readable medium including codes executable by a processor. The codes cause the processor to receive from a server system information defining a user interface configured to allow display of a plurality of interactive objects display the received user interface including displaying information associated with an interactive object being edited by a first user of a predefined group of users receive information defining an update to the interactive object based on the editing of the interactive object by the first user and display an update of the interactive object.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to an alternative system for providing social analytics information. The system of this aspect includes display means memory means means for receiving from a server system information defining a user interface configured to allow display of a plurality of interactive objects and means for rendering the received user interface on the display including displaying information associated with an interactive object being edited by a first user of a predefined group of users. The system of this aspect further includes means for receiving information defining an update to the interactive object based on the editing of the interactive object by the first user and means for displaying an update of the interactive object on the display.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to yet another alternative method for providing social analytics information. The alternative method of this aspect includes providing to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a menu option to subscribe to one or more alerts that may be provided to a plurality of users of the social analytics system receiving from the first user a request to subscribe to the alert and providing responsive to conditions for triggering the alert alert information to a flow associated with the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another alternative system for providing social analytics information. The system of this aspect includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to provide to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a menu option to subscribe to one or more alerts that may be provided to a plurality of users of the social analytics system receive from the first user a request to subscribe to the alert and provide responsive to conditions for triggering the alert alert information to a flow associated with the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another computer program product comprising a computer readable medium including codes executable by a processor. The codes cause the processor to provide to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a menu option to subscribe to one or more alerts that may be provided to a plurality of users of the social analytics system receive from the first user a request to subscribe to the alert and provide responsive to conditions for triggering the alert alert information to a flow associated with the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another alternative system for providing social analytics information. The system of this aspect includes memory means means for providing to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a menu option to subscribe to one or more alerts that may be provided to a plurality of users of the social analytics system means for receiving from the first user a request to subscribe to the alert and means for providing responsive to conditions for triggering the alert alert information to a flow associated with the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to an alternative system for providing social analytics information. The alternative system includes database means for storing business analytics information means for receiving data related to a business and generating based on the received data a set of business analytics information and means for storing the business analytics information in the database. The alternative system further includes means for generating an interactive object based on the business analytics information means for providing controlled access to the interactive object to a first user of a predefined group of users and means for providing a display of the interactive object to a second user of the predefined group of users. The alternative system further includes means for updating responsive to an input from the first user the interactive object so as to generate an updated interactive object and means for providing responsive to the updating a display of the updated interactive object to the second user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to yet another method for providing social analytics information. The method of this aspect includes providing to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a search bar for receiving natural language queries receiving from the first user a natural language query related to business analytics information processing the natural language query in an natural language processing NLP module and providing a query result to the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another system for providing social analytics information. The system of this aspect includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to provide to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a search bar for receiving natural language queries receive from the first user a natural language query related to business analytics information process the natural language query in an natural language processing NLP module and provide a query result to the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another computer program product comprising a computer readable medium including codes executable by a processor. The codes cause the processor to provide to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a search bar for receiving natural language queries receive from the first user a natural language query related to business analytics information process the natural language query in an natural language processing NLP module and provide a query result to the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another system for providing social analytics information. The system of this aspect includes memory means means for providing to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a search bar for receiving natural language queries means for receiving from the first user a natural language query related to business analytics information means for processing the natural language query in an natural language processing NLP module and means for providing a query result to the first user.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

Business Analytics is a rapidly growing technology field related to providing businesses with business users with data and information regarding this business. Business analytics tools can be used by businesses to allow them to better understand the mechanics and details of their business at both the micro and macro levels.

Typical business analytics tools and applications include performing rigorous statistical and quantitative analyses of business data which is typically done in a continuous iterative fashion. Results can be used by businesses to provide insights into a company s performance that may otherwise be unapparent. For example business analytics solutions can identify trends provide alerts and make predictions. Some applications of business analytics and associated business analytics systems and processing are described in for example U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 442 467 filed Feb. 14 2011 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR INTERACTIVE DATA MANAGEMENT USING AN APPLICATION PLUG IN in U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 396 362 filed Feb. 14 2012 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR INTERACTIVE DATA MANAGEMENT USING AN APPLICATION PLUG IN in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 477 993 filed Apr. 21 2011 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PREDICTIVE ALERTING and in U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 453 926 filed Apr. 23 2012 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PREDICTIVE ALERTING denoted collectively herein as the Related Applications . The content of each of these Related Applications is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A field closely related to Business Analytics is Web Analytics WA which provides statistical analysis of a company s web traffic and related information.

This disclosure relates generally to systems and methods for integrating business analytics and analysis processing and presentation of associated information within business or social networks. Such integrated systems and associated applications may be denoted as Social Analytics SA systems to describe seamlessly blended Social or Business Media with Business Analytics.

These integrated systems may provide various advantages over existing technology. For example existing BA solutions are highly data centric and provide little to no ability for interaction among users. Users of current systems are typically provided only with data or information and have no ability to interact with the data or information define groups of other users with which to share the information or update or change the data or information. As such users rely on email SMS message or even phone calls to have conversations with other users to share or discuss business information.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another method for providing social analytics information. The method of this aspect includes providing to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a menu option to subscribe to a report to be provided to a plurality of users of the social analytics system receiving from the first user a request to subscribe to the report and providing responsive to generation or update of the report a presentation of the report in a flow associated with the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another system for providing social analytics information. The system of this aspect includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor is configured to provide to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a menu option to subscribe to a report to be provided to a plurality of users of the social analytics system receive from the first user a request to subscribe to the report and provide responsive to generation or update of the report a presentation of the report in a flow associated with the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another computer program product comprising a computer readable medium including codes executable by a processor. The codes cause the processor to provide to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a menu option to subscribe to a report to be provided to a plurality of users of the social analytics system receive from the first user a request to subscribe to the report and provide responsive to generation or update of the report a presentation of the report in a flow associated with the first user.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to another system for providing social analytics information. The system of this aspect includes memory means means for providing to a first user of a social analytics system a user interface including a menu option to subscribe to a report to be provided to a plurality of users of the social analytics system means for receiving from the first user a request to subscribe to the report and means for providing responsive to generation or update of the report a presentation of the report in a flow associated with the first user.

For example embodiments of the present invention allow users to interact with each other in a social networking like interface with combined business analytics functionality. Various functions may be included in displays or other interfaces that may be provided on a webpage allowing a user to access the interface and information through a standard web browser and or through a standalone application that may provide web like functionality with additional advantages and or controls available through a standalone application.

Functions that may be included in various business analytics systems embodiments may include for example one or more search bars configured to allow users to search through shared content in a flow as described subsequently below as well as providing the ability to search for alerts reports recipes contacts and or other data or information. In some embodiments a search bar may be coupled with other functionality such as for example Natural Language Processing NLP where a search term or phrase may be processed to generate visualization or other information.

In another aspect social analytics system embodiments may be configured to facilitate content sharing whereby reports visualizations alerts scheduled information such as scheduled reports and or other data or information may be shared in a controlled or monitored fashion among appropriate users. In addition in another aspect users may be provided with a mechanism to comment and or update shared information. For example users may be allowed to attach files e.g. PDF XLS PNG etc. answer with responsive visualizations and or otherwise be provided with a mechanism to provide comment and feedback.

In another aspect social analytics system embodiments may be configured to provide interactive reports including the ability for users to comment on visualizations reports and or other data or information. Some embodiments may allow users to generate and or amend or update information objects denoted herein for brevity as objects such as reports data tables graphs or other displays of information summaries or other business or web analytics data or information and then share the information with others using the business analytics interface.

For example a user may be provided with an interface to create and publish a report to other users who are provided group or object or category access . The other users may then be able to instantly see the report and comment on it. In addition information associated with object creation updates comments and or other information may be provided to other users in the form of a feed alert page or other indication.

In addition users or businesses may be provided with an interface to allow creation and editing of users groups as well as control how information may be generated shared amended and distributed as well as how objects may be edited displayed distributed etc.

In addition users may be provided with an interface to dynamically interact with objects in a social analytics system. For example a SA user may be allowed to interactively control an object such as a data display graph or other information with the updated information then shared immediately with other users. Real time interaction between the users may be provided allowing applications such as real time user interaction with commenting feedback etc. regarding the object or other information being shared.

Various additional aspects details features and functions are described below in conjunction with the appended Drawing figures.

The following exemplary embodiments are provided for the purpose of illustrating examples of various aspects details and functions of apparatus and systems however the described embodiments are not intended to be in any way limiting. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various aspects may be implemented in other embodiments within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

It is noted that as used herein the term exemplary means serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect detail function implementation and or embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects and or embodiments.

Users may be provided an interface to interact with the system in the form of a flow . The flow allows users to share objects and other information with other users such as reports alerts etc. In addition the flow may be used as a mechanism to allow users to interact with posts provided by other users and or to leave comments and post responses with new visualizations e.g. graphs or other graphical presentations of information and or attach files such as JPEGs PDFs etc.

Users may be allowed to control their flow . For example a user that is a member of multiple groups may be provided with an interface to set filters or other controls to filter out unneeded or irrelevant information or groups e.g. Marketing Developers System etc. . A flow with information about particular product features may also be provided. For example a flow may be filtered by product features such as for example alerts scheduled reports etc. so that a user is presented with posts to their flow only from those specific features.

An interface to allow users to readily access frequently used or most common used reports or other information may be provided. For example reports or other objects may be listed by category of use or relevance. Additional information may be further accessed through a more function allowing access to less important or less frequently used objects or other reports provided to or shared by the group or community e.g. where a group is a subset of a community .

An available users interface may be provided to allow users to see which other associated users are online and or available such as for interactive communications. For example the users may be provided with a button or other mechanism to initiate an interactive communication videoconference if webcams are available and or other interaction such as a voice conference over the system.

In addition a Live button such as shown may be displayed in the interface thereby allowing a user to view in real time a report or other object that an associated user is working on. For example in interface as shown in a user may be provided with a Live button icon associated with another user in this case Person 1 and selection of the icon may then allow the user to view the report that Person 1 is working on and or may be allowed to comment on or otherwise interact with Person 1 while the report is being worked on e.g. created edited updated etc. . Additional details regarding aspects of this functionality are further described subsequently herein. A user may also be provided with a webcam e.g. audio and video or audio interface to communicate with other users

A user profile or other user identification panel may be included to provide more information about others that a user is communicating with. For example a photo avatar or other user specific information such as user s business card and or text information such as email addresses mail addresses phone numbers and or other information may be included in panel .

A search bar may be included to allow users to search and identify content available to users such as for example alerts scheduled reports contacts groups saved reports information provided by other users into the flow etc. Results may be returned based on specific keyword searches and or other processing such as NLP processing on received phrases or other groups of terms. For example as a user types in text into the search bar the entered string of characters may be processed and a list of results may be displayed such as for example by category and or including a sub selection of options or top hits with the category.

Other information of interest may include flows with information identifying other users e.g. Person 1 and Person 2 in this case and associated information from their flows respectively as well as Groups which may provide information regarding groups to which the user belongs and Contacts which may provide information regarding relevant contacts such as other users with information and or responsibility over business functions related to the search term s . Other functions may also be provided such as for example a selection option to allow a user to see more search results function change or amend search terms not shown in and or perform other search related functions not shown .

In the example of the first search string text entered e.g. Top Pages anametrix.com for last month as Pie Chart may be received by a business analytics system and parsed to generate relevant search terms such as for example information such as top pages most requested information etc. a site or data source site in the case a company name website etc. such as anametrix.com a visualization e.g. a graph chart or other visualization graphic as well as a date range e.g. last week or range of weeks month year etc. .

In an exemplary embodiment information is the type of information desired such as for example Top Pages as shown or other information such as Number of Impressions e.g. number of hits on a website which may be a metric brought into the system from a connector. The site data source is a location where information may be found within the business analytics system as well as additional related information such as filters to be applied to correctly present the information. A second example search string is Number of Impressions Information for Campaign 2536874 Site Data Source during this year Date Range which may be similarly parsed.

A date range which may be optionally included may be a static date range such as 2011 05 01 to 2011 05 31 and or a varying or relative date range such as for example last week or last month as shown in the second example search string above . If no date range is entered a default date range or other date range selection mechanism such as for example a date range selected based on the type of information requested may be used. A visualization may also optionally be included for example the visualization is omitted for the second search string example described above . For example a type of graph or chart or other data presentation format may be specifically provided or if not a default type may be applied as with the date range .

In order to be able to know whether a search term such as for example Subscribers is linked to a certain connector e.g. in this example an email marketing provider it may be desirable to tag connectors and data sources. When new sources of data are provided to the business analytics system they may be tagged accordingly so that a user may readily access the data through the search bar.

In order to parse search terms a number of possible algorithms may be used. For example in embodiments where the previous categories e.g. information data sources sites date range and visualization are used one appropriate algorithm for use is a decision tree algorithm which may similarly be applied when additional and or different categories are used . In implementing a decision tree algorithm an input string may be analyzed using dictionaries to identify a best matching case or cases . An example of this is shown in flowchart embodiment in wherein a search term such as the search strings described previously with respect to may be parsed and the parsed terms matched at stage to a set of categories. In the example shown categories include those described with respect to including a Date Range Information Visualizations and a Data Source . Each category may include a set of potential matching parameters such as date formats information types visualization types and data sources . Based on the matching parameters a closest match or matches may be selected at stage . For example for an applied search term Number of Impressions Today in Table Form the corresponding results including a match of the term today with Date Range category impressions with category Information Table with category Visualization and Campaign 912312 438 with the Data Source category . By using this approach appropriate search criteria may be identified and then used to search for relevant information.

Some embodiments may be implemented in a plug in and use an application programming interface API such as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 442 467 filed Feb. 24 2011 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR INTERACTIVE DATA MANAGEMENT USING AN APPLICATION PLUG IN and in U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 396 362 filed Feb. 14 2012 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR INTERACTIVE DATA MANAGEMENT USING AN APPLICATION PLUG IN both of which are incorporated by reference herein. By including the search functionality in a plugin SPOTLIGHT e.g. a system wide desktop feature provided on MAC computer systems may be supported in MAC or corresponding features provided on Windows WINDOWS systems for searches. In general plug ins for various operating systems may be provided to allow searching directly through the operating system s search bar which may include use of NLP as described herein without the need to launch a specific browser or standalone application.

As noted previously one aspect of the present invention relates to providing users with the capability to share content such as finished reports as well as specific graphs charts or other visually presented information with other users such as coworkers. This may be implemented as shown with respect to the example display of . For example to share a report a user may be provided with a menu or other interface option such as Report menu option or similar or equivalent option to select a report to select a report. The report may include various information including visualizations such as visualization and .

The Report menu may include various submenus including a share sub menu that a user may select to share the report with other users as well as other submenus such as the various submenus shown in sub menu . A different interface mechanism may be used to share visualizations or other information such as visualizations and . This may be done by an attached pop up menu or box such as with pop up window as shown in which may be attached or associated with a visualization and may pop up during certain user actions such as moving a mouse cursor over or near the visualization. An image icon or other representation of the chart graph report or other visualization may similarly be presented to the user. The pop up window may include a share icon or other selection mechanism to initiate sharing of the visualization.

In either the example shown in or the example shown in once a user selects the share menu option additional actions may be done such as providing a menu or other input option to allow a user to enter a description or other information which may be presented to other users alongside the report chart. An example of such a window is shown in window of where options such as a listing of available users who with to share a description box for entering text an image of the report chart or other visualization and or other images or information not shown may be provided.

After a user has filled in any required elements of window the user may select the OK button or make a similar or equivalent selection after which the chart graph report will be posted to the flow of any selected users. An example of a flow update box illustrating how information may be posted to a selected user s flow is shown in display of . For example the presented information may include a description of the submitted information e.g. a Report a Visualization etc. as well as an information box such as information box as shown in which may include information such as the user s photo avatar icon business card etc. text or other information submitted by the user such as the information entered in the Description box of an icon or image representing the report chart as well as other information not shown . A pop up window or similar or equivalent interface element such as pop up window may be included to allow for addition user interaction such as changing the parameters of reports e.g. date or other ranges or scaling maximizing sizing or change other parameters of report or visualizations . A similar presentation for Visualizations such as charts graphs is illustrated in display of .

Some embodiments may include alerting functions such as described in Related U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 477 993 filed Apr. 21 2011 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PREDICTIVE ALERTING and in U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 453 926 filed Apr. 23 2012 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR PREDICTIVE ALERTING both of which are incorporated by reference herein. Similar to Reports Alerts may be sent to a set of users and may appear in the users flow. For example a first user may create an alert and it may be processed such as described in the 993 or the 926 applications with the alert then included in users flows based on occurrence of the underlying event or events controlling the alert.

An example embodiment of an Alert Creation window is shown in . A user may be provided with an interface to enter alert controls and conditions such as what is being monitored how frequently how notification may be done whether predictions of occurrence of the alerting condition s should be done and or other alert or monitoring criteria. In addition an interface may be included to allow a user to select whether the alert response should be shared with other users flows. These may be predefined groups of users such as Developers Marketers and or other groups of users and or may be filtered users which may be users selected based on properties or parameters associated with the users.

When an alert is triggered a post may then be generated in the selected users flows. An example of this is shown as post of . Users that see the post may be able to subscribe or otherwise interact with the alert to that future alerts may be presented to the users by email voice message or other communication methods. An example Subscribe menu selection button is shown in .

In addition to user generated or user controlled report presentation in some embodiments reports may be scheduled and automatically generated. For example in one embodiment a report may be scheduled using an add on application such as the add on application to MICROSOFT EXCEL created by Anametrix assignee of the instant application for automating report creation. For example a report may have a predefined format and predefined scheduling to determine the frequency of refresh. In the existing Anametrix application the refreshed report is sent by email to appropriate users. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a scheduled report may also be generated and published such as to the flows of designated users. An embodiment of an example report scheduling window is shown in including a publication selection option which may include menus or other selection options to select an appropriate group of users for receipt of the scheduled reports as well as a Description window to allow users to enter text such as described previously with respect to .

Another aspect of the present invention relates to interactive report generation and user interaction through users flows. Interactive reports are reports that allow multiple users to interact with the report and or associated information. For example illustrates an example embodiment of an Interactive Report and Visualization. When a report is published to users flows the users may be provided with an interface to comment on the report and or on specific elements such as tables visualizations text or other elements. An example comments panel is shown where users may provide comments elements of a report such as visualization e.g. the Ratio pie chart tabular information e.g. the Site Traffic table or other elements not shown . The comments panel may include information associated with the commenting user such as the element which is being commented on e.g. Ratio Site Traffic Year etc. the user making the comment the time date as well as textual or graphically provided comments data or information.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to live reports. Live reports are shared reports that provide for real time updating and or interaction. illustrates an example embodiment of a live report window for interaction with report which includes Visualization Table Comments panel as well as an Active Users panel . One user may be allowed to actively edit update change parameters of e.g. date scaling etc. or other information associated with the report and or with specific elements such as Visualization or Table while other users receive and can view the updates in real time. The Active Users panel may be provided to each active user to monitor which others are also interacting with the report. In addition interaction may be provided through use of an audio connection such as through use of a microphone and or a video connection such as through use of a webcam. This information may be audibly and or visually presented to all users capable of audio or video interaction. In the example shown in four users are interacting e.g. the user who is receiving window as well as Persons 1 3 . Person 2 is actively communicating as shown by the microphone icon with Person 1 and Person 3.

Multiple users may be provided with controlled access to system such as via wired networks wireless networks the Internet or via other communication connections. Each user may interact with system using a standard web browser however in some implementations a plug in or standalone application may be executed in whole or in part on the user systems . As described previously multiple users may interact using a Social Analytics interface such as shown in . For example a user on User System may interact via a user interface such as shown in with users on User System and User System and or with other users on other systems not shown .

Within server system one or more processors may be coupled to one or more analytics databases which may contain shared objects such as reports visualizations tables etc. Users may interact with system via one or more networking interfaces to implement the functions described herein including providing user communications report distribution live report updating and other user interactions over the social analytics network.

At decision stage a decision may be made as to whether the report editing updating is completed. This may be initiated by an action from User 1 such as by indicating completion of editing and checking in the report. If editing is not completed processing may return to stage for further editing updating. Once editing is completed the report may then be available at stage for other users to access edit. Upon access by other users process may be repeated. Additional functions such as providing user comments associated with the object s being edited as described previously herein may also be implemented in conjunction with process .

At stage and the first user may interactive edit update the object and the editing updating information may correspondingly be provided to the Social Analytics system where it may further be shared with other users . At stage a second user and or other users may provide comments on the updating editing of the object which may then be provided from the Social Analytics system to the first user. The comments may then be displayed on the user interface of the first user and or in a comments panel of the other users .

In some configurations the apparatus or systems described herein may include means for implementing features or providing functions described herein. In one aspect the aforementioned means may be a module including a processor or processors associated memory and or other electronics in which embodiments of the invention reside such as to implement Social Analytics functions as described herein. These may be for example modules or apparatus residing in computer systems mobile phones server systems or other electronic or computing systems.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the electronic functions methods and processes described herein and associated with Social Analytics functions may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or encoded as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer storage media. Storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

As used herein computer program products comprising computer readable media including all forms of computer readable medium except to the extent that such media is deemed to be non statutory transitory propagating signals.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps or stages in the processes and methods disclosed herein are examples of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals such as video and or audio signals or data control signals or other signals or data may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software electro mechanical components or combinations thereof. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative functions and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein with respect to Social Analytics systems may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps or stages of a method process or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

The disclosure is not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the specification and drawings wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. A phrase referring to at least one of a list of items refers to any combination of those items including single members. As an example at least one of a b or c is intended to cover a b c a and b a and c b and c and a b and c.

The previous description of the disclosed aspects is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

