---

title: Network security and fraud detection system and method
abstract: A system and method to detect and prevent fraud in a system is provided. The system may uniquely identify physical devices connecting to a network, register unique devices, track end-user logins, associate end-user accounts with specific devices, and share information with multiple network service providers is described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09118646&OS=09118646&RS=09118646
owner: IOVATION, INC.
number: 09118646
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130208
---
This application is a continuation in part and claims priority under 35 USC 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 867 871 filed on Jun. 14 2004 entitled Network Security and Fraud Detection System and Method which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the field of network security including detection and prevention of fraudulent transaction and identity theft. By sharing information about associations between end users and one or more reputation factors such as a unique network device identifier the present invention has other potential uses that include but are not limited to content distribution hardware authentication protection against piracy of software and other electronic media monitoring customer behavior target marketing and customer relationship management.

The continued growth of telecommunications infrastructure and proliferation of network devices service providers wireless technology and related software products have transformed the Internet into a tool for everyday use. Businesses are increasingly using the Internet as a method of communicating with customers vendors employees and shareholders and conducting business transactions. In theory conducting business on the Internet is often efficient and cost effective particularly when products and services can be distributed electronically. In practice damage caused by hackers identity theft stolen credit cards and other fraudulent activities can be enormously expensive and difficult to manage. At a minimum these realities significantly increase the risks and costs associated with conducting business over the Internet specifically and generally over any type of network.

While a number of methods are commonly used to make it safer to use the Internet and facilitate communication and business transactions they all have inherent and exploitable weaknesses. Login names and passwords are one of the most widely used and accepted forms of basic network security where access is limited to an exact match of a login and password combination. The identification of valid login names is often trivial particularly on networks where logins are visible to observers and in organizations where users have a common login format such as firstinitial lastname . Since end users often use common simple and default passwords share passwords and write down more complicated passwords passwords can be guessed requested or observed. Thus the user name and password combination provides only a basic level of security and should not be relied upon exclusively particularly to guard networks accessible via the Internet.

A secondary user authentication system goes a step beyond reliance on just user name and password and can greatly increase security. The secondary authentication relies on something the user has in their possession such as a special purpose hardware device. For example after entering a valid user name and password to access a network a user may be given a code as part of the login process. The user enters the code into a device within a specified amount of time and the device provides a secondary code password for the user to enter as part of the login process. While significantly more secure these systems are not perfect. More importantly these systems can be impractical in protecting large networks accessible by the general public and create significant barriers to entry.

A hardware key sometimes referred to as a dongle that might be connected to a computer by a USB port is sometimes used to identify end users connecting from a particular device. A fixed system component serial number and other hardware methods used to uniquely identify a specific network devices are also used to limit access to known devices. Unfortunately these methods can be copied and simulated in software. These systems also create barriers and can be impractical in protecting large networks accessible by the general public.

The use of digital certificates and Trusted Third Party Certificate Authorities are increasingly popular methods of ensuring that the party connecting to a network is indeed who they claim to be. Unfortunately certificates can be copied and even stolen remotely. Moreover significant trust must be placed in third party verification groups that do not have a direct vested interest in the networks relying upon them. The requirement for network users to utilize certificates can also create a significant barrier particularly for large networks accessible by the general public and create significant barriers to entry.

An Internet Protocol IP address and geo location services relying upon IP address are sometimes used to verify end users or at least to cross reference likely physical location with known information about a user. These methods are limited by the fact that many Internet users obtain a new temporary IP address every time they connect to the Internet. Moreover using IP addresses to pinpoint the actual location of a connected device is inherently flawed by the nature in which blocks of IP numbers are distributed and the relative ease of IP spoofing a technique used by network intruders to make it appear that they are connecting from a trusted or different EP address.

The negative credit card databases and lists of identities used in fraudulent activities are reasonable screening tools and should be used to the extent that they are cost effective. However such lists can never be relied upon exclusively because it is practically impossible for such lists to be up to date and comprehensive. In addition these lists offer absolutely no protection against so called friendly charge backs declined payments by credit card holders that make purchases using their own valid credit card who later claim that they did not make the purchase.

Screening services such as RiskGardian provided by TrustMarque and other risk assessment services are also reasonable screening tools and should be used to the extent that they are cost effective. These services utilize little concrete information about a specific user or device and only assign relative risks associated to a particular transaction based upon general information and trends. Finally such services rely exclusively on historical trends and are poor at identifying new problems and emerging risk areas.

Fingerprints voice recognition retinal scans face recognition DNA and other biometric identification methods will become increasingly more common. At this time these methods of user identification are substantially cost prohibitive. Moreover one or more of these methods must be widely distributed and generally accepted by end users for consideration and use by most organizations conducting business over the Internet. Even if such a method was available and cost effective once unique biometric identifiers are converted into electronic information they too can be stolen copied and otherwise compromised.

While all of these methods and others have their weaknesses and can be exploited each has a place in network security. The types of access level of security nature of user populations and other factors will dictate which group of methods will best serve each application. The present invention is not intended to replace any of these means of protecting networks and screening out unauthorized users. Organizations should use any and all cost effective means at their disposal to screen network access. The present invention enhances security by providing capabilities undeliverable by any other of the above typical systems and methods. Thus it is desirable to provide a network security and fraud detection system and method and it is to this end that the present invention is directed.

These and other objects are achieved by a system that uniquely identifies network devices connecting to a network and correlates logins with each network device used. This information can be used to observe login behavior such as accounts connecting from too many devices or too many accounts connecting from the same device. In addition this information can be used to cross reference physical devices used by known fraudulent accounts and cross reference other accounts used by specific devices. Physical devices involved in suspicious or fraudulent activity or devices associated with accounts involved in suspicious activity can be prevented from connecting to a network. Finally this information can be shared with other networks utilizing the system. In this way physical devices associated with suspicious or fraudulent activity on one network could be denied access to other networks based on the business rules and risk tolerance parameters of each individual network.

The system is an advanced fraud detection and prevention tool that can significantly reduce the risk of Internet transaction and identity fraud since the system allows a business to avoid problem customers identified by other participating businesses before they start creating problems for that business and it eases the process of identifying potential repeat offenders before they create more problems. To accomplish this goal the system uniquely identifies end customers as well as their association with one another. The system tracks end customers behavior over time identifies suspicious behavior based on parameters established by network service providers and maintains status for device and end user associations. This information is shared by all participating businesses so that a business can make the most educated decisions about new and existing customers based on the network devices they use and the history of those devices with other businesses. In a preferred embodiment the fraud detection and prevention system is comprised of three major real time components including a server a client and a set of application programming interfaces APIs . The server contains a centralized database of fraud history that is maintained. The client is a small executable program having a plurality of lines of code that registers a network device with the server. The client may be contained within a program distributed by a network service provider that must be used to connect to the network. The client may also be delivered through a stand alone application imbedded within a common software product like a web browser or even imbedded in hardware or memory any of which would be required to be running when a connection to a network is authenticated by a network service provider protected by this system. The client could also be delivered on demand through a JavaScript ActiveX control or similar technology as a user connects to a network service provider through their favorite web browser. For example a gambling site might have a new user download a software application that generates a poker table user interface and logic and the client of the fraud detection and prevention system is part of that downloaded software application. The API ieSnAPI in a preferred embodiment is a set of tools that a back end system of a network service provider that uses the fraud detection and prevention system uses to communicate with the system. In addition to the three real time components the system further comprises two administrative components including Web Admin Pages and a reports module. The Web Admin Pages may permit a user of the system to tune its fraud tolerance levels inspect and change individual customers fraud status and check customers relationships to one another. The reports will keep a business apprised of existing customers who have new fraud activity as well as the usage of the system.

In accordance with the invention a network security and fraud detection and prevention system and method are provided. The system may have one or more network service providers that provides a service and a network device that connects to at least one of the network service providers over a communications network to use the provided service. At least one of the network service providers further comprises a fraud detector system. The fraud detector system has a client wherein the client gathers information about the network device to generate a device identifier that identifies the network device a database and a module that receives the device identifier stores the device identifier in the database and associates the device identifier with one or more reputation factors to generate a reputation of the network device. Using the system and method the reputation of the network device is shared between the one or more network service providers to detect fraud using the network device across the network service providers. The reputation factors may include but are not limited to one or more of end user account information provided by the network service provider a credit card account number of a user a fingerprint of the user an email address of the user a phone number of the user a physical address of the user a cellular phone number of the user or any other information about the user that contains evidence of the reputation of the user.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a computer based user account authentication system and method are provided. The system comprises one or more network service providers that provides a service and a first network device that connects to at least one of the network service providers over a communications network to use the provided service. At least one network service provider has a fraud detector unit. The fraud detection unit has a client wherein the client gathers information about the network device to generate a device identifier that identifies the network device a database and a module that receives the device identifier stores the device identifier in the database and associates the device identifier with end user account information provided by the network service provider. The fraud detection system also has a user account module that compares the device identifier for the first network device with a list of one or more network devices approved to access the user account stored in the database determines if the first network device accesses the user account based on the list of approved network devices.

The invention is particularly applicable to an electronic transaction fraud detection system and method and it is in this context that the invention will be described. It will be appreciated however that the system and method in accordance with the invention has greater utility such as to any type of transaction in which it may be desirable to detect fraud being carried out by one or more network devices and user accounts over a communications network or even detecting and preventing potential fraud or identity theft by individuals trying to complete a transaction remotely by phone or mail or even in person. An important aspect of this system and method is to associate two pieces of information about a transaction monitor these associations for all customers and share status information about these associations with other businesses. Illustrated below is the use of this system to correlate a physical device and a user. In accordance with the invention the associating of any combination of factors pieces of information including but not limited to customer identifier phone number drivers license number social security number mailing address ship to address credit card number email address network device retail purchase location and any other information captured as part of a purchase could be used to identify and minimize transaction fraud and identity theft. One of the most important aspects of the invention is creating associations tracking behavior over time and sharing information with multiple networks or businesses that stand to benefit from sharing this type of information. In this way fraudulent activity can be identified and stopped within one network business and prevented in others that share information through this fraud prevention system. For purposes of illustration a specific example of the fraud detection system in the context of an on line gambling web site will be described. In accordance with the invention the system in accordance with the invention may utilize 1 both a network device identifier NDI and a network device fingerprint NDF to identify a network device 2 only an NDI to identify a network device 3 only an NDF to identify a network device or 4 any other data that may be used to uniquely identify a network device. The information used to identify a network device may be known as a device identifier. In some situations it may be impossible to extract data from a network device so that only the NDI is used to identify the network device. In other situations the other data that is used to identify the network device may be a phone number of a caller to a phone ordering system or an identifier for a cellular phone. For purposes of illustration an example is provided below See in which the reputation of a network device is tracked and used to identify fraud wherein an NDI and an NDF are used together to identify a network device. In accordance with the invention the system may also implement multi factor reputations discussed below or as shown in may be used to control access to an end user account.

As shown in each network device may connect to any network service provider over the communications network using well known data protocols such as HTTP HTTPS and the like. In the system shown in each network service provider may be providing a service to each network device connected to it and may perform an electronic transaction with each network device such as a bet in gambling game or a purchase of a product. In accordance with the invention each electronic transaction is susceptible to fraud and each network device and its user must be uniquely identified to reduce the risk of fraud. Thus the fraud detection server may receive unique user identification information from each network service provider as well as generate a unique network device identifier that uniquely identifies each network device. Using the unique user identification information and unique network device fingerprint in accordance with the invention the fraud detection server is able to detect fraudulent activities across the electronic transaction network . In particular the fraud server may provide a centralized service utilizing this invention to uniquely identify physical devices register unique devices track end user logins associate an end user account with one or more specific devices associate a device with one or more end user accounts and share this information with each network service provider. The fraud server may include a centralized Network Device Registration Database NDRD . More details of the fraud server and the fraud detection system in accordance with the invention will be described below with reference to .

The network device for example may be a personal computer server computer laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA such as a Palm based device or Windows CE device a cellular phone a wireless device such as a wireless email device or other device capable of communicating wirelessly with a computer network or any other computing resource that has the processor memory and input output capabilities to be able to communicate with a computer network and handle electronic transactions. The network device may also be a telephone of a user used for example to order items from a mail order catalog. In operation a network device such as ND may request access to the electronic transaction network and a particular network service provider such as NSP in this example. To gain access to the NSP complete a transaction or access a particular part of the network a user must log in through a network device. The NSP may then pass an end user account identifier EAI onto the fraud server . A client program on the network device may generate a network device fingerprint NDF for the network device unless a fingerprint has already been assigned to that network device and sends that NDF to the fraud server. The fraud server stores the EAI and NDF in the NDRD . Based on the EAI and NDF as described below in more detail the likelihood of fraud being committed by the particular end user with the network device ND is determined and an appropriate action is taken. Assuming the network device ND is granted access to the network the network device performs its electronic transaction. If a fraudulent activity occurs during that electronic transaction that information is also stored in the NDRD . In this manner the one or more network service providers share fraud information between each other selectively as described below in more detail so that a fraud committed against one network service provider is logged into and tracked by the fraud detection system in accordance with the invention. Thus a user or network device that has committed fraudulent activities is tracked even when the user or network device logs into a different network service provider. Therefore the fraudulent activities of a user or network device are tracked across the electronic transaction system . Now each network device will be described in more detail.

In accordance with the invention embedded in each Client Software Package is a small piece of software that performs a portion of a common Network Device Registration Method NDRM that is described in more detail below with reference to . In the example shown in each Host represents a different private network environment operated by independent organizations that do not share end user identities. Also in this example the centralized NDRD used by each Host is remotely located at the fraud server and is a service provided by a third party. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the NDRM may be implemented in various different manners that are within the scope of this invention. For example the NDRM may be distributed across a plurality of computing devices with no central fraud server and no central NDRD wherein the computing devices such as a combination of the network devices and network service providers each perform part of the functions of the fraud detection and preventing system in accordance with the invention. Alternatively the NDRM may be embedded in a custom application embedded in the browser application or other common application s or in firmware. Furthermore the NDRM may be a stand alone application or executed remotely and all of these examples of the NDRM are within the scope of the invention. Furthermore the NDRM may be executed before after and or during connection to a network or at periodic intervals with all combinations of which are within the scope of the invention.

The NDRM in accordance with the invention may be customized for different network device types. For example with a personal computer that connects to a NSP the NDRM may use the NDI and NDF to identify the network device. With a cellular phone it is typically possible to extract data from the cellular phone such as its serial number so that an NDF only may be used to identify the cellular phone network device. For a personal digital assistant PDA network device it is typically possible to put data information onto the PDA only so that the NDI only may be used to identify the PDA. As another example a PC using Linux would require a different client than a Windows based PC. In accordance with the invention the NDRM may also be practiced in a situation in which a hardware device such as a smart card or PCMCIA card with a pre loaded fraud client module on the card may be used in which the card has its own unique identifier that may be used to uniquely identify the card. Thus the NDRM in accordance with the invention may be implemented in a variety of different manners. Now more details of an exemplary network service provider NSP will be described.

Thus in accordance with the invention the client for the device on which it is installed determines the status of the device as already having a unique identifier or not and controls the connection of the device to the network service provider. The network service provider controls each device and or each user s access to the resources of the network service provider by for example denying access to a user or device as described below. Thus the network service provider utilizes the device user status provided by the client in order to effectively control network security and prevent fraud. Now an example of the fraud detection server will be described.

The reports software module permits a user to configure and generate reports from the fraud detection and prevention system and its database. For example the system may generate a report showing the daily change report with a list of the network devices whose status has changed a third party fraud report listing the network devices that other network service providers know about and their status or a shared computer report listing all of the network devices that have multiple user accounts associated with them. The reports module may also generate a multiple computer report listing the users that have used multiple network devices and the network devices used by each user and a usage report listing the number of administrator queries administrator updates API queries and number of network devices being tracked by the fraud detection system. The fraud detector software module contains the instructions and logic based on the data from the network devices and users to determine the appropriate status of a particular user network device and its access status into the electronic transaction system. In accordance with the invention each network service provider may establish its own status rules. For example a particular network service provider may establish a Yes or No to connect to the network service provider. As another example a particular network service provider may have a Yes to connect but generate a score for the particular network device status or a Yes but trap the information about the network device status. The fraud detection logic is described below in more detail.

The tagger software module contains the various software logic and data to uniquely identify each network device generate the identifier for a particular network device that is making a connection to the electronic transaction system. The connection to the system may include but are not limited to an initial connection to the network account set up login change to account information deposit withdrawal purchase randomly throughout connection to network etc. In accordance with the invention the actual method for tagging each network device may vary as described below. In accordance with the invention each network device is uniquely identified that each device is tracked within the system even when a different user logs into a Host with the same network device. Tagging individual network devices enables the fraud detection system to deny access to a Host for a particular user regardless of the network device being used for a particular network device regardless of the user using the network device for the combination of a particular user with a particular network device or any combination of users and devices. Now examples of the user database in each network service provider and the network device registration database of the fraud detection system will be described in more detail.

Thus when a network device attempts to connect to a network for the very first time the method ensures that the device is registered and therefore tracked in at least two separate ways. First the method requests a unique Network Device Identifier NDI from the NDRD through the Host. The method obtrusively stores the encrypted NDI in at least two pieces for example Part A in the registry and Part B in a file. The NDIs are distributed by NDRD and are guaranteed to be unique. The method also generates a Network Device Fingerprint NDF for each device by unobtrusively gathering information about the device such as hardware serial numbers software serial numbers install dates and other information and sends the resulting NDF to NDRD through the Host the network service provider . Although the individual components of an NDF are not guaranteed to be unique increasing the size of the NDF or number of elements of information used to create the NDF increases the likelihood that the resulting NDF is unique and increases its value for positive identification. In accordance with the invention the combination of the NDI and the NDF is unique and permits each network device to be uniquely identified. Thus the NDI shown in includes the NDF since the combination will uniquely identify a network device.

The exact methodology for registering a device is not critical provided that it uniquely identifies devices with an extremely high likelihood. For example various methods for uniquely identifying devices may be slightly different to accommodate unique aspects of thin clients handheld computers cell phones game terminals and other device types. All of these variations are within the scope of the invention. In a preferred embodiment the client program may gather information for each network device in order to generate the NDF. It is very likely that hosts utilizing this system may distribute a common registration method in different ways depending on end user characteristics and typical platforms used to connect to their network or even execute the registration method remotely. However those skilled in the art will also appreciate that any system that uniquely identifies and registers a network device with a centralized NDRD whether through an intermediate Host or through direct communications are within the scope of this invention.

In addition to facilitating communication between NDRM and NDRD the network service provider Host also passes an End user Account Identifier EAI to the NDRD associated with the specific end user account that is trying to access connect to the network service provider. This identifier may be a customer account number or other unique value associated with a specific end user account that is not used in the Host system for any other purpose. Depending on the business relationship between Host and NDRM service provider actual customer information may or may not be registered. However whether or not actual customer information is provided does not substantively change the process. In accordance with the invention the NDRD tracks every network device having a unique NDI that tries to connect to a Host along with its corresponding NDF. The NDRD also maintains an association for every EAI that connects from every unique network device. The NDRD also tracks information such as first connection last connection total connections last failed connection total failed connections NDI status by Host and NDF status by Host. In accordance with the invention the system may utilize the NDI the NDF the combination of the NDI and NDF or other information in order to validate a user device. For example the other information may be a serial number of a cell phone. Now an example of the preferred database schema of the fraud detection system will be described in more detail.

In step if the NDI NDF pair match it is determined if the NDI status is acceptable to the particular Host. In particular an individual network device may connect to several networks protected by this system and therefore the particular NDI may be associated with multiple hosts. In accordance with the invention each NDI has a status for each Host using NDRD and each Host defines any number of statuses for NDIs. When a network device is trying to connect to Host NDRD follows any rules associated with the NDI status for Host. For example Host may establish just two status levels one to allow access and one to deny access. Host may establish a single set of several status levels where each status has a different set of criteria and where each status determines which area of their network a device account is allowed to access. Host may have several sets of statuses where set applies to connecting to the network set applies to accessing various areas of the network and set applies to various activities on the network such as establish a new account change account info purchase etc. and where each status has a unique criteria established and maintained by Host. If the NDI status is not acceptable to the particular Host the method is aborted in step and access is denied. In step if the NDI status is acceptable to the Host it is determined if the NDF status for the particular network device is acceptable for the particular Host. In particular each NDF also has a status for each Host using the NDRD and each Host defines any number of statuses for the NDFs. When a network device is trying to connect to Host NDRD follows any rules associated with the NDF status for Host. As with status levels and associated rules for NDIs the hosts may establish any number of status levels for NDFs appropriate to their purpose. If the NDF status is not acceptable to the particular Host the method is aborted in step and access is denied. These two steps are one line of defense against hackers that remove all traces of NDIs and try to connect to a protected network. In extreme cases a new NDI might be issued to a network device but access to the network might still be denied depending on the status of the NDF controlled by each Host both manually and in rules established with NDRD.

In step if the NDF status for the network device is acceptable to the particular Host it is determined if the NDI status for the particular network device is acceptable for any other Host identified by the particular Host as being trusted. In particular individual network devices may connect to several networks protected by this system and therefore the NDI may be associated with multiple hosts. Upon trying to connect to Host the NDI status for Host may be clear while the NDI status for other hosts is marked as bad . In accordance with the invention each Host can identify other hosts that are trusted whereby if the NDI status is bad for any other trusted Host network access would be denied independent of the NDI status for Host. This step prevents fraud by a user that might have a bad status on a first network service provider but not on a second network service provider and thus shares information about a bad network device that is identified by a particular NDI. If the NDI status is not acceptable to any trusted hosts the method is aborted in step and access is denied.

In step if the NDI is acceptable to all trusted hosts it is determined if the NDF status is acceptable to any other hosts that are indicated as trusted by the particular Host. In particular individual network devices may connect to several networks protected by this system and therefore a particular NDF may be associated with multiple hosts. Upon trying to connect to Host the NDF status for Host may be clear while the NDF status for other hosts is marked as bad . Each Host can identify other hosts that are trusted whereby if the NDF status is bad for any other trusted Host network access would be denied independent of the NDI status for Host. This step shares information about the NDF statuses of network devices across the electronic transaction system. If the NDF of the particular network device is not acceptable to a trusted Host the account with the NDF is denied access. In step if the NDF is acceptable to all of the trusted hosts then it is determined if the number of end user account identifiers EAIs per NDI is within the acceptable range for the particular Host. In particular each Host establishes rules for the number of EAIs allowed per NDI or in other words the number of users that can use an individual network device. For example Host may not be worried about 3 or fewer accounts coming from an individual PC may want to be warned about 4 6 accounts coming from a PC and may want to deny network access to any login attempt where 7 or more accounts are coming from the same PC. For each set of rules different levels of concern and different remedies no action warning or denial of access may be put into place and the particular levels of concern and remedies may be adjusted by each Host in accordance with the invention. As another example another Host may allow only one account per network device and deny access to any login attempt where more than one account has tried to connect from the same network device.

In step it is determined if the number of NDIs per each EAT is within the acceptable range for the particular Host. In particular each Host also establishes rules for the number of NDIs from which each EAI is allowed to connect or in other words the number of different network devices from which an individual account is allowed to connect. For example Host may not be worried about an account coming from 5 or fewer PCs may want to be warned about an account using 6 10 PCs and may want to deny network access to any login that has attempted to connect from 11 or more PCs. Another Host may allow only one account per PC and deny access to any login attempt coming from a second network device. Thus these levels of concern remedies are adjustable by each Host in accordance with the invention. In step the account identified by the particular NDI and EAI pair which has met all of the tests set forth above is permitted access to the system of the particular network service provider and the data about the transaction connection is entered into the NDRD.

In step the server determines if the NDF is a duplicate such as if a hacker has deleted the previous NDI on the device but the NDF was identical to an existing NDF. If there is a duplicate NDF then the network service provider is notified in step and the user session is terminated. In step if the NDF is not duplicate indicating a new device the server returns a validation process acknowledgment message to the network server provider. In step the user is presented with a login dialog by the network service provider. In step the network service provider determines if a valid username and password are provided. If an invalid username or password is provided the user session is terminated in step . In step if a valid username and password are provided the network service provider sends the NDI of the device and end user account information EAI generated by the network service provider to the server. In step the server logs the NDI and EAI association into its database and updates various information for the device such as the last successful login date time total logins and other data about the device. In step the server checks the NDI and EAI status against the parameters of the network service provider. In step based on the network service provider rules the server sends the NDI EAI status to the network service provider. In step the network service provider terminates continues the user session based on the NDI EAI status returned from the server. Now a method for validating an existing user device will be described in more detail.

In step the server determines if the NDF and the NDI pair exists in the database. If there is not a match in the database then the network service provider is notified in step and the user session is terminated. In step the server determines if the NDI or NDF status is bad and if the status of either is bad the network service provider is notified and the user session is terminated in step . If the NDI and NDF statuses are good then in step the user is presented with a login dialog by the network service provider. In accordance with the invention the client and or the validation system may also present the login to the user and perform the user login process in addition to the validation processes. In step the network service provider determines if a valid username and password are provided. If an invalid username or password is provided the user session is terminated in step . In step if a valid username and password are provided the network service provider sends the NDI of the device and EAI to the server. In step the server logs the NDI and EAI association into its database and updates various information for the device such as the last successful login date time total logins and other data about the device. In step the server checks the NDI and EAI status against the parameters of the network service provider. In step based on the network service provider rules the server sends the NDI EAI status to the network service provider. In step the network service provider terminates continues the user session based on the NDI EAI status returned from the server.

Several examples of the operation of the above method will now be provided. As described above each Host will establish its own customized rules for every aspect of the present validation method. Because of this the same circumstances that result in denied access for an end user on one Host may not result in denied access on another Host. Thus the following examples are simply intended to illustrate some of the ways in which the present invention might be utilized.

Host identifies a problem with an account identified by an EAI of EAI2004. After closing the account within Host s system a Host administrator logs into the NDRD and searches the NDRD using a user interface to identify four additional NDIs used by EAI2004 and changes the status of each NDI such that they will never be allowed to connect to Host. In addition the administrator identifies 2 other EAIs that have used these NDI s to connect to Host. After researching the newly identified accounts they are determined to be potentially fraudulent and also closed. Thus the user is able to identify an account its associated network devices and other EAIs associated with the identified network devices that will be denied access to the system. In a first example an end user attempts to connect to Host from a NDI that has been identified by Host as having been used in a fraudulent transaction. Based on the status set by Host the user is denied access to the network. In a second example an end user attempts to connect to Host from a NDI that has been identified by Host as having been used in a suspicious manner. Based on the status set by Host the user is allowed access to the network but for every valid login and password combination provided by the end user that account is automatically disabled on Host s system and the user is prompted for a different user name and password.

In a third example an end user attempts to connect to Host from a NDI that has been identified by Host as having been used in a fraudulent transaction. Based on the NDI status set by Host and the fact that Host has identified Host as trusted the user is denied access to the network. In addition the NDI status for Host is changed to bad and the end user s account is closed on Host s system. In a fourth example an end user attempts to connect to Host from a NDI that has been identified by Host as having been used in a fraudulent transaction. Because Host has not been identified as trusted by Host this condition is ignored and the user is allowed access to the network.

In another example periodically an administrator from Host receives a report from the NDRD of all NDI s identified by trusted hosts as bad that have a status for Host of good including all the EAI s for Host associated with these NDIs. The administrator researches these accounts to determine the appropriate course of action. The administrator may then for example change the status of the NDIs and EAIs to bad and research associated user accounts within their system to identify potential fraudulent accounts.

In another example Host proactively screens account information for all accounts identified through the NDRD as sharing the same NDI and suspicious accounts are identified for further investigation. For example three accounts with stated addresses in three different countries that have logged in from the same network device would be identified as suspicious. Alternatively the fraud preventing system may automatically and periodically generate information from the NDRD based on the particular Host s requests. Now an example of the operation of an implementation of the fraud detection system in accordance with the invention will be provided.

Once a particular network service provider NSP has integrated the fraud detection client and system into its system the network service provider system may automatically request information. etc. from the fraud detection system. The request of information may occur for various reasons such as a new customer installation a customer login a customer purchase deposit attempt and a customer refund withdrawal attempt. In each situation the network service provider s client software may invoke the fraud detection client that may return a set of information that the client software to pass onto a backend system. In an implementation of the system the backend system of the network service provider may pass 1 a unique identifier which will be provided to the network service provider that signs up for the service that uniquely identifies the particular network service provider to the fraud detection system and permits the NDRD to store data according to the particular network service provider 2 a unique session identifier to identify the particular user access session to the particular network service provider 3 a unique customer identifier for the specific customer if available which it should be in all cases except new customer installation such as the EAI 4 an action code identifying the type of user account see below and 5 the information that the client provided via the API to the Server. The server may then respond via the API with an action response indicating a suggested course of action for the particular account information that it wishes to pass through to the client such as the ieSnare Client in a preferred embodiment of the invention or both. Now an example of the format of the API for the fraud detection system will be described in more detail.

In a preferred embodiment the API uses extensible mark up language XML to pass information between the backend system of the network service provider and the fraud detection server. The API is a simple but powerful way to automate common queries and interpret their responses.

In an alternative embodiment the fraud detection system may also use multi factor reputations. In particular the embodiment described above maintained the reputation of a network device. In this alternate embodiment the reputation of a network device or user account may be maintained using one or more reputation factors. The reputation factors that may be used to establish the reputation of the user account may include but are not limited to a credit card account number of the user a fingerprint of the user an email address of the user a phone number of the user a physical address of the user a cellular phone number of the user or any other information that contains evidence of the reputation of the user that may be transferred to the user account reputation. In accordance with the invention each reputation factor is filtered through a set of rules to determine if the reputation factor is applied to attributed to affects the reputation of the account. In accordance with the invention each service provider may have its own filtering mechanism with a unique set of filtering rules for the reputation factors. The filtering rules may be time sensitive date sensitive trust sensitive the reputation factor might be ignored if it is from an untrusted source relevancy etc. . . . . An example of a time or date sensitive filtering rule might be that a piece of evidence about a bad reputation such as late payment on a credit card might be filtered out and not affect the reputation of the account if it is more than 1 year old. An example of relevancy rule might be that a provider of on line gaming might decide to ignore and not apply evidence of a user returning more than a normal number of products to stores using the credit card as that evidence does not alone concern that particular provider. Once the reputation factors have been filtered by the provider they are combined together to determine the effect on the reputation of the account. In accordance with the invention the reputation factors are unique to a particular user such as a credit card number and are relevant to each account that the user has with different service providers. Thus in accordance with the invention the multiple different reputation factors may be cross correlated to generate a reputation of the user account that may as above be shared across a network.

To illustrate the use of a multiple factor reputation in accordance with the invention the following simple example is provided. In this example a new customer C logs onto eBay with a new network device D such as a laptop computer of the new customer C . The fraud detection system will generate a unique identifier for the network device D. The new customer uses a Visa account to establish the eBay account. Thus the new customer has a reputation that is inferred from the eBay account the device identifier and the Visa account assuming that eBay does not filter out the reputation evidence of the network device and Visa account. In this example a provider that is part of the network identifies that the Visa account has not paid its bills while another provider indicates that the same Visa account returns a lot of goods purchased with the credit card. This information about the Visa account is shared with the other providers that are part of the network and affect the overall reputation of the new customer C. In accordance with the invention the reputation of the account customer is maintained by the service provider while the reputation factors are managed by the fraud system of which the service provider is a customer.

In step the system may determine if access to a particular account is requested by a user using a particular network device. As with the embodiments above the account access may be to a third party web site or service wherein the third party is a customer of the fraud detection system in accordance with the invention. Thus in step the third party determines the unique identifier of the network device which may be stored in the fraud detection system database or generated when the network device attempts to login to the third party s service website and provides the unique identifier to the fraud detection system. To prevent fraud with respect to access to the end user account of the third party the third party may store information about one or more network devices each having a unique identifier that are approved to access the particular end user account. Alternatively the information about the network devices the list of approved network devices and the reputation factors see multiple reputation factor embodiment above may be stored by the reputation authority such as ioVation inc. which then provides the reputation information to the service provider. Thus in step the third party may compare the identifier of the network device currently trying to access the account against the list of approved devices. If the particular network device is not on the approved list then in step the system may notify the end user account holder of the access by the new network device. In step the end user account holder may approve the new network device or deny access to the new network device so that the end user account holder may add new network device s to his her approved list such as when the end user accesses his account from his work laptop computer which she he has not previously user to access the account. The end user may temporarily approve the network device for a limited time period or alternatively may add the network device to the approved network device list. In accordance with the invention the particular method of adding network devices to the approved list and how to handle unapproved devices is user or administrator configurable so that a first user may not permit access to any unapproved network devices while a second user may allow unapproved network devices to access the account as long as the user is notified.

If the new network device is approved by the end user or the network device is already on the approved list then in step access to the account of the end user is permitted. If the new network device is not on the approved list and is not later approved by the end user the new network device is denied access to the end user account. Thus even if a thief hacker has stolen your username and password for a particular account the thief hacker will be unable to access the account since the hacker does not also has a network device which is part of the approved list. Thus the fraud protection system offers another level of security to the end user account holder in addition to the typical username and password security. Thus a third party that is a customer of the fraud detection system is able to offer its end users more account security due to the fraud detection system.

While the foregoing has been with reference to a particular embodiment of the invention it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes in this embodiment may be made without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined by the appended claims.

