---

title: Systems and methods for providing financial service extensions
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for providing financial service extensions. In one implementation, a financial cloud system including a memory storing instructions and a processor configured to execute the instructions is provided. The instructions may be executed to perform a process associated with providing the financial service extensions. The process may include providing a platform application to a client device. The process may also include receiving data associated with a financial service extension to be used in connection with the platform application. The process may further include receiving configuration data associated with the financial service extension. The process may additionally include configuring, by the processor, the financial service extension for use with the platform application. The process may also include providing, by the processor, the financial service extension to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514492&OS=09514492&RS=09514492
owner: 
number: 09514492
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20131105
---
This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 722 939 filed Nov. 6 2012 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 722 626 filed Nov. 5 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 722 930 filed Nov. 6 2012 the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present application also relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 071 869 entitled Cloud Based Systems and Methods for Providing Consumer Financial Data filed Nov. 5 2013 which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to financial service extensions. In particular the present disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing financial service extensions to a cloud based platform.

Many consumers use mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones to access their banking and financial information. Consumers may download a banking or other financial service application to their mobile device to access various features offered by the financial service provider. The financial service application may be downloaded from a mobile software distribution platform such as the Apple iTunes App Store and the Android Play Marketplace store. Alternatively consumers can use web applications delivered over HTTPS which use either server side or client side processing to provide a banking experience within a browser on mobile devices.

Consumers may expect financial service applications to include various features such as account balances recent transactions account related alerts bill payments intra account transfers branch look up services and ATM location services. However it may be technologically and financially burdensome for financial institutions to offer these and other services within one banking application. Using currently available banking systems and methods financial institutions have to undertake significant development efforts to provide these and other application features and services in a manner that is compatible with various applications across multiple computing platforms.

Therefore there is a need for improved systems and methods that overcome these problems associated with providing a financial service application.

Consistent with a disclosed embodiment a financial cloud system is provided for providing financial service extensions. The system includes a memory storing instructions and a processor configured to execute the instructions. The instructions may be executed to perform a process associated with providing the financial service extensions. The process may include providing a platform application to a client device. The process may also include receiving data associated with a financial service extension to be used in connection with the platform application. The process may further include receiving configuration data associated with the financial service extension. The process may additionally include configuring by the processor the financial service extension for use with the platform application. The process may also include providing by the processor the financial service extension to the client device.

Consistent with another disclosed embodiment a mobile device is provided. The mobile device includes a memory storing instructions and a processor configured to execute the instructions to perform a process to provide financial service extensions. The process may include receiving data associated with a platform application. The process may also include storing in the memory the data associated with the platform application. The process may further include receiving data associated with a plurality of financial service extensions to be used in connection with the platform application. The process may additionally include providing the plurality of financial service extensions for use with the platform application.

Consistent with other disclosed embodiments a non transitory computer readable storage media may store program instructions which are executed by a processor and perform any of the methods described herein.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the claims.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar parts. While several illustrative embodiments are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the components illustrated in the drawings and the illustrative methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering removing or adding steps to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description is not limiting of the disclosed embodiments. Instead the proper scope is defined by the appended claims.

Disclosed embodiments provide systems and methods for providing financial service extensions. The financial service extensions may be built and provided in connection with a cloud based platform configured to deploy the financial service extensions to a mobile device. A user may access the financial service extensions through an existing mobile application configured to load the extensions. The financial service extensions may be provided and removed from the existing mobile application in a plug and play manner to allow for configuration and customization of the mobile application according to the choice of an entity providing the mobile application and or preferences of the user.

Disclosed embodiments provide extensible mobile financial service systems and methods that enable service providers to allow one or more third parties to provide content services and offers to consumers via a financial service extension. The mobile financial systems may further allow for a secure point of entry for third party content services and offers via the cloud based platform such as a mobile banking application provided by a financial institution. In this way third party services may be integrated into a financial institution system to allow consumers to use third party services through a common application.

In accordance with a disclosed embodiment system includes a cloud platform a banking system a third party service provider and a mobile device configured to communicate over a network which may include network and wireless carrier network . For example mobile device may communicate over wireless carrier network and may also communicate over network e.g. via a Wi Fi connection . Other components known to one of ordinary skill in the art may be included in system to process transmit provide and receive information consistent with the disclosed embodiments. For example in addition to or in place of mobile device one or more other client devices e.g. desktop computer laptop computer etc. may be included to communicate with the components of system .

Cloud platform may be a computer based system including computer system components such as one or more servers desktop computers workstations tablets hand held computing devices memory devices and or internal network s connecting the components. In one embodiment cloud platform may be a server that includes one or more processor s memory devices and interface components configured to provide a cloud based service. As used in this disclosure services processes or applications that are cloud based refer to scalable distributed execution of one or more software processes over a network using real or virtual server hardware. Cloud platform may be a single server or a distributed computer system including multiple servers or computers that interoperate to perform one or more of the processes and functionalities associated with the disclosed embodiments.

In some embodiments cloud platform may be a server that is associated with a financial institution. The financial institution may be for example a bank lender merchant credit card provider or any other entity that provides financial accounts to customers. The financial institution may manage cloud platform such that cloud platform may be used to perform financial services. In some embodiments the financial institution may be the same institution that is associated with banking system . In other embodiments the financial institution may be a different institution than that associated with banking system . In alternative embodiments cloud platform may be hosted and managed by an entity other than a financial institution such as a network service provider internet service provider telecommunications firm etc. These entities may execute business agreements with financial institutions enabling them to manage financial data via cloud platform .

Banking system may be a computer based system associated with a financial institution such as a bank credit union credit card issuer or other type of financial service entity that generates provides manages and or maintains financial service accounts. Financial service accounts may include for example credit card accounts checking accounts savings accounts loan accounts reward accounts and any other types of financial service account. Financial service accounts may be associated with electronic accounts such as a digital wallet or similar account that may be used to perform electronic transactions such as purchasing goods and or services online. Financial service accounts may also be associated with physical financial service account cards such as a credit or check card that a user may carry on their person and use to perform financial service transactions such as purchasing goods and or services at a point of sale POS terminal. Banking system may include infrastructure and components that are configured to generate and provide financial service accounts and financial service account cards e.g. credit cards check cards etc. . Banking system may also include infrastructures and components that are configured to store financial data associated with the financial service accounts.

In embodiments in which cloud platform is also associated with a financial institution banking system may be associated with the same or a different financial institution. In certain embodiments in which cloud platform and banking system are associated with the same financial institution cloud platform may be an integrated component of banking system . For example banking system may be an overall computing system associated with a financial institution with cloud platform being a component thereof.

Third party service provider may be a computer based system associated with a third party. For example third party service provider may be associated with a merchant configured to provide one or more services to consumers. Third party service provider may include one or more computing systems that are configured to perform computer implemented processes such as a server desktop laptop mobile device etc.

Banking system and third party service provider may be configured to communicate with cloud platform via network . Network may be any type of network that provides communications exchanges information and or facilitates the exchange of information between cloud platform and other components of system such as banking system third party service provider and or mobile device . In one embodiment network may be the Internet or any other suitable connection s that enables system to send and receive information between the components of system . In other embodiments one or more components of system may communicate directly through a dedicated communication link s not shown such as a link between cloud platform and banking system .

In some embodiments cloud platform may communicate with banking system and or third party service provider through one or more application programming interfaces APIs . The one or more APIs may be configured to allow for the transmission and receipt of data between components according to one or more processes associated with the provision of a particular service. For example a peer to peer P2P transfer API between cloud platform and third party service provider may allow for sharing and processing of particular data associated with completion of a P2P transfer such as a transfer of money from one consumer s account to another consumer s account.

Mobile device may be a client device in the form of one or more mobile computer based systems. For example mobile device may be a tablet or smartphone. In alternative embodiments another client device such as a desktop laptop computer server point of sale device kiosk ATM or the like may be included in system in place of or in addition to mobile device and perform some or all of the functions of mobile device . In an exemplary embodiment mobile device may be associated with a consumer that maintains one or more financial accounts with a financial institution associated with cloud platform banking system and or third party service provider .

In an exemplary embodiment mobile device may be a device that receives stores and or executes mobile applications. Mobile device may be configured with storage that stores one or more operating systems that perform known operating system functions when executed by one or more processors such as one or more software processes configured to be executed to run a mobile application.

Mobile device may also include communication software that when executed by a processor provides communications with network and wireless carrier network such as Web browser software tablet or smart hand held device networking software etc. In some embodiments mobile device may be configured to communicate with banking system and or third party service provider via network and or wireless carrier network . In these embodiments banking system and or third party service provider may be authorized to execute one or more software processes on mobile device via network and or wireless carrier network such as a mobile application or a web applet. Wireless carrier network may be a data service network configured to provide communications exchange information and or facilitate the exchange of information between components of system . It should be understood however that wireless carrier network may be any network configured to perform these functions. In certain embodiments wireless carrier network and network may be the same or otherwise related networks.

In an exemplary embodiment system may use infrastructures and components such as banking system and third party service provider and integrate them into cloud platform which becomes a point of entry and facilitates the integration of banking and third party services such that they are made available to mobile device through communication with cloud platform .

Memory may include one or more storage devices configured to store instructions used by processor to perform functions related to disclosed embodiments. For example memory may be configured with one or more software instructions that may perform one or more operations when executed by processor . The disclosed embodiments are not limited to separate programs or computers configured to perform dedicated tasks. For example memory may include a single program that performs the functions of server or a program could comprise multiple programs. Additionally processor may execute one or more programs located remotely from cloud server . For example banking system third party service provider and or mobile device may via cloud server access one or more remote programs that when executed perform functions related to certain disclosed embodiments. Memory may also store data that may reflect any type of information in any format that the system may use to perform operations consistent with the disclosed embodiments.

Cloud server may be communicatively connected to database s e.g. via network or database may be an integrated component of cloud platform and or cloud server . Database may include one or more memory devices that store information and are accessed and or managed through cloud server . By way of example database s may include Oracle databases Sybase databases or other relational databases or non relational databases such as Hadoop sequence files HBase or Cassandra. The databases or other files may include for example data and information related to the source and destination of a network request the data contained in the request etc. Database may include computing components e.g. database management system database server etc. configured to receive and process requests for data stored in memory devices of database s and to provide data from database s .

Processor s may include one or more known processing devices such as a microprocessor from the Pentium or Xeon family manufactured by Intel the Turion family manufactured by AMD or any of various processors manufactured by Sun Microsystems. The disclosed embodiments are not limited to any type of processor s configured in cloud server .

Interfaces may be one or more devices configured to allow data to be received and or transmitted by cloud server . Interfaces may include one or more digital and or analog communication devices that allow cloud server to communicate with other machines and devices such as other components of system .

Financial cloud service s may be configured to facilitate communication between cloud server and one or more of banking system third party service provider and mobile device . After receiving a request from one of these components cloud server may determine which financial cloud service may be associated with the particular request. For example cloud server may receive a request for account information from mobile device which cloud server may route to the appropriate financial cloud service i.e. a financial cloud service associated with retrieving account information . In another example cloud server may receive a request to process a third party service e.g. a P2P transfer which cloud server may route to a financial cloud service configured to gather data from the request and communicate with the appropriate third party service provider e.g. via an API to complete the request.

Financial cloud controller may be configured to provide a layer of security to cloud service . Financial cloud controller may include software that when executed by processor performs one or more security processes. The one or more security processes may be configured to authorize requests routed through financial cloud service . For example financial cloud controller may include a token authorization process configured to authenticate a data request before processing the request. If financial cloud controller determines that a request is not authorized e.g. a token is not received or cannot be authenticated a service request e.g. a request for account information may be denied.

Financial cloud library may be one or more components configured to store data locally on cloud server . For example financial cloud library may store consumer account information such as financial account information. The financial account information may be received from banking system and authorized to be stored locally. In this way financial cloud library may allow financial account information to be readily available within cloud server .

In one example financial cloud service may be used to respond to a request from mobile device for financial account information e.g. account number account balance recent transactions etc. . Financial cloud service may make a request to an appropriate financial cloud library for the financial account information. Financial cloud controller may determine if the financial cloud service is authorized to receive the account information and if so transfer the account information from financial cloud library to financial cloud service for eventual transmission to mobile device .

Interface may include one or more devices configured to allow data to be received and or transmitted by mobile device . For example interface may include a user interface such as a display configured to present data to a user. Interface may also include an input device such as a keyboard or touchscreen configured to receive input data from a user. Interface may also include a component configured to connect mobile device to mobile carrier network .

In an exemplary embodiment platform application may be a web based mobile application configured to be used in connection with cloud platform . It should be understood however that platform application is not necessarily a mobile application and could be instead by another web based service such as a web page available on mobile device or another client device such as a laptop or desktop computer. In any instance platform application may originate from cloud platform and cloud server and be provided to mobile device e.g. downloaded over wireless carrier network .

In an exemplary embodiment platform application may be configured as a financial institution e.g. banking application. Platform application may be configured to provide financial services to a consumer via hosting of one or more extensions . Extensions may include one or more programs configured to be executed by processor to make one or more services available within platform application . Extensions may be pluggable software components configured to be loaded for use within platform application . For example extensions may be plug and play services that may be deployed over the air e.g. via wireless carrier network and accessed via platform application with immediate availability. In this way extensions may be provided to mobile device and platform application in real time without updating of the platform application . Similarly extensions may be removed or deactivated i.e. unplugged such that they are no longer accessible via platform application .

Extensions may include application extensions and advertisement extensions . Application extensions may be associated with one or more services that may be integrated into platform application and made available to a consumer associated with mobile device . Each application extension may be an application or other software service configured to run within platform application and configured to communicate with cloud server e.g. via a mobile device cloud API . Cloud server may be configured to receive requests from application extension and to process those requests in conjunction with banking system and or third party service provider if necessary.

In an exemplary embodiment each application extension may be associated with a financial service. For example application extensions may include applications associated with P2P payments and or gift card purchase services. Advertisement extensions may be programs that when executed by processor are configured to provide one or more advertisements offers or other content to mobile device . As with application extensions advertisement extensions may be configured to run within platform application . In this way applications advertisements offers and other content may be provided to a user of mobile device within a single mobile application.

In some embodiments application extensions and advertisement extensions may be configured to communicate with one or more hardware inputs . Hardware inputs may include components of mobile device configured to provide particular data. For example hardware input may include a GPS device configured to provide a location of mobile device to an application extension or advertisement extension as input data. In this way particularized use of an extension may be possible such as to provide a relevant financial service e.g. map of nearby branch locations or relevant advertisement e.g. associated with nearby merchants .

Platform application may be provided with any combination and amount of extensions including application extensions advertisement extensions and or any other type of extensions . The extensions may be configured by cloud platform and selectively deployed to mobile device for access via platform application . Identification of the extensions that are to be deployed and plugged in to platform application may be determined by an entity that provides platform application e.g. a financial institution a user e.g. the consumer and or a third party.

As shown in one or more icon regions may be displayed in a navigation region of the user interface e.g. across the top of the display . Each icon region may display one or more icons representing a discrete application extension . If an icon icon region is selected the associated application extension may be opened. For example instructions associated with the application extension may be executed causing the user interface to change and the application extension to be displayed in another extensible region e.g. a full screen extensible region as indicated by the arrows in .

In addition or alternatively one or more tile regions may display an application extension . Tile regions may display the application extension within the tile region throughout use of the extension and or may cause user interface to change to display another extensible region as shown in .

As shown in extensible regions may include one or more tile regions displayed in any portion of a user interface . Each tile region may be configured to display an advertisement extension to provide an advertisement offer or other content to the consumer. If a tile region is selected the associated advertisement offer or other content may cause processor to execute software instructions to provide an appropriate response to the selection. For example selection of a tile region containing an advertisement extension may result in the launching of a web browsing session solicitation of customer contact information or display of a video for consumption by the consumer.

The arrangement of extensible regions within the user interface of the platform application may be determined by an entity associated with cloud platform . Further the entity may determine which application extensions and advertisement extensions to provide to platform application . In the embodiments in which cloud platform and cloud server are associated with a financial institution each extensible region of the platform application may be configured to provide a particular financial service e.g. via an application extension and or a particular financial advertisement e.g. via an advertisement extension . In this way platform application may be a financial service application configured to provide various financial services advertisements offers and other content through the financial institution and any associated banking systems and or third party service providers . The financial institution may customize the financial service application through selection of the application extensions and advertisement extensions to be made available in the extensible regions of a user interface associated with platform application .

Cloud server may receive data identifying one or more of extensions to be provided to a platform application step . The received data may include an indication of selection a particular one or more of extensions by a user. For example a user associated with a financial institution may select one of extensions to be available through a platform application associated with the financial institution and input data to identify the extension . The selected extension may be an application extension configured to provide a third party service through a particular third party service provider e.g. P2P transfers or an advertisement extension configured to provide an advertisement offer or other content e.g. a savings deal associated with a merchant . The received data may identify the particular type of extension .

Cloud server may also receive data identifying the platform application s that may receive the identified extension step . For example a selected extension may be intended to be provided to a platform application associated with a particular financial institution. The received data may identify the platform application s associated with that financial institution. Further the received data may identify platform applications associated with particular users or categories of users. For example one of extensions may be intended to be provided to users enrolled in a particular rewards program users in a particular area users of a particular age etc. Server may receive data and execute software instructions to determine a set of platform applications and or mobile devices to be provided with the extension . For example a financial cloud service may generate a request to search a financial cloud library for particular users associated with the received identifying information.

Cloud server may also receive data associated with providing the extension to a selected platform application step . The data associated with providing the extension may include data configured to initialize the platform application extension for use with the components of system . For example cloud server may receive a financial cloud service associated with the extension and configured to manage performance of processes associated with the extension . In another example cloud server may receive data identifying one or more existing financial cloud services configured to manage extension .

The received initialization data may also include information identifying a banking system and or third party service provider associated with the extension . The data may include communication channels that may be used to transmit data between the identified banking system and or third party service provider and cloud server . For example the initialization data may identify a particular banking system API or third party service API that may be used to perform processes associated with the extension . Cloud server may receive and store software instructions that when executed allow for communication via the identified API. The instructions may be stored as part of a financial cloud service associated with the extension .

In certain aspects the received data associated with providing the extension may be programs and protocol configured to allow the extension to function when called upon e.g. used by a user. In addition to setting up the appropriate functionality cloud server may also configure the extension for use within the platform application step . For example cloud server may receive configuration data from one or more sources e.g. users . The configuration data may include software instructions configured to match the extension to a particular aspect of mobile device and or platform application . For example configuration data may include display data including a particular extensible region to receive an icon or tile for presentation of the extension as well as an extensible region for display of the extension after selection by a user of mobile device . The configuration data may also include information specific to mobile device such as display DPI display height and width extensible region height and width model of mobile device mobile operating system and user identifying information. The configuration data may allow for appropriate presentation and use of the extension with the platform application .

Based on the received initialization data step and configuration data step cloud server may provide the extension to the platform application step . This may be done by cloud server receiving e.g. from a user or transmitting e.g. to mobile device an enabling instruction configured to allow for the communication of data associated with the extension across system . For example cloud server may provide configuration data to mobile device which may execute software instructions to display the extension within platform application . Mobile device may store these and additional instructions configured to provide functionality to the extension such that it may be used by a consumer. Similarly communication between cloud server and banking system and or financial service provide may be enabled.

To perform to the exemplary configuration process cloud server may receive configuration data step . The configuration data may be provided based at least in part on a selection by a user. For example the configuration of the platform application and extension may be chosen by an entity associated with cloud server e.g. a financial institution . The data configuration may allow the entity to provide the extension to a consumer in a customized manner. For example the configuration data may include the enabling of an extension in favor of another extension that was previously available. In another example the configuration data may include other customization aspects such as what to display to a user e.g. a user interface . In other embodiments the configuration data may be received from mobile device after being input by a consumer user of mobile device . For example the consumer may choose which extensions the consumer wants to be available within platform application which may be transmitted and received by cloud server as configuration data.

As has been described the configuration data may include data associated with the integration of the extension into platform application . Based on the received configuration data cloud server may determine an extensible region and or of the platform application for containing the extension step .

In one embodiment the extension may be an application extension . The configuration data may include an extensible region for display of an icon within associated with the application extension e.g. an icon region . The extensible region may be associated with instructions such that when extensible region is selected by a user the application extension may be caused to run within another extensible region such as an extensible region e.g. full screen . In another example the configuration data may include an extensible region as a tile region for display of the application extension .

In another example the extension may be an advertisement extension . The configuration data may include a tile region as an extensible region for display of the advertisement extension as well as a particular result process to be performed if the tile region is selected e.g. redirect mobile device to a web page associated with the advertisement extension .

The configuration data may also include an indication of whether the extension replaces another extension which may be determined by cloud server step . For example a particular extensible region such as a tile region of a navigation screen may be configured to display and run one extension . In order to customize the platform application the extension associated with that particular tile region may be switched with other extensions . In such an instance the configuration data may include an instruction to deactivate another extension step . Deactivation of another extension may include execution of software instructions to remove the extension from the extensible region which may include removal of all data associated with the extension an instruction to prevent display of the extension or some other deactivation process.

The configuration data may additionally or alternatively include an indication of whether a navigation feature is to be included in an extensible region step . For example the configuration data may include an indication of an icon region to be used for display of an icon associated with the extension . If such a feature is to be included the configuration data may include instructions for adding the feature to an appropriate icon region step . It should be understood that the configuration data may also include an indication that an existing feature in an icon region may be replaced by the feature of the extension being configured for the platform application . In such an instance the feature and extension being replaced may be deactivated or configured for movement to another extensible region . Further it should be understood that other features which may not necessarily be navigation features may be added to an extensible region using the same or similar processing.

The configuration process depicted in may allow one or more of extensions to be prepared for deployment to platform application . The configuration process may also allow for on the fly customization of a platform application since existing extensions may be deactivated in favor of a different extension . In this way particular services associated with application extensions and advertisements and or offers associated with advertisement extensions may be changed as desired. It should be understood however that the configuration process depicted in is an example and that other processes and or other steps may be included in configuring an extension .

In addition to providing one or more of extensions to a platform application cloud sever may be configured to update an extension . is a flowchart of a process for updating an extension consistent with disclosed embodiments. In certain embodiments cloud server may execute software instructions to perform processes associated with updating one or more of extensions . In some aspects the updating processes may be configured to modify an extension already deployed to platform application . In this way the extension may be changed without being replaced by another extension further allowing for customization of platform application .

To perform an extension update cloud server may receive configuration data associated with the update step . The configuration data may include instructions for updating a particular aspect of an extension . For example the update may include modifying application extension to provide an additional functionality or modifying an advertisement extension to provide a new offer or different content. In some embodiments the configuration data may include data input by a consumer using mobile device . For example a consumer may choose which features of a particular extension that they want to be available and mobile device may transmit the received preferences to cloud server as configuration data.

To update the application platform extension cloud server may interpret the configuration data to identify the extension to be updated step . In this way cloud server may also determine the appropriate platform applications and or mobile devices to which to provide the update. For example the configuration data may indicate that a particular extension for platform applications associated with a particular financial institution should receive the update. In other embodiments the configuration data may apply only to a particular extension associated with one consumer s mobile device and platform application based on their received preferences.

After the extension to be modified is identified cloud server may perform one or more processes to update the extension step . Cloud server may transmit configuration data to mobile device such as over wireless carrier network . Mobile device may be configured to receive the configuration data related to the update and execute software instructions to perform one or more processes to implement the update.

Through processes and cloud server may integrate extension into a platform application to allow for a customizable application that includes various service applications and advertisements. In some embodiments the platform application and extensions may be associated with providing a customizable financial services application.

Cloud server may receive a service request associated with extension from mobile device step . As described above the service request may be a financial service request. In one embodiment the service request may be associated with a request for a P2P transfer of money.

Cloud server may further be configured to process the service request step . In order to process the service request cloud server may determine a financial cloud service associated with the particular extension and or service request. The financial cloud service may execute software instructions to perform appropriate processes configured to process the service request. For example financial cloud service may receive the service request from the extension and may facilitate communication with other components of cloud server e.g. financial cloud controller and financial cloud library banking system and or third party service provider .

To further process the service request cloud server may determine whether to initiate communications with a service provider such as banking system and or third party service provider step . For example in the embodiment in which the service request is associated with a third party P2P transfer service cloud server may communicate with a third party P2P transfer service provide to complete a transaction e.g. transfer of money associated with the service request.

If cloud server makes a determination to contact a service provider cloud server may transmit data to the service provider such as over network step . The appropriate financial cloud service may be programmed to gather the data to be sent the service provider so that the service provider may be able to complete the service request. For example the financial cloud service may be configured to gather account information e.g. identification of financial account financial account details and service request information e.g. amount of transfer and transmit associated data to the service provider.

After receiving the data and locally processing the request the service provider e.g. third party service provider may transmit a data response which may be received by cloud server step . After receiving the response or if communication with a service provider was not performed cloud server may determine a result of the service request step . For example cloud server may determine if the service request was successful unsuccessful incomplete approved denied etc. Cloud server may execute additional instructions to determine whether to perform further processing or whether the process may be terminated.

In one embodiment cloud server may provide the determined result to mobile device using the extension associated with the service request step . The result may include the result of the service request e.g. completed denied etc. and or a request for additional information from the consumer and or mobile device to further processing of the request.

Financial cloud service may gather the data received with the service request from mobile device step . For example financial cloud service may identify an amount of a P2P transfer. Financial cloud service may proceed to determine if additional data for the service request is stored in cloud platform e.g. cloud server step . If there is additional data stored in the cloud platform e.g. financial account information financial cloud service may generate a request for the data step .

In one embodiment a request for data may be generated by a cloud server via a financial cloud service . The request may be processed using financial cloud controller . Financial cloud controller may perform one or more security processes to approve or deny the request for data step . If the request is denied e.g. not authorized or authenticated financial cloud controller may generate an error which may be transmitted back to mobile device via financial cloud service step . If the request is approved financial cloud controller may perform one or more processes to receive the data step . For example financial cloud controller may communicate with a financial cloud library which may supply the requested data.

As a result of this process financial cloud service may have gathered data from mobile device and cloud platform for completing the service request. Financial cloud service may continue to process the service request by transmitting a result to the mobile device e.g. to complete a service request for account information or by performing further processing via communication with a service provider e.g. to complete a P2P transfer request .

The processes depicted in may allow for a consumer to use extension of a platform application to perform one or more services e.g. financial services through the facilitation of cloud platform . Cloud platform may be configured to store financial account information that may be used to complete requested services such as financial account information received from banking system and or as a result of integration with banking system . The stored consumer financial account information may allow for secure integration of financial services through the platform application .

Cloud platform may be configured to complete service requests by transmitting financial account information to service providers e.g. third party service provider from a secure networked infrastructure so that a consumer may access a variety of services and initiate transactions directly from a platform application associated with a financial institution. In this way cloud platform may use the consumer s accounts associated with the financial institution as a funding mechanism by which third party services offers and or content are purchased or redeemed by the consumer.

Examples of financial services that may be provided via platform application by way of one or more of extensions include the ability of a consumer to view a list of financial institution accounts e.g. checking savings credit card mortgage etc. the ability to view the balance of any particular account initiation of a fund transfer initiation of a P2P fund transfer purchase of gift cards initiation of other types of mobile payment transactions offer and coupon redemption viewing of stock quotes purchasing of stocks credit FICA score tracking receipt spending tracking and the like.

In certain embodiments mobile device may receive and store platform application step . The platform application may be configured to be executed by processor to display one or more user interfaces that include one or more extensible regions .

Mobile device may receive data associated with extension to be used in conjunction with platform application step . The data associated with the extension may include configuration data. Mobile device may interpret the configuration data to determine the manner in which to integrate the extension into the platform application . For example the configuration data may include an extensible region in which the extension may be provided. The extensible region may include identification of one or more icon regions in a navigation menu or a tile regions to which to provide the extension or an aspect of the extension .

Mobile device may proceed to display the platform application to the consumer with the extension presented in the appropriate extensible regions step . In some embodiments mobile device may be configured such that a user may use an interface of mobile device to select modify and or otherwise use each extension displayed in an extensible region . In this way the consumer may be allowed to interact with the platform application and the displayed extensions .

Mobile device may receive a user request from the consumer step . The user request may be one of several types of requests such as requests to perform a service associated with extension a request to change platform application and or extension etc. In one example the request may be associated with a financial service offered by one of the extension . The user may select the extension using an interface and associated data may be received by mobile device . The requested financial service may be to view financial account information perform a banking service e.g. intra account fund transfer perform a third party service e.g. purchase a gift card etc. In another example the request may be a request to add remove replace or modify extension . For example the user may seek to customize the extensions associated wither platform application .

In either instance mobile device may transmit data associated with the user request to cloud server step . Cloud server may perform one or more processes to complete the request. For example cloud server may obtain account information communicate with third party service provider to complete a financial service or perform one or more processes to accommodate the user request for modification of the available extension .

After cloud server processes the request mobile device may receive a result of the request step . The result may be requested information confirmation of a completed financial service a request for additional information modification of extension etc. The result may be displayed to the consumer step via an interface .

Navigation bar may be configured to be extensible such that additional icons representing one or more financial service extensions may be added and such that existing icons may be removed. Each icon region may be configured such that selection of the icon and or icon region may result in initialization of an associated financial service extension which may be caused to be displayed in another extensible region such as a full screen region. In this way financial institution and or third party service information may be displayed to the consumer such that the consumer may use the financial service extension to receive information or further request a financial service.

Account dashboard may also include additional extensible regions in the form of tile regions . Each tile region may be configured as a financial service extension which may be an application extension or an advertisement extension . Each financial service extension may be integrated into the user interface of account dashboard . Further each tile region may be configured to provide and display information such as financial data specific to a particular user s financial account such as a checking account savings account or credit card account. In an embodiment one or more tile regions may be configured to display checking account information while another tile region may be configured to display savings account information.

Further within a given tile region account specific information such as amount of interest earned recent financial activity or transactions available balance etc. may be provided. Tile regions can be further configured to provide data represented as charts graphs or any other visual representations of data.

The third party financial service extensions may be configured to provide any type of third party content e.g. advertisements offers product purchases P2P services etc. . In this way the financial institution associated with the platform application may be allowed to provide new features and functionality to the platform application through integration of third party services.

User interface may further include account details including detailed account transaction information. Each tile region may further include selectable regions that can be configured to respond to user input and trigger another extensible region e.g. another tile region to be presented in association with the selection.

In one embodiment data associated with the transaction detail e.g. metadata can be analyzed and correlated to a particular third party financial service application to provide a targeted consumer offer that relates to the presented transaction. In this way financial service extensions may be further used in conjunction with each other to provide an integrated financial service experience.

The examples of financial service extensions depicted in generally relate to viewing financial account information and performing financial transactions associated with the financial accounts. It should be understood however that financial service extensions may include other types of services which may or may not be directly related to a financial institution. For example in one embodiment a customer service extension may be provided for use with a platform application which may be installed on mobile device . The user of mobile device may use the customer service extension to contact a customer service center. depict exemplary systems and methods that may be associated with a customer service extension.

When the user selects item for promotions a promotions extension may be initiated and user interface may display another user interface not shown showing promotions to the user. Promotions may include any suitable promotions for products or services such as those described with respect to advertisement extensions . Promotions shown to the user may be standard promotions or customized promotions. Customized promotions may be customized based on the user s age education income or other existing account information the user s interests or the user s historical contact with customer service center.

As shown in menu may display a chat icon representing contacting a customer service representative through an online chat function. While the online chat function may be associated with a customer service extension it should be understood that the online chat function may be an integrated component of platform application e.g. not provided as an extension or mobile device e.g. a separate mobile application . The online chat function may also use an online chat application provided by a third party which may be provided as a third party extension through cloud server . When the customer selects chat icon platform application may start the third party online chat extension or an integrated online chat function associated with platform application .

Referring to menu may display a call icon representing contacting a customer service representative through a telephone such as a telephone function of mobile device . When the customer selects call icon platform application may start a call function of mobile device or may display a message requesting the customer to call a customer service phone number using another phone.

Referring to menu may also display a video chat icon representing contacting a customer service representative using a video chat function. The video chat function may be an extension a component of platform application or a separate mobile application on mobile device . The video chat function may be associated with a third party video chat application either through mobile device or through cloud server via a third party extension. When the customer selects video chat icon platform application may start the corresponding video chat function or application.

Referring to when the customer selects one of the communication methods discussed above or when the customer selects item for quick connection to a customer service representative mobile device may send a request to connect to a customer service center. Mobile device may also transmit context information to the customer service center. The context information may be transmitted substantially simultaneously when the customer selects either quick connection item or any one of the communication options displayed in . The customer service center may forward the context information to a terminal e.g. a computer tablet smartphone etc. being used by a customer service representative to help the customer service representative understand the issues of the customer. The context information may include various information that platform application or an associated extension may record regarding the user s interaction with platform application and or extension . For example the context information may include the user s name address and account information such as account type balance transaction history etc. The context information may also include history information related to the user s interactions with platform application and or extension such as the user s selection of one of the customer service topics or the user s selections of the first item and then subsequently the item . For example platform application may record a chain of selections made by the user at different levels of extensions.

Mobile device may receive a user selection of customer services from a first level category step . The first level category may be for example menu shown in which may include Customer Services item . The user may select Customer Services item . In some embodiments selection of item may initiate the customer service extension.

Next mobile device may display a first user interface corresponding to customer services step . For example after the user selects Customer Services item mobile device may display menu as shown in . Mobile device may receive a user selection of an account type for customer services from a second level category step . For example the user may select first item from the second level category shown in which includes items .

Next mobile device may receive a user selection of a customer service topic step . For example after the user selects item from the second level category in the user may select the first customer service topic from a third level category which may include topics shown in . Mobile device may further receive user selection of a communication option for contacting a customer service representative step . For example the user may select chat icon from . Mobile device may then connect to a customer service center through the user selected communication option step . Mobile device may use the customer service extension to connect to a customer service center associated with a financial institution and or a third party. The connection may be made via communication with cloud server and one or more third party service providers .

Next mobile device may transmit context information to the customer service center step . The context information may be transmitted substantially simultaneously with the connection to the customer service center via cloud server . The customer service center may make the context information available to a customer representative so that the customer representative can understand the question or issue that the user has without requiring the user to repeat the question or issue the user has. For example the customer service center may forward the context information to a terminal e.g. a computer tablet smartphone etc. being used by a customer service representative to help the customer service representative understand the issues of the customer. This may result in more efficient and higher quality customer services. After step the process may end.

A user may control mobile device to execute instructions to perform process to use a customer service extension associated with platform application . In this way the user may communicate with a customer service center through cloud server which may allow for the convenient use of account information stored in cloud server . Further the integration of the customer service extension into platform application may allow for additional information such as context information associated with use of platform application or other extensions to be supplied to a customer service center for use in addressing customer requests and issues.

The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration. It is not exhaustive and is not limited to the precise forms or embodiments disclosed. Modifications and adaptations will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the disclosed embodiments. For example the described implementations include software but systems and methods consistent with the disclosed embodiments be implemented as a combination of hardware and software or in hardware alone. Examples of hardware include computing or processing systems including personal computers servers laptops mainframes micro processors and the like. Additionally although aspects of the disclosed embodiments are described as being stored in memory one skilled in the art will appreciate that these aspects can also be stored on other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices for example hard disks floppy disks or CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM USB media DVD or other optical drive media.

Computer programs based on the written description and disclosed methods are within the skill of an experienced developer. The various programs or program modules can be created using any of the techniques known to one skilled in the art or can be designed in connection with existing software. For example program sections or program modules can be designed in or by means of .Net Framework .Net Compact Framework and related languages such as Visual Basic C etc. Java C Objective C HTML HTML AJAX combinations XML or HTML with included Java applets. One or more of such software sections or modules can be integrated into a computer system or existing e mail or browser software.

Moreover while illustrative embodiments have been described herein the scope of any and all embodiments having equivalent elements modifications omissions combinations e.g. of aspects across various embodiments adaptations and or alterations as would be appreciated by those skilled in the art based on the present disclosure. The limitations in the claims are to be interpreted broadly based on the language employed in the claims and not limited to examples described in the present specification or during the prosecution of the application. The examples are to be construed as non exclusive. Furthermore the steps of the disclosed routines may be modified in any manner including by reordering steps and or inserting or deleting steps. It is intended therefore that the specification and examples be considered as illustrative only with a true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims and their full scope of equivalents.

