---

title: Identifying search matches and altered search results
abstract: In embodiments of identifying search matches and altered search results, a query is received from a device application, and a data search is initiated based on the query that specifies search terms. A search result set of search result items is then received, and properties of a search result item are correlated with the search result item, where the properties indicate why the search result item was returned as part of the search result set. Search terms of the query are also associated with respective properties of the search result item to indicate a correspondence of a search term with a property of the search result item. The search result set of the search result items can then be returned to the device application along with the properties of each search result item and the associated search terms of the query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563675&OS=09563675&RS=09563675
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09563675
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130503
---
Many types of computing devices such as computers mobile phones and tablet devices include client applications and or processes that perform data searches and other query functions. Currently when a query is initiated there is no indication as to why the particular items that are returned are included in a set of query results. This leaves the application or process that initiated the query to attempt a determination as to why a query result item is returned so that the application or process can properly highlight or otherwise indicate the applicability of the query result item such as when displayed for user feedback.

The attempts by an application or process that initiated a query to determine why particular query result items are returned can be inconsistent and sometimes inaccurate. For example incorrect words may be matched in response to a query or alternatively no matches for the query are found. In different languages some equivalent words may have different lengths or formats and may not be returned as a match to a query. Additionally some searching techniques implement postfix matching while others implement a prefix matching scheme and query alterations and linguistic equivalence may not be accounted for. These inconsistent search criteria may also result in inconsistent and or inaccurate query results lending to a poor user experience.

This Summary introduces features and concepts of identifying search matches and altered search results which is further described below in the Detailed Description and or shown in the Figures. This Summary should not be considered to describe essential features of the claimed subject matter nor used to determine or limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Identifying search matches and altered search results is described. In embodiments a query is received from a device application and a data search is initiated based on the query that specifies search terms. A search result set of search result items is then received and properties of a search result item are correlated with the search result item where the properties indicate why the search result item was returned as part of the search result set. Search terms of the query are also associated with respective properties of the search result item to indicate a correspondence of a search term with a property of the search result item. The search result set of the search result items can then be returned to the device application along with the properties of each search result item and the associated search terms of the query.

In implementations a search result item includes one or more presentation templates that indicate how the search result item can be displayed in a search result user interface. A presentation template can be selected for the search result item based on the properties of the search result item. A search input can be received to further filter the search result set for a subset of the search result items. The filtered search result items are determined responsive to the search input and the subset of the search result items are returned along with the properties that correlate to each of the search result items in the subset.

In implementations a property query can be initiated for a search result item to determine the properties that are correlated with the search result item and the properties that are correlated with the search result item are received responsive to the property query. The search result item can self express why the item was returned as part of the search result set based on the properties of the search result item. Additionally the query as originally initiated can be received back responsive to the property query to associate the search terms of the query with the respective properties of the search result item. Additionally a presentation template for a property that is correlated with the search result item can be received responsive to the property query where the presentation template indicates how the search result item can be displayed in a search result user interface based on the property that is correlated with the search result item.

Embodiments of identifying search matches and altered search results are described and may be implemented by any type of computing device or system that supports or implements queries and other data searches. A query consumer such as a device application client application or search indexer can identify and determine the properties of a search result item that caused the search result item to be relevant and included in a query search result set. A query consumer can also identify the particular parts of a property that are matched to a query. A search result item can self express why the search result item was returned as part of a search result set based on the properties of the search result item and the properties that were matched to a query. Altered search result items can also be expressed in the search result property matching. A search result item can also include presentation templates that indicate how a search result item is displayed in a search result user interface.

While features and concepts of identifying search matches and altered search results can be implemented in any number of different devices systems networks environments and or configurations embodiments of identifying search matches and altered search results are described in the context of the following example devices systems and methods.

The computing device can include device applications such as client applications and or a search indexer that may initiate or facilitate a query for a data search. The device applications client applications and or the search indexer are also referred to herein as query consumers that facilitate a search of content and receive query search results such as a client music application that searches for music files or a client email application that searches emails. For example a client application may be an email client application that is implemented to facilitate a user accessing reading generating and sending emails. A user of the computing device may initiate a query such as to locate past emails on a particular date and or emails that discuss a particular topic which can be searched based on a word or phrase that the emails are likely to contain. The query includes search terms of the query. In the email search example the search terms may include the date e.g. month day and or year terms as well as a word or words in a phrase.

The search indexer may be implemented to index and search all device data and content on the computing device as well as network based stored data also referred to as cloud based or in the cloud shown as cloud storage . For example an email client application may be associated with a Web based data hosting service implemented as the cloud storage . The cloud storage data and or the device data and content can include but is not limited to file names file contents file directory paths metadata music files video files emails documents images text etc. that may be searched indexed and or displayed as search results in a user interface.

Any of the devices described herein can communicate via a network such as for data communication between the computing device and the cloud storage and the network can be implemented to include a wired and or a wireless network. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by a mobile network operator and or other network operators such as a communication service provider mobile phone provider and or Internet service provider.

The computing device includes a search module that can be implemented as a software application e.g. executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media such as any suitable memory device or electronic data storage. The computing device can be implemented with computer readable storage media as described with reference to the example device shown in . Additionally the computing device can be executed with a processing system to implement embodiments of identifying search matches and altered search results as described herein. As described herein the search module may be any type of search application or device that supports search applications and or search functions such as in the form of a query for a data search. The search module may also expose application program interfaces APIs that are utilized by the device applications to interface query requests with the search module .

In embodiments the search module is implemented to receive a query that includes the search terms from a device application and initiate a data search of the device data and content and or initiate a data search of the cloud storage . The computing device can include a search folder to maintain a search result set of search result items that are received responsive to the query. An example search result item illustrates that each of the search result items may include properties and or presentation templates that are associated with a respective search result item. A property of a search result item may be content a filename part of a document a date an item in a directory path an author associated with a search result item a document owner and or any other type of property that may be associated with a particular search result item.

In embodiments the search module attaches data to each search result item that indicates the properties of a search result item that are the basis for the search result item being included in the search result set . A hit property refers to a property of a search result item that caused the search result item to be returned as part of the query search result set . The search module is implemented to correlate one or more properties of a search result item with the search result item where the properties indicate why the search result item was returned as part of the search result set . The search module is also implemented to associate a search term of the query with a property of the search result item to indicate a correspondence of the search term with the property of the search result item.

The presentation templates that are associated with a search result item indicate how the search result item can be displayed in a search result user interface. For example a search query of user contacts may return a phone number for a particular contact e.g. a person or business listed in the contacts of a client application . Rather than simply displaying the phone number in a search results user interface a presentation template that is associated with the search result item can indicate to display a name of the contact and a mobile phone icon to indicate the mobile phone number of the contact. The search module can determine and select a presentation template to display a search result item in a search results user interface based on the returned properties of the search result item.

The presentation templates may include a user interface template that can be used to display multiple returned properties and or may include a type user interface template that can be used when most of the returned properties are of a particular type e.g. music pictures etc. . Alternatively or in addition to the presentation templates a search result item may also include rules that indicate or suggest how the search result item and or the overall search results should be represented in a user interface based on the properties that lend to the search result item being part of the search result set.

The search module can then return the search result set of the search result items to the device application that initiated the query along with the properties of the respective search result items and the search terms of the query that are associated with the properties of the search result items. In implementations a query hits property of a device operating system can be exposed that the search indexer attaches to a search result item returned from the query . This query hits property can be a list of the properties such as in a multi string field that indicate which properties caused the search result item to be returned as part of the query search result set .

Queries that are performed via a search API of the search module can access the search folder where the original information about the query can be stored such as the query string and language of the query so that a search result item can request the information from the folder. The information of the query can also be passed from the search folder to the search result item. Additionally the search module is implemented such that a search result item or a query consumer directly can determine which of the query hits properties are relevant to a search result item being included in the search result set .

In implementations an API includes a hit finder interface that a query consumer e.g. device applications passes content for searching as well as the property that the content represents if any. The query consumer can parse the query hits property directly and call this API for each hit property. A different API can be exposed by the search result item itself as opposed to being stand alone like the hit finder interface. This enables the search result item to express the relevant information itself such as in a table mapping of hit properties to an array of hits within that property. The query consumer can use a get search hits interface to determine why a search result item was included in the query search result set.

As part of determining the relevancy of the search result items modifications in the search terms of the query can be applied to the properties of a search result item to improve the accuracy of the search result set and what is returned to a query consumer. In embodiments a word breaker can be implemented as a component e.g. a software module or component of the search module and the word breaker is implemented to identify linguistically appropriate words or matches in a search query string. For example the word breaker can identify words in different formats and languages such as for languages that do not use spaces between words e.g. Japanese Chinese etc. or for languages that have many compound words e.g. German etc. . The word breaker may also implement a normalized string comparison to ignore linguistically unimportant differences between words and other query strings such as for case character width kana type in Japanese and for some languages accents and diacritics that denote phonetic differences.

Examples of search term modifications can include any type of text and or format changes. For example a query of MSFT will also include results on Microsoft a query of 3 1 13 will also include hits on Mar. 1 2013 and a query of March will also include hits on 8 as the eighth calendar month. The search term modifications can also account for different language formats such as if user searches for 19 3 with a comma in a Polish language format the search will include a result of 19.3 with a point in English language format recognizing a likely search intention of the user. A typical search technique may perform a text string search for March and only return instances and variations of the text string such as March march marched etc. However in implementations of the techniques described herein the search module is implemented to not only return the instances and variations of the text string but will also return content that includes the search string relevant dates e.g. a modification date or a last access date the search term modifications and any other associated and or corresponding results.

In embodiments the search module can receive a search input such as via the APIs described above to further filter the search result set for a subset of the search result items . For example a contacts application e.g. one of the device applications may return a long list of contacts as the search result set . A user may want to filter down the returned search result items not as a query but rather as a filtered search. As the user types in an area code as a search term for example the search module can query the items returned for a property that correlates to the area code of the filtered search to identify the relevant search result items. The search module can determine the filtered search result items responsive to the search input and then return the subset of the search result items along with the properties that correlate to each of the search result items in the subset.

In embodiments the search module can initiate a property query of a search result item to determine the one or more properties that are correlated with the search result item and the search module receives back the properties that are correlated with the search result item responsive to the property query. The search result item self expresses why the search result item was returned as part of the search result set based on the properties of the search result item.

The search folder can also be implemented to maintain the query as originally initiated which can then be referenced to correlate with the search result items . The original query data to include the applied search terms of the query as well as equivalence alterations of the search terms is accessible by the search module to determine why a property of a search result item is part of a query result. The search module can also receive back the query as originally initiated responsive to the property query and associate search terms of the query with the properties of a search result item to indicate a correspondence of the search terms with the properties of the search result item.

The search module can also receive back a presentation template for a property that is correlated with a search result item responsive to the property query . As noted above the presentation template indicates how the search result item can be displayed in a search result user interface based on the property that is correlated with the search result item. All of available information can then be aggregated and passed to the query consumer e.g. a client application search indexer or other type of query consumer . The search result items can then express to the query consumer the available information that is passed to the query consumer along with the search result items.

Example methods and are described with reference to respective in accordance with one or more embodiments of identifying search matches and altered search results. Generally any of the services components modules methods and operations described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or any combination thereof The example methods may be described in the general context of executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media that is local and or remote to a computer processing system and implementations can include software applications programs functions and the like.

At a query is received from a device application. For example the search module at the computing device receives a query from a device application and the query specifies search terms . The device application is a query consumer and may be an email client application that communicates a user data search to locate past emails or a music application that searches to locate particular music files. Alternatively the device application may be the search indexer for the computing device that indexes and searches the device data and content on the computing device as well as network based stored data shown as the cloud storage .

At a data search is initiated based on the search terms of the query. For example the search module initiates the data search of the device data and content and or initiates the data search of the cloud storage based on the search terms of the query . The data search may include searching the device data and content which can include any type of files documents and content. The data search may also include searching the cloud storage e.g. networked data such as a Web based email service that stores email messages and user contacts data or a music service that the computing device accesses music for playback on the device.

At a search result set of search result items is received responsive to the query. For example the search module receives the search result set of search result items in response to the query . The search result set of the search result items are maintained in the search folder on the computing device . The search folder can also be utilized to maintain the query as originally initiated which can then be referenced to correlate with the search result items .

At properties of a search result item are correlated with the search result item. For example the search module correlates one or more properties of the search result item with the search result item and the properties indicate why the search result item was returned as part of the search result set . The search result item is an example of any of the search result items of the search result set . With the attached properties the search result item can self express why the search result item was returned as part of the search result set.

At search terms of the query are associated with respective properties of the search result item. For example the search module associates one or more of the search terms of the query with the respective properties of the search result item to indicate a correspondence of a search term with a property of the search result item.

At a presentation template for the search result item is selected based on the properties of the search result item. For example the search module selects a presentation template for the search result item based on the properties of the search result item. A search result item can include the one or more presentation templates that indicate how the search result item can be displayed in a search result user interface.

At the search result set of the search result items is returned to the device application along with the properties of each search result item and the associated search terms of the query. For example the search module returns the search result set of the search result items to the device application along with the one or more properties of each search result item and the associated search terms of the query .

At a property query of a search result item is initiated. For example the search module at the computing device initiates a property query of the search result item to determine the one or more properties that are correlated with the search result item. At the properties that are correlated with the search result item are received responsive to the property query. For example the search module receives the one or more properties that are correlated with the search result item responsive to the property query .

At the query as originally initiated is received back responsive to the property query. For example the search module also receives back the original query e.g. the query as originally initiated and the search module associates the search terms of the query with the respective one or more properties of the search result item .

At a presentation template for a property that is correlated with the search result item is received responsive to the property query. For example the search module receives a presentation template for a property that is correlated with the search result item responsive to the property query . The presentation template indicates how the search result item can be displayed in a search result user interface based on the property that is correlated with the search result item.

At a search input is received to further filter the search result set for a subset of the search result items and at filtered search result items are determined responsive to the search input. For example the search module at the computing device receives the search input from a device application when the search input is initiated to further filter the search result set for a subset of the search result items . The search module determines the subset of filtered search result items responsive to the search input .

At the subset of the search result items is returned along with the properties that correlate to each of the search result items in the subset. For example the search module returns the subset of the search result items to the device application e.g. a query consumer along with the one or more properties that correlate to each of the search result items in the subset.

The device includes communication devices that enable wired and or wireless communication of device data such as email messages that are received routed stored and or delivered as the outgoing emails. Additionally the device data can include any type of audio video and or image data. The communication devices can also include transceivers for cellular phone communication and for network data communication.

The device also includes input output I O interfaces such as data network interfaces that provide connection and or communication links between the device data networks and other devices. The I O interfaces can be used to couple the device to any type of components peripherals and or accessory devices. The I O interfaces also include data input ports via which any type of data media content and or inputs can be received such as user inputs to the device as well as any type of audio video and or image data received from any content and or data source.

The device includes a processing system that may be implemented at least partially in hardware such as with any type of microprocessors controllers and the like that process executable instructions. The processing system can include components of an integrated circuit programmable logic device a logic device formed using one or more semiconductors and other implementations in silicon and or hardware such as a processor and memory system implemented as a system on chip SoC . Alternatively or in addition the device can be implemented with any one or combination of software hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that may be implemented with processing and control circuits. The device may further include any type of a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components within the device. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures and architectures as well as control and data lines.

The device also includes computer readable storage media such as data storage devices that can be accessed by a computing device and that provide persistent storage of data and executable instructions e.g. software applications programs functions and the like . Examples of computer readable storage media include volatile memory and non volatile memory fixed and removable media devices and any suitable memory device or electronic data storage that maintains data for computing device access. The computer readable storage media can include various implementations of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and other types of storage media in various memory device configurations.

The computer readable storage media provides storage of the device data and various device applications such as an operating system that is maintained as a software application with the computer readable storage media and executed by the processing system . For example the device applications may include the client application and or the search indexer as described with reference to . In this example the device applications also include a search module that implements embodiments of identifying search matches and altered search results such as when the example device is implemented as the computing device shown in . An example of the search module is the search module of the computing device as described with reference to .

The device also includes an audio and or video system that generates audio data for an audio device and or generates display data for a display device . The audio device and or the display device include any devices that process display and or otherwise render audio video display and or image data. In implementations the audio device and or the display device are integrated components of the example device . Alternatively the audio device and or the display device are external peripheral components to the example device.

In embodiments at least part of the techniques described for identifying search matches and altered search results may be implemented in a distributed system such as over a cloud in a platform . The cloud includes and or is representative of the platform for services and or resources . For example the services and or the resources may include the search module described with reference to as well as searchable data and content.

The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware such as server devices e.g. included in the services and or software resources e.g. included as the resources and connects the example device with other devices servers etc. The resources may also include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the example device . Additionally the services and or the resources may facilitate subscriber network services such as over the Internet a cellular network or Wi Fi network. The platform may also serve to abstract and scale resources to service a demand for the resources that are implemented via the platform such as in an interconnected device embodiment with functionality distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part at the example device as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

Although embodiments of identifying search matches and altered search results have been described in language specific to features and or methods the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as example implementations of identifying search matches and altered search results.

