---

title: Latency reduction in streamed content consumption
abstract: Described herein are systems and methods for determining and distributing pre-fetch data associated with streaming of content to a media device. Transport control data associated with user navigation within the content during consumption of the content is acquired. The transport control data is processed to determine one or more points of interest in the content. Pre-fetch content associated with these one or more points of interest may be delivered to the media device. Presentation is expedited with low or no latency during navigation to one of the points of interest having the pre-fetched content, which may be presented while the content is being made available.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473548&OS=09473548&RS=09473548
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09473548
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130312
---
A wide variety of content is available for streaming delivery to media devices for presentation. The content may include audio video or both. The media devices may include televisions tablet computers personal computers gaming consoles in vehicle entertainment systems portable media players and so forth. The media devices may be configured to provide user interfaces allowing a user to navigate through the content.

Traditionally navigation to another point in time in the streamed content may result in the user experiencing delays in subsequent presentation while the content for that point in time is received. These delays may result in an undesirable user experience.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Media devices present content to one or more users. The content may include audio video or both. For example the content may include television shows movies audio books and so forth.

The content may be streamed from one or more content servers to the media device. The media device may then present the content to the one or more users. Streaming comprises an incremental ongoing transmission of portions of the content. That is the content is delivered in portions such as blocks or chunks of data which are transmitted over time. As the portions are received presentation may take place. Streaming allows for presentation to begin before the entire file has been downloaded. Streaming offers several advantages compared to local storage of the entire file of the content. Local storage requirements of the media device are reduced lowering cost of the device. Content publishers or owners may be better able to determine content consumption statistics such as how many times a movie has been watched. Digital rights management may also be more easily applied and updated helping to maintain intellectual property rights in the content.

Streaming utilizes a connection to the one or more content servers to receive portions of the content for presentation. To reduce adverse user experiences associated with changes in network conditions a portion of the content may be received and buffered prior to presentation. Buffering or other operations such as establishment of digital rights management permissions may introduce a delay which is perceptible to the user while the buffer fills.

During straight through play from a beginning time to an ending time in the content the user may experience a delay once such as after initiation of the presentation. During presentation of the content the user may activate one or more transport controls to navigate within the content. These transport controls may include fast forward rewind seek and so forth. Activation of the transport controls changes the point in time in the content at which presentation occurs. For example the user may activate the transport control to fast forward to a point in the content 23 seconds from a current position in the content.

Due to the ongoing delivery aspect of streaming the user may navigate to a point in time in the content beyond which portions of the content have been received or which have already been discarded from storage. This may result in a delay while content associated with that point in time is retrieved from the one or more servers. Other factors may also introduce delays such as Digital Rights Management DRM checks and so forth.

Described in this disclosure are systems and techniques for reducing or eliminating the latency in presentation associated with navigation to different points in time in the content. Transport control data from a plurality of users interacting with the same or a similar piece of content is acquired and analyzed to develop pre fetch data. This pre fetch data may include a pre fetch timeline and pre fetch content. The pre fetch timeline comprises points of interest in the content and pre fetch content may include clips associated with those points of interest. The pre fetch data may vary between users. Profiles may be used to develop pre fetch data tailored to a particular user or group of users.

During presentation of the content for which pre fetch data is available the user may activate a transport control to navigate within the content. Navigation may be provided to one of the points of interest in the pre fetch timeline. When selected for presentation the pre fetch content associated with the point of interest is presented while the content associated with that point of interest is streamed and prepared for presentation. Using this technique the user may navigate within the content and quickly see content for those pre fetched points of interest with little or no latency in the presentation.

The media device may include televisions tablet computers personal computers gaming consoles in vehicle entertainment systems portable media players and so forth. The media devices depicted include displays and are presenting video content.

The media device comprises a communication module configured to establish and support communications between the media device and other devices. For example the communication module may execute instructions which support transmission of data across a data network using the transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP .

A user interface module of the media device is configured to provide a user interface to the user and accept inputs responsive to the user interface. The user interface may include one or more visual audible or haptic elements. For example the user interface may be configured to provide a graphical user interface using the display which includes a control to navigate within the content. The user interface is described in more detail below with regard to .

The presentation module is configured to present content on or in conjunction with the media device . The presentation module may be configured to receive streamed content from an external source device such as a server or may access content which has been previously stored on the media device . The presentation module may support digital rights management presentation of encrypted content and so forth. The presentation module may be configured to work in conjunction with the user interface module to allow the user to select a point within the content for presentation.

The presentation module is configured to support one or more transport controls . The transport controls are configured such that when activated presentation of the content may be shifted to a different point in time in the content . In the example illustrated here the transport controls include a fast forward control a rewind control and a seek control . In other implementations other transport controls may be provided such as scrubbing jumping and so forth. These controls may be implemented as physical buttons such as on a remote control device in communication with the media device virtual or soft buttons or features presented in the user interface such as provided by the user interface module verbal commands recognized by a machine such as using speech recognition gestures received by a camera and so forth.

A data acquisition module on the media device is configured to acquire transport control data . The transport control data may be associated with a single user or a plurality of the users and may be based on user input to the plurality of the media devices . The data acquisition module may work in conjunction with other modules such as the communication module the user interface module and the presentation module .

The transport control data may include one or more data elements such as a content identifier a location identifier a control used and so forth. The content identifier includes information which identifies or designates the particular content which is being presented. For example the content identifier may be a string such as a product identification number indicating a particular movie as stored by a content provider. In some implementations the content identifier information may be inferred or determined based on other connection data. For example a single stream of content may be delivered to the media device during a period of time. The transport control data also gathered during that period of time may be associated with the particular piece of content . The location identifier provides information as to a point in time or otherwise within the content the user has navigated to. The location identifier may be expressed as a time byte count frame count and so forth. The location identifier may be measured from the start of the content or until the end of the content . For example the location identifier may indicate the location as 00 26 minutes seconds or as frame . The control used indicates which of the transport controls were activated during the navigation. For example the control used may have been a button on a remote control selection from a timeline presented in the user interface and so forth. In some implementations different weights may be assigned to different controls used. For example user input from a button on a remote control may be deemed more accurate and of higher importance than a spoken command.

The data acquisition module may be configured to process the input received. The processing may include filtering or removing transport control data . The filtered or removed data may be transport control data which occurs within a particular period of time or window while retaining a first or last piece of transport control data . For example the user may use the fast forward transport control to move through the content stopping briefly eight times in a twenty second span of time while trying to find a particular point in the content . The data acquisition module may be configured to disregard or remove the seven brief stops and provide transport control data for the final point in the content associated with the last stop.

The media device may also store at least a portion of pre fetch data . The pre fetch data may include a pre fetch timeline pre fetch content or both. The pre fetch timeline indicates one or more points of interest within the content which have been determined based at least in part on the transport control data as described below. In some implementations the pre fetch timeline may have the points of interest arranged sequentially by time or may have data which designates a sequence of time. The pre fetch content comprises data such as clips associated with the one or more points of interest which are indicated within the pre fetch timeline . The pre fetch content may be presented by the media device while presentation of the content is prepared after navigation to a different point in the content . The pre fetch data is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The media device may be coupled to a remote control using a communication link. The remote control may serve as an input device or input output device for the media device . For example the remote control may include one or more of a touch sensor button accelerometer gyroscope camera microphone speaker haptic output device and so forth. The communication link may be optical radio frequency acoustic and so forth. In one implementation the communication link may use a personal area network interface such as one compliant with the Bluetooth specification. In some implementations the remote control may comprise another device such as a smartphone tablet computer and so forth which is communicatively coupled to the media device .

The media device may couple to one or more networks which are configured to transfer data between devices. The networks may include one or more public networks such as the Internet private networks or a combination of both. The network in turn couples to a plurality of content servers . . . S .

While single servers are depicted in some implementations the servers or the functions attributed to the servers may be provided by a plurality of devices. For example the server may exist as a virtualized server executing across a plurality of physical servers.

The content server may provide functions such as streaming content to the media device for presentation generating and providing pre fetch data acquiring authenticating user accounts providing content lists and so forth. The content server may store or have access to one or more pieces of content . The content may include audio video and so forth. The content may be provided using the network to the media device . The presentation module of the media device may receive the content and present it to the user .

The content server may include a communication module configured to establish and support communications with the media device or other devices. A content delivery module is configured to stream the content to one or more of the media devices . The streaming of the content may be initiated by a request from the media device or by the content server or another device.

A transport control data analysis module is configured to acquire the transport control data from a plurality of media devices . The content server may directly acquire this information such as receiving it from the plurality of the media devices or may receive the data from another device such as an aggregation server. In some implementations the transport control data analysis module may acquire the transport control data from interactions between the media device and the content server . For example the content server may log data indicating when the stream of the content deviates from linear playback and is resumed at a different point in the content . This log data may then be used to generate the transport control data such as the content identifier and the location identifier data.

The transport control data analysis module may be configured to generate the pre fetch data based at least in part on the transport control data . The transport control data is processed to determine one or more points of interest. The points of interest comprise locations within the content which the user is likely to navigate to. The points of interest may be determined by evaluating the transport control data with one or more of probability distributions heuristics machine learning techniques and so forth. These points of interest may then be used to generate the pre fetch timeline .

The transport control data analysis module may be configured to select particularly relevant pieces of transport control data for analysis. For example filters may be applied which disregard transport control data which is repetitive duplicative part of a repeated series of inputs and so forth. For example the user may use the rewind transport control to step back through the content stopping occasionally to determine if a particular point of interest has been found. The transport control data associated with the time in the content at which the user resumes normal presentation may be used for analysis while the earlier stops along the way may be disregarded.

One or more profiles may be used in the generation of the pre fetch data . The profiles may be used to customize or tailor the pre fetch data to particular users or groups of users. This customization may include filtering data to users with the same or similar demographics adjusting the probability distribution and so forth. The profiles are discussed in more detail below with regard to .

During operation the media device receives the content stream and at least a portion of the pre fetch data . The delivery of the pre fetch data and portions thereof may be coordinated with a current presentation position in the content . For example a portion of the pre fetch data associated with 5 minutes before and after the current presentation point may be sent to the media device . As the content continues to be streamed and presented additional portions of the pre fetch data may be delivered to maintain availability of the pre fetch content for 5 minutes before and after the current presentation point. Should the user not use the transport controls the content would continue to play as usual. Upon accessing the transport controls the user may select a point of interest in the pre fetch timeline which has associated pre fetch content . Once selected presentation may begin promptly using the pre fetched content while the stream of the content from the content server is updated to reflect the new location in time in the content .

The content servers may also store content metadata . The content metadata comprises information about the content . This may include cast crew performers listing of songs scene listing indexing data closed captioning and so forth. The content metadata may be provided along with the content to the content server or may be generated at least in part by the content server . For example during intake of the content data in the closed captioning may be analyzed to determine portions of the content which may designated as points of interest. In another example during production of the content content metadata may be generated which includes maturity ratings for particular scenes.

In this illustration a content pane is depicted within which at least a portion of the content which has a visual component may be shown. For example as shown here a portion of the movie Burnt Sage is depicted in the content pane . A timeline is depicted which is based at least in part on the pre fetch timeline . A current position in the content is depicted as a black rectangle icon on the timeline . This is the current position within the content and corresponds to the information currently being presented by the media device such as the image in the content pane . As presentation continues the current position in the content indicator will progress such as from left to right in this illustration.

This timeline includes a plurality of points of interest indicated here with black diamond icons. The points of interest comprise locations within the content which the user is likely to navigate to based at least in part on the previous behavior of the user or other users . As described above the points of interest may be determined by evaluating the transport control data with one or more of probability distributions heuristics machine learning techniques and so forth. In one implementation the heuristics may involve analyzing time between subsequent navigation inputs. For example a first point which the user navigates to and then within a pre determined time threshold such as five seconds navigates to another point may be given a lower rank or weight than a second point which the user navigates to and then provides no further navigation input until more than five seconds later.

In some implementations the user interface may provide previews such as thumbnail images or audio snippets for the points of interest . These previews may provide the user with an indication as to what is in the content at those various times.

As described above the pre fetch data may include a pre fetch timeline . In some implementations the pre fetch timeline may be delivered from the content server to the media device . The pre fetch timeline may then be used to populate the timeline presented in the user interface . The pre fetch timeline is discussed in more detail below with regard to .

The pre fetch content may comprise of clips or segments which are associated with the content . The pre fetch content may be delivered incrementally. For example a first portion of the pre fetch content may be delivered while the current position in the content is at a first time. A second portion of the pre fetch content may be delivered when the current position in the content is at a second time different from the first such as two minutes later. For example as illustrated here the pre fetch content for a first portion associated with the first two points of interest includes the clips for that portion.

The pre fetch content may be based in part on the content or may be otherwise associated with the content . In one implementation the pre fetch content may be a copy of the corresponding portion of the content . In another implementation the pre fetch content may be a lower resolution rendition of the content such as a transcoded standard definition version derived from the high definition content .

The duration of the clips may be fixed such as two seconds for all clips or may be variable. In some implementations the variability of the duration of the clips may be associated with or based at least in part on network conditions or other factors. For example during a period of peak network usage when network throughput may be decreased the duration of the clip may be extended to four seconds allowing additional time for the content to be streamed. Likewise during a period of low network usage when network throughput is increased the duration of the clip may be reduced to 1 second.

A first pre fetch timeline is indicated when transport control data is unavailable . For example upon the first presentation of the content . The current position in the content is indicated as described above. Without the pre fetch timeline no points of interest are available. A pre fetch window is depicted which tracks with the current position in the content . The points of interest which are within the pre fetch window may be retrieved from the content server . The pre fetch window may be arranged symmetrically relative to the current position in the content or may be asymmetrical. For example an asymmetrical pre fetch window may be configured to extend from 2 minutes before the current position in the content to 6 minutes after.

In comparison when transport control data is available the pre fetch timeline now includes several points of interest . The points of interest may be based at least in part on the user input resulting in the transport control data . As illustrated here the current position in the content has progressed along the timeline and the pre fetch window has tracked along with this progression. In addition to the pre fetch timeline the pre fetch content may also be updated based at least in part on a current position in the stream of the content .

In this illustration fetched content is indicated with a white diamond. The fetched content comprises the pre fetch content which has been transferred to the media device and is ready for presentation. As indicated here the pre fetch content associated with two points of interest have been fetched and are available. Here those points of interest which are earlier in time and have been previously fetched are also available.

Non fetched points of interest which are outside the pre fetch window and have not yet been stored on the media device are indicated with solid black diamonds. Also depicted are distant fetch points of interest indicated with a crosshatch pattern. In some implementations the pre fetch content associated with points of interest outside the current pre fetch window may be retrieved as the distant fetch . The distant fetch points of interest may be those points which are of such high probability of being accessed that they are provided to the media device . For example the distant fetch point of interest may be a particularly exciting play in a sporting event or a commonly referred to scene in a movie. The distant fetches may thus improve responsiveness to the user when navigating outside the pre fetch window .

The pre fetch timelines may dynamically change with time. Over time how users interact with the content may vary. For example as times and personal tastes change users may become more interested in different portions of the content . These changes may be over short time intervals such as seconds or longer periods such as years. Transport control data available later in time is depicted in this illustration. For example several years later the number and distribution of the points of interest have shifted. Some points of interest have been added while others have been removed. In another example the number and distribution of the points of interest may change as the user looks at the timeline in the user interface . The pre fetch timelines may also vary based on the profiles which are discussed next with regard to .

The transport control data analysis module may be configured to compare users with the same or similar demographics usage patterns preferences and so forth to generate particular profiles. In the illustration shown here profiles are available for a single male concise user replay viewer movie aficionado single female and others in your region . The points of interest in each of these profiles differ from one another. For example the concise user profile may be a person who tends to fast forward through content looking for interesting portions in effect skimming the content . As illustrated here the pre fetch timeline associated with this profile contains several points of interest which are distributed throughout the content . In comparison the movie aficionado profile has fewer points of interest because the transport control data for the users associated with this profile tend to watch the content linearly and continuously.

The profiles associated with a particular user may be manually or automatically selected. For example the user interface module of the media device may be configured to present a series of questions to the user . Inputs to these questions may then be used to select the profile . In another implementation the profile selection may occur automatically.

The media device may include one or more processors configured to execute one or more stored instructions. The processors may comprise one or more cores. The media device may include one or more input output I O interface s to allow the processor or other portions of the media device to communicate with other devices. The I O interfaces may comprise inter integrated circuit I2C serial peripheral interface bus SPI USB RS 232 a media device interface such as HDMI and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include input devices such as one or more of a camera a microphone a touch sensor a button and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output device and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the media device or may be externally placed.

The I O interfaces may include one or more media device interfaces. The media device interfaces allow for the exchange of information between the media device and other media devices . The media device interface may include one or more of a HDMI TOSLINK Ethernet analog video analog audio IEEE 1394 USB Bluetooth ZigBee and so forth. The device interfaces may allow for wired or wireless communication between the media device and the other media devices .

The media device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the media device and other devices. The communication interfaces may include personal area networks wireless local area networks wireless wide area networks and so forth. The media device may communicate with the remote control using one or more of the communication interfaces. For example the media device may communicate with the remote control using a Bluetooth personal area network.

The media device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the media device .

As shown in the media device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The CRSM may be any one or more of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium a mechanical computer storage medium and so forth. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the media device .

The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . The OS module is configured to manage hardware resource devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces the device interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors . Also stored in the memory may be the communication module the user interface module the presentation module and the data acquisition module .

As described above the communication module is configured to establish and support communications between the media device other devices. The communication module may access the communication interfaces to exchange information. For example the communication module may be configured to request content from the content server using the network .

As described above the user interface module is configured to provide the user interface to the user using the I O devices and accept inputs received from the user input I O devices . The user interface may include one or more visual audible or haptic elements. For example the user interface may be configured to provide a visual user interface as described above allowing navigation within the content .

The presentation module is configured to present content on the media device or another device such as a television connection using HDMI . The presentation module is configured to receive content streamed from an external source device such as the content server or may access content which has been previously stored on the media device in the memory such as the pre fetch content . The presentation module may support digital rights management presentation of encrypted content and so forth.

The presentation module is configured to be responsive to the one or more transport controls . As described above the transport controls are configured such that when activated presentation of the content may be shifted to a different point in time in the content . In the example illustrated here the transport controls include a fast forward control a rewind control and a seek control . In other implementations other transport controls may be provided such as scrubbing jumping and so forth. These controls may be implemented as physical buttons such as on the remote control device virtual or soft buttons or features presented in the user interface such as provided by the user interface module verbal commands recognized by a machine such as using speech recognition gestures received by a camera and so forth.

The data acquisition module on the media device is configured to acquire at least a portion of the transport control data used by the transport control data analysis module of the content server . The data acquisition module may work in conjunction with other modules such as the communication module the user interface module and the presentation module . In some implementations the data acquisition module may access system or user logs and use the information therein to generate at least a portion of the transport control data .

The data acquisition module may be configured to use the user interface module to provide a user interface to the user which allows for the specification of preferences indication of whether to allow or disallow collection of the transport control data and so forth. For example the user may choose to opt in to collection and sharing of the transmission control data with the content server .

Other modules may be stored in the memory . For example a digital rights management module may work in conjunction with the presentation module to facilitate access to content.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

The datastore may store a portion of the content such that that which is being buffered. The datastore may also store the transport control data prior to transmission to the content server or another device such as a data aggregation server. The pre fetch data may also be stored in the datastore . Other data may also be stored such as user preferences account login information and so forth.

The content server may include one or more processors configured to execute one or more stored instructions. The processors may comprise one or more cores. The content server may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor or other portions of the content server to communicate with other devices. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include input devices such as one or more of a keyboard a touch sensor and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display printer and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the content server or may be externally placed.

The content server may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the content server and other devices such as the media device . The communication interfaces may include wireless local area networks wireless wide area networks and so forth. For example the communication interfaces may include an Ethernet interface which connects to the network .

The content server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the content server .

As shown in the content server includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more CRSM. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the content server .

The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . The OS module is configured to manage hardware resource devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces the device interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors . Also stored in the memory may be a user interface module the content delivery module and the transport control data analysis module .

The user interface module is configured to provide a user interface to the user or to the media device . In one implementation the user interface may be a web interface presented via the network and accessible to the users . In another implementation the user interface may comprise an application programming interface API which enables communication such as sending requests for pre fetch data from the media device to the content server .

The user interface module may also be configured to accept data from the users or the media devices including but not limited to the transport control data . In one implementation the user interface module may be configured to provide an interface to the media device to allow for the exchange of the transport control data .

As described above the content delivery module is configured to stream the content to one or more of the media devices . The streaming of the content may be initiated by a request from the media device or by the content server or another device. For example in some implementations the user may use a third device to initiate streaming from the content server and presentation on the media device .

The transport control data analysis module is configured to access the transport control data provided from a plurality of media devices . The content server may directly acquire this information such as receiving it from the plurality of the media devices or may receive the data from another device such as an aggregation server.

In some implementations the transport control data analysis module may acquire the transport control data at least in part from interactions between the media device and the content server . In these implementations transport control data may be acquired without interaction with the data acquisition module . For example the content server may log data indicating when the stream of the content deviates from linear playback and is resumed at a different point in the content . This log data may then be used to generate the transport control data such as the content identifier and the location identifier data.

The transport control data analysis module may be configured to generate the pre fetch data based at least in part on the transport control data content metadata or other information. The transport control data content metadata or other information may be processed to determine one or more points of interest . For example content which has been newly added and for which no transport control data has been acquired may have points of interest and the pre fetch timeline determined based on the content metadata .

The transport control data analysis module may evaluate the transport control data using one or more of probability distributions heuristics machine learning techniques and so forth. For example the data from thousands of users may be analyzed to determine a top 20 of the most popular points of interest in the content . These points of interest may then be used to generate the pre fetch timeline .

Other modules may be stored in the memory . For example a content metadata generation module may be configured to generate the content metadata as described above.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

The datastore may store the content for distribution the transport control data the pre fetch data the profiles the content metadata or other data . For example the other data may include administrator preferences account information associated with the user and so forth.

Block receives a plurality of requests to deliver streams of content to a plurality of media devices . For example the content server may receive requests to send the content to the media devices . These requests may be associated with a single user or with a plurality of the users .

Block provides the streams of content to the requesting media devices . Continuing the example the stream of the content may be sent to the media devices using the network .

Block accesses transport control data associated with presentation of the content delivered from one or more content servers by streaming to a plurality of media devices . As described above the transport control data may be information indicative of navigation to one or more points in time between a beginning time and an ending time of the content . For example the transport control data may include the location identifier data indicating the user has navigated to time 17 27 in the content . The transport control data may include one or more of the content identifier data which is indicative of the particular piece of content being streamed the location identifier data indicating a particular point within the content or the user input control used to accept the navigation input such as whether the user pressed the remote control or used a spoken command.

The navigation to the one or more points comprises user input configured to rewind presentation of the content fast forward presentation of the content or seek a particular point in presentation of the content . For example the user may activate the seek transport control to go to a particular point in time in the content . The transport control data may be associated with a single user or with a plurality of the users .

Pre fetch data associated with the content may be determined based at least in part on the transport control data . Based at least in part on the transport control data block generates a pre fetch timeline comprising one or more points of interest associated with the content . As described above the one or more points of interest may comprise information indicative of the navigation to the one or more points in time between the beginning time and the ending time of the content . For example the pre fetch timeline may include several points such as described above with regard to .

In some implementations the determination of the pre fetch data may use one or more different techniques. One technique involves a block not pictured which applies a probability distribution to a portion of the plurality of points in the transport control data . For example a Gaussian distribution may be applied to the points in particular portion or time slices. For example portions may be designated at every 5 seconds in the content . Probability distributions may then be generated for each of these portions. Another block designates as a point of interest the point of the portion having the greatest probability. The pre fetch data may then include the pre fetch timeline based on the designated points of interest for different portions of the content .

In another implementation either alone or in conjunction with the probability distribution one technique for the determination of the pre fetch data may include evaluating the plurality of points in the transport control data with one or more heuristics to designate the points of interest within the portion of the content .

As described above with regard to profiles may be used to determine the pre fetch data . In one implementation one or more profiles associated with a user may be determined. The selection of the probability distribution or heuristics may then be based at least in part on the one or more profiles .

Based at least in part on the pre fetch timeline block determines pre fetch content associated with the one or more points of interest . As described above with respect to the pre fetch content may comprise one or more clips of the content associated with the one or more points of interest . The clips may comprise audio video or both.

In some implementations the content as streamed comprises a first resolution and the clips comprise a second resolution lower than the first resolution. For example the content may be streamed at 1080p resolution while the clips are provided at 480p resolution.

Block provides the pre fetch data to the one or more of the plurality of media devices . This may include sending the pre fetch timeline the pre fetch content or both using the network . In one implementation the pre fetched content may be sent and the presentation module of the media device may be configured to use this information when the user activates one or more of the transport controls . In another implementation the pre fetch timeline may be sent to the media devices which may then use the information in the pre fetch timelines to request particular portions of the pre fetch content .

Block receives from the server a stream of content starting at a first point in time in the content . As described above the stream comprises an incremental ongoing transmission of portions of the content over the network . The first point in time in the content may be at a beginning of the content or at another point within the content .

Block presents the portion of the stream of the content as received beginning at the first point in time. For example once DRM setup and buffering has completed the media device may begin to present the audio and video of the content .

Block receives pre fetch data associated with the content . As described above in one implementation the pre fetch data may be based at least in part on transport control data which is descriptive of a plurality of transport control inputs received from a plurality of users accessing the content . As described above the transport control data comprises user activation of one or more transport controls configured to fast forward presentation of the content rewind presentation of the content or seek a particular point in presentation of the content .

In one implementation the pre fetch data may comprise a pre fetch timeline of a plurality of points of interest . The pre fetch timeline configured for presentation by the user interface module to the user . The transport control data may comprise user input to select one of the points of interest of the pre fetch timeline .

The pre fetch data as described above comprises a plurality of points of interest within the content . These points of interest are determined based at least in part on input from a plurality of users . The pre fetch data may also include pre fetch content comprising a plurality of clips associated with at least a portion of the plurality of points of interest .

In another implementation the pre fetch data may be based at least in part on one or more pieces of content metadata associated with the content . As described above the content metadata is indicative of one or more events at particular points in the content . The one or more events may include spoken words stored in the content printed words displayed in the content faces appearing in the content objects appearing in the content objects heard in the content and so forth. For example the content metadata may include information about what times in the content a particular character appears. The pre fetch content may be provided which comprises one or more particular events in the content . For example the pre fetch content may include clips associated with a particular actor.

The pre fetch data as received may be associated with a presentation point in the presentation of a portion of the stream of the content such that as the presentation point changes the pre fetch data received changes. For example as described above with regard to the pre fetch window may move along with the current position in the content .

Block receives transport control data associated with one or more transport control inputs from a user input device such as one of the I O devices described above. These transport control inputs are associated with a transition of presentation of the content from the first point in time to a second point in time in the content . For example the user may press the fast forward transport control to move presentation forward in the content from the current position of 13 17 to 14 21.

Based at least in part on the transport control data block presents at least a portion of the pre fetch data associated with the second point in time. Presentation of the at least a portion of the pre fetch data may comprise presenting one of the plurality of clips . For example the pre fetch content associated with 14 21 or which leads up to 14 21 may be played. The portion of the pre fetch data associated with the second point in time may comprise a clip configured to conclude presentation at the second point in time. For example the pre fetch data may lead up to the point of interest .

Block sends the server an indication of the transition of presentation to the second point in time. For example the media device may use the network to send information describing the transition of presentation to point in the content to the content server .

Block receives from the server the stream of content starting at the second point in time in the content . Continuing the example the server responsive to the request begins sending the content stream associated with the point .

Block presents the portion of the stream of the content as received beginning at the second point in time. This presentation continues until the end of the content is reached the user activates one of the transport controls and so forth. The presentation to the user may be configured to transition from the pre fetch content to the portion of the stream of the content such that presentation is seamless.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations.

Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

