---

title: Alerting users to items of current interest
abstract: Disseminating to a participant an indication that an item accessible by the participant via a network is of current interest is disclosed. An indication that the item is of current interest is received in real time. The indication is processed. The participant is informed that the item is of current interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09317560&OS=09317560&RS=09317560
owner: Interval Licensing LLC
number: 09317560
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130422
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 411 500 filed Mar. 26 2009 entitled Alerting Users to Items of Current Interest which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 800 393 filed Mar. 12 2004 entitled Alerting Users to Items of Current Interest which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 656 638 filed Sep. 7 2000 entitled Alerting Users to Items of Current Interest now U.S. Pat. No. 6 757 682 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 178 627 filed Jan. 28 2000 entitled Alerting Users to Web Sites of Current Interest and Handling Large Increases in User Traffic all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 656 518 filed Sep. 7 2000 entitled Quantifying the Level of Interest of an Item of Current Interest now U.S. Pat. No. 6 556 989 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 658 346 filed Sep. 7 2000 entitled Normalizing a Measure of the Level of Current Interest of an Item Accessible Via a Network now U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 744 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to communications and computer networks. More specifically alerting users to dynamic content accessible via a communications or computer network that is of interest at the time of the alert is disclosed.

The use of the Internet and in particular the World Wide Web and other communication and computer networks has grown dramatically in recent years. The emergence of technologies for broader bandwidth communications better compression technology and new and less expensive digital recording and imaging technology have all contributed to explosive growth in the volume and diversity of content available via communication and or computer networks such as the World Wide Web.

However this proliferation of content such as audio image and video content presents certain challenges from the perspective of users seeking content of current interest. First the shear volume of content available makes it difficult for users to find the content in which they are most interested in accessing at any given time. Apart from having to sort through the enormous volume of content available much of the content of potentially greatest interest at least to many users is dynamic. At certain times a file or other electronic resource may be of great interest while at other times or perhaps even most of the time it is not of great interest or not interesting at all.

For example thousands of and perhaps in excess of a hundred thousand web cameras or webcams are in use. Webcams are cameras used to provide images of a target of interest via a site on the World Wide Web. Images are updated in varying manners and at varying intervals depending on the site. A webcam might be used for example to provide images of a watering hole in Africa. Typically users would access a website associated with the webcam to view activity at the watering hole. However there would be many periods during which nothing of particular interest e.g. no animals etc. would be happening at the watering hole. Conversely there would be occasional periods when activity of great interest would be occurring such as the presence of a rare or endangered animal at the watering hole. Users would have no way of knowing when such activity would be occurring and might miss the most interesting images if they did not happen to check the website at the right time. The same problems arise with respect to files or other electronic resources other than webcam content provided via the World Wide Web including other media such as audio.

As a result there is a need for a way to alert users to web content or other electronic resources available via a communications or computer network that are of interest at a particular time. To meet this latter need there is a need to provide a way to become aware that dynamic web content or an electronic resource other than web content is of interest at a given time and to quantify the degree or level of current interest. In addition there is a need to consider the interests of a user when determining which web content or other electronic resources likely will be of the greatest interest to the user.

There is also a need to ensure that interested users receive alerts with respect to web content or other electronic resources that are of interest only to a relatively small community of users or that are of interest on only relatively rare or infrequent occasions. There is a risk otherwise that indications of current interest regarding such files and other electronic resources would be masked by more voluminous or frequent activity with respect to more widely popular or pervasive resources or types of resources such as pornography sites on the World Wide Web .

Accordingly alerting users of items of current interest is disclosed. The level of current interest of a particular file or other electronic resource is determined based on indications received from alerting users. One or more users receive an alert that the item is of current interest. Normalization of the level of current interest of a file or other resource such as to adjust for items of current interest to a small community or for items of current interest only infrequently also is described.

It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a device a method or a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network wherein program instructions are sent over optical or electronic communication links. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below.

Disseminating to a participant an indication that an item accessible by the participant via a network is of current interest is disclosed. In one embodiment an indication that the item is of current interest is received in real time. The indication is processed. The participant is informed that the item is of current interest.

In one embodiment a computer is configured to receive in real time an indication that an item is of current interest process the indication and inform a participant that the item is of current interest. A database associated with the computer is configured to store data relating to the item.

In one embodiment a computer program product for disseminating to a participant an indication that an item accessible by the participant via a network is of current interest comprises computer instructions for receiving in real time an indication that the item is of current interest processing the indication and informing the participant that the item is of current interest.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be presented in more detail in the following detailed description and the accompanying figures which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

A detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the invention is provided below. While the invention is described in conjunction with that preferred embodiment it should be understood that the invention is not limited to any one embodiment. On the contrary the scope of the invention is limited only by the appended claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. For the purpose of example numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The present invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the present invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

When an alert has been received and is being processed as described more fully below the application server comprises an alert software object used to store data relating to and perform certain processing with respect to an alert as described more fully below. The alert software object uses data provided in an alert sent by alerting user along with data retrieved from database associated with the application server to process the alert. Certain of the data that results from the processing performed by alert software object is then stored in database . In one embodiment database is stored in memory in application server . In one embodiment database is stored in a separate structure such as a database server connected either directly or through a communication link with application server .

In one embodiment when a request from a participant for a list of URLs for items of current interest is received the application server comprises a hot list software object used to store certain data concerning and perform certain operations with respect to the request from the participant and the response thereto. In one embodiment the hot list object comprises an interest category array . In one embodiment the interest category array is comprised of one or more interest category objects each of which stores data relating to one interest category identified in the participant s request as being of interest to the participant. In one embodiment the hot list object comprises a hot token array . The hot token array is comprised of a hot token object for each URL of current interest in the database for the category or categories indicated in the participant s request.

As indicated in an alert sent by an alerting user includes in one embodiment at least the URL of the web content considered by the alerting user to be of current interest. In one embodiment an alert may also include an interest selection meaning a category or subject area to which the alerting user believes the web content relates and or a caption in which the alerting user may provide text indicating what the alerting user believes to be of current interest in the web content.

For example a passive alert may be arbitrarily assigned a baseline intensity value of 0.3 and an active alert a baseline intensity value of 0.5. For an active alert 0.1 could be added for each of the following conditions that is satisfied by the alert an interest category selection was included in the alert a caption was included in the alert and or the source of the alert is particularly trusted. Conversely 0.1 could be subtracted from the intensity of an alert from a source known to be unreliable. Alternatively alerts from sources known to be unreliable may be blocked and not assigned any intensity value.

The process illustrated in continues with step in which data values for the alert object data fields described above that are not included in the alert transmission received from the alerting party are retrieved from the database.

Next in step the intensity sum for the URL which is the sum of the intensity values for all of the alerts with respect to the URL is updated. Next in step the intensity rank for the URL is updated to reflect the new alert. In step the interest weight value which represents the number of alerts for a particular URL in which a particular category of interest was indicated is updated. Finally in step the updated data values are stored to the database.

Database tables also include an INTERESTS table used to store the interest weight denominated WEIGHT in for each interest category with respect to which an alert has been submitted for a URL. As noted above in one embodiment the weight is the total number of alerts received within a given interest category for a URL. For example if five alerts indicating the interest category People and three alerts indicating the interest category Nature have been submitted for a URL there will be two entries for the URL in the interest table one for each interest category. The weight in the entry for the category People would be 5 and the weight for the URL in the category Nature would be 3 .

The database tables also include a RANK table used to store a rank value for each URL associated with an item of current interest a time stamp when the rank was last calculated and a data entity denominated NUM ALERT in which represents the total number of alerts submitted for the URL.

The database tables also include a COMMENTS table used to store any comment submitted with an alert and to associate each comment with the corresponding URL. Finally the database tables include a NORMALIZE table used to store the sum of the intensities of the alerts submitted for a URL INTENSITY SUM and a time stamp indicating when the last normalization was performed.

If an alert is the first alert received for a URL the last rank is considered to be zero r 0 and the above formula results in the new rank being equal to the intensity value for the current alert. For example if the intensity value for the current alert is 0.5 the updated heat rank r 1 0 0.5 0 0.5. If a subsequent alert of intensity 0.6 is received the formula results in the updated intensity rank being calculated as follows 1 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.8

As the example illustrates so long as additional alerts are received within the time interval each incoming alert will cause the intensity rank for the URL to increase until the intensity rank approaches the maximum intensity value k in the example the rank would approach k 1 . The speed with which the intensity rank for a particular URL approaches the maximum value k depends on the intensity value of the incoming alerts and the frequency with which alerts are received.

In one embodiment if the predetermined time interval r referred to above has expired between the last alert and the current alert the updated intensity rank is calculated by a modified formula which reduces the updated intensity rank in accordance with an exponential decay function that effectively adjusts the updated intensity rank downward to account for the passage of time between the last alert and the current alert. All other things being equal this adjustment would result in a site that received alerts more frequently to have a higher rank than a site that received alerts separated by more than the predetermined time interval. To determine the updated intensity rank as adjusted for the passage of time the following formula is used in one embodiment 4 

In this formula k r and Iare the same as above a is the weight assigned to the decay function a higher value for a will result in a greater amount of decay per unit time t is the amount of time that has elapsed between the current alert and the previous alert and is the predetermined time interval referred to above.

In one embodiment the updated intensity rank is normalized by multiplying the updated intensity rank by two factors. The first factor is a low frequency enhancement factor designed to enhance the intensity rank of URLs with respect to which alerts are received relatively less frequently relative to the intensity rank of URLs regarding which alerts are received more frequently. The purpose of this enhancement factor is to ensure that sites that are of current interest only from time to time are not masked by the intensity ranking calculated for sites that are of current interest more frequently. In one embodiment the low frequency enhancement factor is the time of the current alert minus the time of the last update to the intensity rank.

The second factor by which the updated intensity rank is multiplied is a low volume enhancement factor The purpose of this factor is to ensure that the intensity rank of URLs that are of current interest only to a smaller community of users will not be overshadowed by the intensity rank of URLs that are of current interest to a large community. In one embodiment the low volume enhancement factor is the inverse of the intensity sum for the URL. Accordingly in one embodiment the normalized intensity rank is determined by the following formula 1 Where

Once the intensity rank has been updated and normalized the process shown in continues with step in which the time stamps for the normalization and intensity rank tables are updated to the time stamp of the current alert.

If it is determined in step that there is an existing record for the interest category for the alert with respect to the alert URL the process proceeds to step in which the weight value stored in the record is retrieved. The process then continues to step in which the retrieved weight is incremented by one to reflect the current alert. For example if the retrieve weight were 7 the weight would be incremented to 8 in step to reflect the current alert.

The process shown in continues with step in which an intensity rank adjusted for time decay is calculated for the URL. In one embodiment the time decayed 5 intensity rank is determined by the following formula Where r time decayed intensity rank a weight of decay function t time elapsed since last alert predetermined time interval referred to above r stored intensity rank.

As can be seen from the above formula the time decayed intensity rank decays exponentially over time if no new alerts are received. If it is determined in step of the process shown in that the time decayed intensity rank is below the intensity rank threshold the process proceeds to step in which the record for the URL is deleted. If it is determined in step that the time decayed intensity rank is not below the intensity rank threshold the process proceeds to step in which the intensity rank as stored in the database is left unchanged.

The display also includes an interest category filter selection area in which interest categories are listed along with a check box for each category listed. The participant selects the check box for each interest category for which the participant would like URLs of current interest to be included in the participant s hot list.

In one embodiment filter selection area includes for each category a sensitivity entry area not shown in to be used to provide an indication of the participant s degree or level of interest. For example in one embodiment a participant may enter a whole number from 1 to 5 with 1 indicating the lowest level of sensitivity e.g. the participant does not want to receive a notification regarding a URL in the category unless a significant number of alerts have been received regarding the URL or only when the intensity rank for the URL exceeds a predetermined relatively high threshold and 5 representing the highest level of sensitivity e.g. the participant wants to receive a notification even if there has only been one or relatively few alerts concerning a URL or if one or more alerts have been received but the intensity rank for the URL is relatively low .

In one embodiment a request is sent to the application server automatically at predetermined intervals. The request contains the interest categories that are in the selected state at the time the request is sent. In one embodiment the display includes a submit button not shown in that when selected causes a request containing the interest categories selected by the participant at the time to be posted to the application server via the Internet.

The display also includes a hot list display area in which the hot list of URLs returned by the system to the participant in response to a request is presented. As shown in in one embodiment each URL is represented by a hypertext link that when selected causes the URL of the listed cite to appear in the URL entry and display area and the content associated with the URL to be displayed in the URL display area .

In one embodiment the display is modified to include an alert submission display area such as the alert submission display shown in . This would permit a participant to send an active alert to the application server if the participant encounters a URL of current interest.

Next in step a hot token object is created in a hot token array within the hot list object for each URL found in step as described above with respect to hot token array shown in . Each hot token object holds the URL ID the WEIGHT for the URL with respect to the interest category indicated in the request the sum of the WEIGHT values for each category associated with the URL in the database and the intensity rank RANK for the URL.

Next in step a list rank is determined for each URL retrieved in response to the request. In one embodiment a list rank value is calculated for each URL and is used to determine the list rank or the order in which the responsive URLs will be placed to determine which URLs will be provided . In one embodiment an initial list rank value is calculated for each URL based on the interest category weight s for the URL with respect to the interest category or categories in the request along with the interest weight for any interest category or categories that are associated with the URL in the database but which are not among the categories indicated in the request. In one embodiment the initial list rank value v of a URL number n v is calculated according to the following formula 

For example if at the time of the request there had been ten alerts submitted for a particular URL and three of the alerts were associated with a first category two with a second category and five with a third category and if a request were received that included among the request categories the first and third categories the initial list rank value v for URL number n calculated in accordance with the above formula would be as follows 

It should be noted that the use of the square root of the weight for each category tends to give relatively greater effect to the weight of interest categories associated with the URL by a minority of alerting users because using the square root reduces the net effect of the greater weight value associated with interest categories indicated by the majority of alerting users. As with the normalization of the intensity rank described above this has the effect of giving more visibility to matters of interest to a relatively smaller community.

In an embodiment in which the participant indicates a level of sensitivity with respect to each selected interest category as described above the formula for the initial list rank value is modified to take into consideration the sensitivity s indicated for each category of interest. In one embodiment the initial list rank value formula is modified as follows 

For example in the example described above assume the participant indicated a sensitivity level of 1 with respect to the first category and 5 with respect to the third category the initial list rank value would be calculated as follows 

 As noted above the sensitivity level s used for the second category having weight 2 in the denominator is set at 1 because in the example the participant did not select that category. 

The initial list rank value determined by this calculation 0.83 is greater than the initial list rank value found in the above calculation of an initial list rank value in an embodiment in which sensitivity levels are not assigned or considered 0.74 . This illustrates the effect of assigning sensitivity levels. The initial list rank value determined in the second calculation which takes into account a sensitivity level for each category is higher than it would have been found to be without regard to sensitivity because the participant indicated a higher sensitivity for one of the categories with respect to which alerts had been received for the URL.

In this way high sensitivity users are more likely to become aware of and access a URL with respect to which one or more alerts have been received in a category for which the user has indicated a high sensitivity. If such a high sensitivity user chose to send alerts of their own with respect to the URL such activity would increase the intensity rank for the URL as described above and would tend to propagate the original alert or alerts to lower sensitivity users because the intensity rank is factored into the final list rank used to identify the final list of URLs to be provided to a participant as described below . If such lower sensitivity users were to send even more alerts the original alerts would be further propagated to even lower sensitivity users and so on.

In one embodiment the initial list rank value determined by the interest category weights as described above is used along with the intensity rank for the URL to calculate a final list rank value for the URL. In one embodiment the final list rank value for URL number n is calculated in accordance with the following formula 1 Where

In the above equation the weight factor determines the relative weight afforded to the intensity rank for the URL and the initial list rank calculated based on the interest category weights as described above. If the value for is selected to be 1 the final list rank would be equal to the intensity rank for the URL and the initial list rank would not factor into the final list rank at all. Therefore a higher weight factor will tend to increase the influence of the intensity rank for the URL and decrease the effect of the initial list rank. Stated another way a low weight factor tends to give more effect to the extent to which the interest categories associated with the URL in the database match the interest categories indicated in the request from the participant. Conversely a higher weight factor tends to give greater effect to the overall popularity of the URL as measured by the intensity rank.

Once the list rank for each retrieved URL has been calculated in step in step the retrieved URLs are sorted by list rank. Then in step the top ten URLs by list rank are selected as the hot list of URLs to be sent to the participant in response to the request. The number ten is an arbitrary number and either a fewer number or greater number of URLs may be included.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the process and apparatus of the present invention. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

