---

title: Periodic channel state information reporting for coordinated multipoint (CoMP) systems
abstract: Technology for periodic channel state information (CSI) reporting from a user equipment (UE) configured for carrier aggregation is disclosed. One method can include the UE generating a plurality of periodic CSI reports for transmission in a subframe for a plurality of CSI processes, wherein each periodic CSI report corresponds to a CSI process with a CSI process index. A single periodic CSI report from the plurality of periodic CSI reports may be selected to multiplex with a hybrid automatic repeat request-acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK) feedback. The periodic CSI report multiplex with the HARQ-ACK feedback and any scheduling request (SR) may be determined to have a bit size less than or equal to a physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) format 3 maximum payload bit size. The periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ-ACK feedback and any SR may be transmitted to a serving cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09369922&OS=09369922&RS=09369922
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09369922
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130503
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 688 794 filed Nov. 29 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 679 627 filed Aug. 3 2012. The present application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 707 784 filed Sep. 28 2012 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node can be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

A Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system may also be used to reduce interference from neighboring nodes in both homogeneous networks and HetNets. In the CoMP system the nodes referred to as cooperating nodes can also be grouped together with other nodes where the nodes from multiple cells can transmit signals to the wireless device and receive signals from the wireless device. The cooperating nodes can be nodes in the homogeneous network or macro nodes and or lower power nodes LPN in the HetNet. CoMP operation can apply to downlink transmissions and uplink transmissions. Downlink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given wireless device e.g. UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a wireless device e.g. UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and or dynamic cell selection. Uplink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories joint reception JR and coordinated scheduling and beamforming CS CB . With JR a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH transmitted by the wireless device e.g. UE can be received jointly at multiple points at a time frame. The set of the multiple points can constitute the CoMP reception point RP set and can be included in part of UL CoMP cooperating set or in an entire UL CoMP cooperating set. JR can be used to improve the received signal quality. In CS CB user scheduling and precoding selection decisions can be made with coordination among points corresponding to the UL CoMP cooperating set. With CS CB PUSCH transmitted by the UE can be received at one point.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

An increase in the amount of wireless data transmission has created congestion in wireless networks using licensed spectrum to provide wireless communication services for wireless devices such as smart phones and tablet devices. The congestion is especially apparent in high density and high use locations such as urban locations and universities.

One technique for providing additional bandwidth capacity to wireless devices is through the use carrier aggregation of multiple smaller bandwidths to form a virtual wideband channel at a wireless device e.g. UE . In carrier aggregation CA multiple component carriers CC can be aggregated and jointly used for transmission to from a single terminal. Carriers can be signals in permitted frequency domains onto which information is placed. The amount of information that can be placed on a carrier can be determined by the aggregated carrier s bandwidth in the frequency domain. The permitted frequency domains are often limited in bandwidth. The bandwidth limitations can become more severe when a large number of users are simultaneously using the bandwidth in the permitted frequency domains.

Carrier aggregation CA enables multiple carrier signals to be simultaneously communicated between a user s wireless device and a node. Multiple different carriers can be used. In some instances the carriers may be from different permitted frequency domains. Carrier aggregation provides a broader choice to the wireless devices enabling more bandwidth to be obtained. The greater bandwidth can be used to communicate bandwidth intensive operations such as streaming video or communicating large data files.

Network symmetric or asymmetric carrier aggregation can be defined by a number of downlink DL and uplink UL component carriers offered by a network in a sector. UE symmetric or asymmetric carrier aggregation can be defined by a number of downlink DL and uplink UL component carriers configured for a UE. The number of DL CCs may be at least the number of UL CCs. A system information block type 2 SIB2 can provide specific linking between the DL and the UL by means of signaling EUTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number EARFCN for the UL which is associated with a corresponding DL. illustrates a block diagram of a symmetric asymmetric carrier aggregation configuration where the carrier aggregation is symmetric between the DL and UL for the network and asymmetric between the DL and UL for the UE. illustrates a block diagram of an asymmetric symmetric carrier aggregation configuration where the carrier aggregation is asymmetric between the DL and UL for the network and symmetric between the DL and UL for the UE.

A component carrier can be used to carry channel information via a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a uplink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in . While an LTE frame structure is illustrated a frame structure for an IEEE 802.16 standard WiMax an IEEE 802.11 standard WiFi or another type of communication standard using SC FDMA or OFDMA may also be used.

Reference signals RS can be transmitted by SC FDMA symbols via resource elements in the resource blocks. Reference signals or pilot signals or tones can be a known signal used for various reasons such as to synchronize timing estimate a channel and or noise in the channel. Reference signals can be received and transmitted by wireless devices and nodes. Different types of reference signals RS can be used in a RB. For example in LTE systems uplink reference signal types can include a sounding reference signal SRS and a UE specific reference signal UE specific RS or UE RS or a demodulation reference signal DM RS . In LTE systems downlink reference signal types can include channel state information reference signals CSI RS which can be measured by a wireless device to provide CSI reports on a channel.

An uplink signal or channel can include data on a Physical Uplink Shared CHannel PUSCH or control information on a Physical Uplink Control CHannel PUCCH . In LTE the uplink physical channel PUCCH carrying uplink control information UCI can include channel state information CSI reports Hybrid Automatic Retransmission reQuest HARQ ACKnowledgment Negative ACKnowledgment ACK NACK and uplink scheduling requests SR .

The wireless device can provide aperiodic CSI reporting using the PUSCH or periodic CSI reporting using PUCCH. The PUCCH can support multiple formats i.e. PUCCH format with various modulation and coding schemes MCS as shown for LTE in Table 1. For example PUCCH format 3 can be used to convey multi bit HARQ ACK which can be used for a UE supporting carrier aggregation in Time Division Duplex TDD .

In another example PUCCH format 2 can use frequency hopping as illustrated in . Frequency hopping can be a method of transmitting radio signals by rapidly switching a carrier among many frequency channels using a pseudorandom sequence or specified sequence known to both a transmitter e.g. UE in an uplink and a receiver e.g. eNB in the uplink . Frequency hopping can enable the UE to exploit the frequency diversity of a wideband channel used in LTE in an uplink while keeping a contiguous allocation in the time domain .

The PUCCH can include various channel state information CSI reports. The CSI components in the CSI reports can include a channel quality indicator CQI a precoding matrix indicator PMI a precoding type indicator PTI and or rank indication RI reporting type. The CQI can be signaled by a UE to the eNodeB to indicate a suitable data rate such as a modulation and coding scheme MCS value for downlink transmissions which can be based on a measurement of the received downlink signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR and knowledge of the UE s receiver characteristics. The PMI can be a signal fed back by the UE to support multiple input multiple output MIMO operation. The PMI can correspond to an index of the precoder within a codebook shared by the UE and eNodeB which can maximize an aggregate number of data bits which can be received across all downlink spatial transmission layers. PTI can be used to distinguish slow from fast fading environments. The RI can be signaled to the eNodeB by UEs configured for PDSCH transmission modes 3 e.g. open loop spatial multiplexing and 4 e.g. closed loop spatial multiplexing . RI can correspond to a number of useful transmission layers for spatial multiplexing based on the UE s estimate of the downlink channel enabling the eNodeB to adapt the PDSCH transmissions accordingly.

The granularity of a CQI report can be divided into three levels wideband UE selected subband and higher layer configured subband. The wideband CQI report can provide one CQI value for an entire downlink system bandwidth. The UE selected subband CQI report can divide the system bandwidth into multiple subbands where the UE can select a set of preferred subbands the best M subbands then report one CQI value for the wideband and one differential CQI value for the set assuming transmission only over the selected M subbands . The higher layer configured subband CQI report can provide a highest granularity. In the higher layer configured subband CQI report the wireless device can divide the entire system bandwidth into multiple subbands then reports one wideband CQI value and multiple differential CQI values such as one for each subband.

The UCI carried by the PUCCH can use different PUCCH reporting types or CQI PMI and RI reporting types to specify which CSI reports are being transmitted. For example PUCCH reporting Type 1 can support CQI feedback for UE selected sub bands Type 1a can support subband CQI and second PMI feedback Type 2 Type 2b and Type 2c can support wideband CQI and PMI feedback Type 2a can support wideband PMI feedback Type 3 can supports RI feedback Type 4 can supports wideband CQI Type 5 can support RI and wideband PMI feedback and Type 6 can support RI and PTI feedback.

Different CSI components can be included based on the PUCCH reporting type. For example RI can be included in PUCCH reporting types 3 5 or 6. Wideband PTI can be included in PUCCH reporting type 6. Wideband PMI can be included in PUCCH reporting types 2a or 5. Wideband CQI can be included in PUCCH reporting types 2 2b 2c or 4. Subband CQI can be included in PUCCH reporting types 1 or 1a.

The CQI PMI and RI PUCCH reporting types with distinct periods and offsets can be supported for the PUCCH CSI reporting modes illustrated by the table in . illustrates an example for LTE of the PUCCH reporting type and payload size per PUCCH reporting mode and mode state.

The CSI information reported can vary based on the downlink transmission scenarios used. The various scenarios for the downlink can be reflected in different transmission modes TMs . For example in LTE TM 1 can use a single transmit antenna TM 2 can use transmit diversity TM 3 can use open loop spatial multiplexing with cyclic delay diversity CDD TM 4 can use closed loop spatial multiplexing TM 5 can use multi user MIMO MU MIMO TM 6 can use closed loop spatial multiplexing using a single transmission layer TM 7 can use beamforming with UE specific RS TM 8 can use single or dual layer beamforming with UE specific RS and TM 9 can use a multilayer transmission to support closed loop single user MIMO SU MIMO or carrier aggregation. In an example TM 10 can be used for coordinated multipoint CoMP signaling such as joint processing JP dynamic point selection DPS and or coordinated scheduling coordinated beamforming CS CB .

Each transmission mode can use different PUCCH CSI reporting modes where each PUCCH CSI reporting mode can represent different CQI and PMI feedback types as shown for LTE in Table 2.

For example in LTE TMs 1 2 3 and 7 can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 0 or 2 0 TMs 4 5 and 6 can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 1 or 2 1 TM 8 can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 1 or 2 1 if the UE is configured with PMI RI reporting or PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 0 or 2 0 if the UE is configured without PMI RI reporting and TMs 9 and 10 can use PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 1 or 2 1 if the UE is configured with PMI RI reporting and number of CSI RS ports is greater than one or PUCCH CSI reporting modes 1 0 or 2 0 if the UE is configured without PMI RI reporting or number of CSI RS ports is equal to one. Based on the downlink transmission scheme e.g. transmission mode a UE can generate more CSI reports than may be permitted to be transmitted to nodes e.g. eNBs without generating a signal collision or interference. The wireless device e.g. UE may make a determination on the CSI reports to keep and transmit and which CSI reports to drop or discard and not transmit to avoid a collision on a subframe.

In CSI reporting the PUCCH format 2 can convey 4 to 11 CSI CQI PMI PTI RI bits from the UE to the eNB. In carrier aggregation each serving cell can be independently configured by radio resource control RRC signaling regarding a CSI configuration such as a periodicity a starting offset or a PUCCH mode. However the transmission of CSI using PUCCH format 2 may only be performed in primary cell. In an example using PUCCH format 2 one CSI report for a specified serving cell may be transmitted while the remaining CSI reports for other serving cells may be dropped when more than one CSI report for multiple serving cells has a potential to collide with each other in a same subframe. Dropping the CSI reports for other serving cells may prevent the collision of the CSI reports in the same subframe. In an example the criteria used to determine the priority of a periodic CSI reports transmitted and the periodic CSI reports that are dropped can be based on a PUCCH reporting type with a lower CSI reporting type priority being dropped. PUCCH reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a can have a highest or top priority and PUCCH reporting types 2 2b 2c and 4 can have a next priority or a second priority and PUCCH reporting types 1 and 1a can have a third or lowest priority. So the UE can drop the CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types 1 1a first then drop the CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types 2 2b 2c and 4 second then drop any CSI reports with PUCCH reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a above the number of CSI report s to be transmitted. In an example a CSI report can be generated for each component carrier CC . Each CC can be represented by a serving cell index i.e. ServCellIndex . Among CSI reports having reporting types with a same priority e.g. PUCCH reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a a priority of a cell can decrease as the corresponding serving cell index i.e. ServCellIndex increases i.e. the lower cell index has higher priority .

In another example the CSI report priority can be based on the CSI component where RI and wideband PMI reporting have a higher priority than CQI reporting and wideband CQI reporting has a higher priority than subband CQI reporting. RI can have a higher priority because RI can provide general information about a network channel condition. In an example PMI and CQI can be dependent on RI. Wideband CQI can have higher priority than subband CQI because wideband CQI can provide general quality information about a channel or to a worst case scenario of the channel whereas the subband CQI provides narrower subband channel quality information.

In an example additional CSI reports can be generated in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system. Additional criteria for dropping CSI reports may be used in a CoMP system. A CoMP system also known as multi eNodeB multiple input multiple output MIMO can be used to improve interference mitigation. At least four basic scenarios can be used for CoMP operation.

Downlink DL CoMP transmission can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given mobile communication device UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a mobile communication device UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and dynamic cell selection. Two methods can be used for joint transmission non coherent transmission which uses soft combining reception of the OFDM signal and coherent transmission which performs precoding between cells for in phase combining at the receiver. By coordinating and combining signals from multiple antennas CoMP allows mobile users to enjoy consistent performance and quality for high bandwidth services whether the mobile user is close to the center of a cell or at the outer edges of the cell.

Even with a single serving cell i.e. single component carrier CC scenario multiple periodic CSI reports may be transmitted for DL CoMP. The PUCCH report can define the format and uplink resources on which CSI can be provided i.e. the PUCCH report configuration can define how to transmit the CSI feedback. For CoMP operations measuring the CSI can be defined by a CoMP CSI process which can include a configuration of a channel and interference part. Therefore different CSI reports can be associated with different processes. For example the CoMP CSI measurement associated with one CoMP CSI process can be transmitted using periodic or aperiodic feedback modes.

The multiple periodic CSI processes can be configured by the network using certain IDs or index numbers in order to facilitate the multiple periodic CSI feedbacks. As used herein the CSI process index CSIProcessIndex or CSIProcessID refers to such realization of multiple periodic CSI processes. For example if a serving cell e.g. serving node configures three periodic CSI processes the network can configure three CSI periodic processes and the CSIProcessIndex can be numbered as 0 1 and 2. Each periodic CSI process can be configured by RRC signaling independently.

In legacy LTE only one periodic CSI report may be transmitted by PUCCH format 2 2a or 2b. In a case where more than one periodic CSI transmission coincides in a subframe only one periodic CSI report may be transmitted and the remaining periodic CSI reports may be dropped. Although the multiple periodic CSI reports can be transmitted on either the PUCCH with PUCCH format 3 or the PUSCH the maximum payload for aggregated periodic CSI can still be limited. For example up to 22 information bits can be conveyed using PUCCH format 3. Thus if the number of aggregated periodic CSI bits exceeds 22 bits the remaining CSI reports may be dropped. In an example if PUCCH format 2 is used for periodic CSI transmission only one CSI process may be selected for the transmission regardless of the capacity criterion.

Various methods can be used to determine what CSI process or CSI report can be dropped when the CSIProcessID is used. For illustration purposes the PUCCH with the PUCCH format 3 which can convey multiple CSI is assumed however the same principle can be used in other cases such as other PUCCH formats or PUSCH.

If aggregated periodic CSI information bits do not exceed a maximum capacity of a certain PUCCH format e.g. PUCCH format 2 PUCCH format 3 PUSCH or other formats the aggregated periodic CSI can be transmitted on the corresponding PUCCH format. Otherwise i.e. if the aggregated periodic CSI information bits exceed the maximum capacity of the certain PUCCH format the periodic CSIs among the CSI processes can be selected such that the aggregated periodic CSI payload is a largest number of CSI processes not more than the maximum capacity for the PUCCH format used in the PUCCH. For example if the number of CSI processes is 5 and PUCCH format 3 is used and if the number of CSI bits is 11 for each CSI process the CSI for only two CSI processes may be transmitted on PUCCH format 3 and the remaining 3 CSI processes may be dropped.

Various methods can be used to determine a priority rule for dropping CSI processes and or reports. PUCCH using PUCCH format 3 with multi process CSI transmission or PUCCH format 2 with a single CSI process can be used. For example if the PUCCH uses PUCCH format 2 for periodic CSI transmission only one CSI process may be selected for the transmission regardless of the capacity criterion.

In a method i.e. method 1 the priority for retaining or dropping the CSI processes in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be determined by a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 3 5 6 and 2a then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 2 2b 2c and 4 then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 1 and 1a.

If the aggregated number of CSI bits still exceeds 22 bits with PUCCH format 3 or more than one CSI process remains with PUCCH format 2 one of two rules can be used. Using a first rule a CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes with a same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types can be determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID . For example a priority of a CSI process ID decreases as the corresponding CSI process ID increases thus a lower CSI process ID can have a higher priority. Using a second rule the priority of the can be CSI process configured by RRC signaling.

In another method i.e. method 2 a priority for retaining or dropping the CSI processes in a colliding subframe can be given by RRC signaling. In an example a maximum capacity for PUCCH format 2 can be 11 bits PUCCH format 3 can be 22 bits and PUSCH can be 55 bits.

A priority for retaining or dropping the CSI reports can also be determined for a simultaneous usage of carrier aggregation using a ServCellIndex and CoMP scenarios using a CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex such as transmission mode 10. The priorities for dropping CSI reports can be defined considering both a carrier and CSI process domain.

For example in a method i.e. method A the priority for the CSI processes and component carrier used for dropping or retaining CSI reports in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be based on a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 3 5 6 and 2a then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 2 2b 2c and 4 then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 1 and 1a.

If an aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format 3 or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format 2 one of three rules can be used. Using a first rule a CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the serving cells with the same priority of PUCCH reporting modes and or types can be determined based on the serving cell indices e.g. ServCellIndex . Priority of a cell can decrease as a corresponding serving cell index increases.

If the aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format 3 or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format 2 the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types and with a same serving cell index can be determined based on a CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

Using a second rule the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes for each serving cell with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types can be determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

If the aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format 3 or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format 2 the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the serving cells with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types and with a same CSI process index can be determined based on a serving cell index e.g. ServCellIndex . Priority of a cell can decrease as a corresponding serving cell index increases.

Using a third rule the priority across CCs used in carrier aggregation and or CSI process indices used in CoMP scenarios can be configured by RRC signaling.

In another method i.e. method B all the priorities for the CSI processes used in CoMP scenarios and the component carrier used in carrier aggregation can be configured by RRC signaling.

In another method i.e. method C the CSI process index can be uniquely defined across serving cells and CSI processes i.e. the unique CSI process index can be combination of the CSIProcessIndex and the ServCellIndex . In an example the CSI process index can be determined and communicated via RRC signaling. For example with two serving cell aggregations and three CSI processes per serving cell the total number of CSI processes can be uniquely defined for 6 CSI processes i.e. per CSI process 0 1 2 3 4 and 5.

Using a unique CSI process index the priority for the CSI processes used for dropping or retaining CSI reports in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be based on a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 3 5 6 and 2a then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 2 2b 2c and 4 then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 1 and 1a.

If an aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format 3 or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format 2 the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes with the priority of PUCCH reporting modes and or types can be determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

In another method i.e. method D a default CSI process index can be defined on each serving cell. Each default CSI process index can have a highest priority per each serving cell. Using a default CSI process index for each serving cell the priority for the CSI processes used for dropping or retaining CSI reports in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be based on a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 3 5 6 and 2a then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 2 2b 2c and 4 then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 1 and 1a.

If an aggregated number of CSI bits is still more than 22 with PUCCH format 3 or more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format 2 the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the default CSI processes with the priority of PUCCH reporting modes and or types can be determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

In another example a dropping rule for a combined carrier aggregation and CoMP scenario can be used for multiplexing the CSI and HARQ ACK using PUCCH format 3. Automatic Repeat reQuest is a feedback mechanism whereby a receiving terminal requests retransmission of packets which are detected to be erroneous. Hybrid ARQ is a simultaneous combination of Automatic Retransmission reQuest ARQ and forward error correction FEC which can enables the overhead of error correction to be adapted dynamically depending on the channel quality. When HARQ is used and if the errors can be corrected by FEC then no retransmission may be requested otherwise if the errors can be detected but not corrected a retransmission can be requested. An ACKnowledgment ACK signal can be transmitted to indicate that one or more blocks of data such as in a PDSCH have been successfully received and decoded. HARQ ACK Negative ACKnowledgement NACK or NAK information can include feedback from a receiver to the transmitter in order to acknowledge a correct reception of a packet or ask for a new retransmission via NACK or NAK .

In an example for a UE configured with PUCCH format 3 for HARQ ACK transmission and for a subframe where a UE is configured to transmit HARQ ACK transmission with periodic CSI and for a subframe where a PUCCH format 3 resource is indicated to the UE for HARQ ACK transmission the UE can transmit HARQ ACK and a single cell periodic CSI report. In other words the UE can multiplex the HARQ ACK feedback with the periodic CSI report. No additional PUCCH format 3 resources in addition to the format 3 resource may be configured for HARQ ACK and periodic CSI multiplexing. The UE may receive through an ACK NACK Resource Indicator ARI from the serving cell an indication that the UE has a PUCCH format 3 resource to perform the HARQ ACK transmissions. In particular one or more transmission power control TPC commands in the downlink control information DCI may indicate the ARI to the UE.

The UE may transmit the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback to the evolved node B eNB when the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback has a bit size less than or equal to a payload bit size of a PUCCH format 3. The PUCCH format 3 has a maximum payload bit size of 22 aggregated information bits. Therefore the HARQ ACK and the periodic CSI including any scheduling request SR can be transmitted when jointly coded up to or equal to 22 aggregated information bits. The SR may be a single bit of information that indicates the UE has new data to transmit.

In a combined carrier aggregation and CoMP case only one CSI report may be selected for a combined CSI process and ACK NACK A N feedback on a PUCCH with PUCCH format 3. In other words the UE transmits a single periodic CSI report corresponding to a single CoMP CSI process that is multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback. Therefore if a plurality of periodic CSI reports are generated a single periodic CSI report can be selected from the plurality of periodic CSI reports and multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback for transmission to the serving cell. The selected rule of method A B C and D above can be used to select one periodic CSI report for the combined CSI process and A N on the PUCCH with PUCCH format 3.

For example the dropping rule using method A can be represented as follows The priority for the CSI processes and component carrier used for dropping or retaining CSI reports in a colliding subframe or potentially colliding subframe can first be based on a PUCCH reporting type and or PUCCH reporting mode. A first or highest priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 3 5 6 and 2a then a next or second priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 2 2b 2c and 4 then a third or last priority CSI process can be given to PUCCH reporting Types 1 and 1a.

If more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format 2 a CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the CSI processes for each serving cell with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types can determined based on the CSI process index e.g. CSIProcessID or CSIProcessIndex . Priority of a CSI process index can decrease as a corresponding CSI process index increases.

Then if more than one CSI process still remains with PUCCH format 2 the CQI PMI PTI RI reporting priorities among the serving cells with the same priority of PUCCH reporting mode and or types and with a same CSI process index can be determined based on a serving cell index e.g. ServCellIndex . Priority of a cell can decrease as a corresponding serving cell index increases.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a user equipment UE operable to report periodic channel state information CSI as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The computer circuitry can be configured to generate a periodic CSI report for transmission in a subframe for a CSI process wherein the periodic CSI report corresponds to the CSI process for a selected serving cell as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to multiplex a hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement HARQ ACK feedback with the periodic CSI report as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to determine that the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback has a bit size less than or equal to a payload bit size in a physical uplink control channel PUCCH format 3 as in block . In addition the computer circuitry may be configured to transmit the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback to an evolved node B eNB as in block .

In one configuration the computer circuitry may be configured to transmit the HARQ ACK feedback without the periodic CSI report to the serving cell when the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback has a bit size greater than the payload bit size in the PUCCH format 3. In one example the payload bit size in the PUCCH format 3 has a maximum payload bit size of 22 aggregated information bits. In addition the HARQ ACK feedback includes a scheduling request SR . In one example the periodic CSI report corresponding to the CSI process relates to a scenario involving carrier aggregation and coordinated multipoint CoMP transmission.

In another example the computer circuitry may be further configured to receive through an ACK NACK Resource Indicator ARI from the serving cell an indication that the UE has a PUCCH format 3 resource to perform HARQ ACK transmissions. For example one or more transmission power control TPC commands in downlink control information DCI contents indicate the ARI. In addition the UE is operable for carrier aggregation and transmits a single periodic CSI report corresponding to a single CSI process that is multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback to the eNB.

Another example provides a method for periodic channel state information CSI reporting from a user equipment UE configured for carrier aggregation as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of generating a plurality of periodic CSI reports for transmission in a subframe for a plurality of CSI processes wherein each periodic CSI report corresponds to a CSI process with a CSI process index as in block . The method can include selecting a single periodic CSI report from the plurality of periodic CSI reports to multiplex with a hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement HARQ ACK feedback as in block . The next operation of the method can be determining that the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback and any scheduling request SR has a bit size less than or equal to a payload bit size of an physical uplink control channel PUCCH format 3 as in block . The method can further include transmitting the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback and any SR to a serving cell as in block .

The operation of selecting the periodic CSI report can be based on at least one of a channel quality indicator CQI a precoding matrix indicator PMI or a rank indication RI reporting type CQI PMI RI wherein CQI PMI RI reporting types 3 5 6 and 2a have a priority higher than CQI PMI RI reporting types 1 1a 2 2b 2c and 4 and CQI PMI RI reporting types 2 2b 2c and 4 have a priority higher than CQI PMI RI reporting types 1 and 1a. In addition the operation of selecting the periodic CSI report from the plurality of CSI reports can be based on a priority level of the CSI process index associated with PUCCH format 2 wherein a lower CSI process index indicates a higher priority CSI process.

In one example the operation of selecting the periodic CSI report from the plurality of CSI reports can be based on a priority level of a serving cell index or a component carrier CC wherein the CC with a higher priority level has a lower serving cell index. In another example the method may include transmitting the HARQ ACK feedback including any SR without the periodic CSI report to the serving cell when the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback and any SR has a payload bit size greater than the PUCCH format 3. In one example the payload bit size in the PUCCH format 3 has a maximum payload bit size of 22 aggregated information bits. In one configuration the periodic CSI report corresponding to the CSI process relates to a scenario involving carrier aggregation and coordinated multipoint CoMP transmission.

In addition the CSI process for the periodic CSI report is related to a transmission mode 10 in Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Release 11.

In another example the method can further include receiving through an ACK NACK Resource Indicator ARI from the serving cell an indication that the UE has a PUCCH format 3 resource to perform HARQ ACK transmissions. In addition the serving cell is selected from a group comprising a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a sector a frequency allocation FA or a remote radio unit RRU .

The wireless device can include a transceiver module and a processing module . The wireless device can be configured for a periodic channel state information CSI transmission configured in a specified transmission mode such as transmission mode used in a CoMP operation. The processing module can be configured to generate a plurality of periodic CSI reports for transmission in a subframe for a plurality CSI processes wherein each periodic CSI report corresponds to a CSI process The processing module can be further configured to select a single periodic CSI report from the plurality of periodic CSI reports to multiplex with a hybrid automatic repeat request acknowledgement HARQ ACK feedback based on at least one of a channel quality indicator CQI a precoding matrix indicator PMI or a rank indication RI reporting type CQI PMI RI . In addition the processing module can be configured to determine that the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback and any scheduling request SR has a bit size less than or equal to a payload bit size of a physical uplink control channel PUCCH format 3. The transceiver module can be configured to transmit the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback and any SR to an evolved node B eNB .

In a configuration the transceiver module can be further configured to transmit the HARQ ACK feedback without the periodic CSI report to the serving cell when the periodic CSI report multiplexed with the HARQ ACK feedback has a bit size greater than the payload bit size of the PUCCH format 3. In one example the payload bit size in the PUCCH format 3 has a maximum payload bit size of 22 aggregated information bits. In another configuration the processing module can be further configured to receive through an ACK NACK Resource Indicator ARI from the serving cell an indication that the UE has a PUCCH format 3 resource to perform HARQ ACK transmissions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

