---

title: Network-based content discovery using messages of a messaging platform
abstract: A system, method, and computer-readable medium for identifying relevant content from a messaging platform. The method can include: identifying a context account; identifying a set of initial accounts of the messaging platform; selecting a set of relevant accounts from among the set of initial accounts; selecting a set of messages authored by the set of relevant accounts based at least on a recency of each of the set of messages; and providing the set of messages in response to a request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509643&OS=09509643&RS=09509643
owner: Twitter, Inc.
number: 09509643
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131112
---
In recent years messaging platforms and network connected personal computing devices have become increasingly ubiquitous. Users are now able to create and share content across multiple devices in real time. As the quantity and availability of user generated and promoted content increases so too does the importance of content discovery. Content discovery refers to functionality that provides and enables users to find interesting content by a service such as a messaging platform.

Simple content discovery techniques focus on immediate connections e.g. friendship within a relationship graph. While only surfacing content from immediate connections can be overly limiting wider breadth approaches can lead to an overload of irrelevant and uninteresting content. Enabling users to more effectively discover new and interesting content can lead to higher engagement growth and potential revenue. Thus as the availability of content increases the potential impact of content discovery functionality will also increase.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for identifying relevant content from a messaging platform. The method can include identifying a context account identifying a set of initial accounts of the messaging platform selecting by a computer processor a set of relevant accounts from among the set of initial accounts by weighting the initial accounts based at least on a relationship of at least a subset of the initial accounts with the context account within a connection graph depicting relationships among accounts of the messaging platform selecting a set of messages authored by the set of relevant accounts based at least on a recency of each of the set of messages and providing the set of messages in response to a request.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for identifying relevant content based on messages from a messaging platform. The system can include a computer processor a content discovery module executing on the computer processor and configured to enable the computer processor to identify a context account identify a set of initial accounts of the messaging platform select a set of relevant accounts from among the set of initial accounts by weighting the initial accounts based at least on a relationship of at least a subset of the initial accounts with the context account within a connection graph depicting relationships among accounts of the messaging platform select a set of messages authored by the set of relevant accounts based at least on a recency of each of the set of messages and provide the set of messages in response to a request.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a non transitory computer readable medium including computer readable program code for identifying a context account identifying a set of initial accounts of the messaging platform selecting by a computer processor a set of relevant accounts from among the set of initial accounts by weighting the initial accounts based at least on a relationship of at least a subset of the initial accounts with the context account within a connection graph depicting relationships among accounts of the messaging platform selecting a set of messages authored by the set of relevant accounts based at least on a recency of each of the set of messages and providing the set of messages in response to a request.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document may contain material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document of the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for identifying relevant content from a messaging platform. A request for relevant content is received from a client. An initial set of accounts is identified and weighted based on one or more criteria e.g. account data context data associated with the request etc. . A result set is selected based on the weighting and provided in response to the request. The result set can include highest ranked accounts and or messages from highest ranked accounts in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the messaging platform is a platform for facilitating real time communication between one or more entities. For example the messaging platform may store millions of accounts of individuals businesses and or other entities e.g. pseudonym accounts novelty accounts etc. . One or more users of each account may use the messaging platform to send messages to other accounts inside and or outside of the messaging platform . The messaging platform may be configured to enable users to communicate in real time i.e. to converse with other users with a minimal delay and to conduct a conversation with one or more other users during simultaneous sessions. In other words the messaging platform may allow a user to broadcast messages and may display the messages to one or more other users within a reasonable time frame so as to facilitate a live conversation between the users. Recipients of a message may have a predefined graph relationship with an account of the user broadcasting the message. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user is not an account holder or is not logged in to an account of the messaging platform . In this case the messaging platform may be configured to allow the user to broadcast messages and or to utilize other functionality of the messaging platform by associating the user with a temporary account or identifier.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the connection graph repository is configured to store one or more connection graphs. shows an example depiction of a connection graph in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. As shown in the connection graph has multiple components including nodes representing accounts of the messaging platform i.e. Account A Account B Account C Account D Account E Account F Account G and edges connecting the various nodes.

The connection graph is a data structure representing relationships i.e. connections between one or more accounts. The connection graph represents accounts as nodes and relationships as edges connecting one or more nodes. A relationship may refer to any association between the accounts e.g. following friending subscribing tracking liking tagging and or etc. . The edges of the connection graph may be directed and or undirected based on the type of relationship e.g. bidirectional unidirectional in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to identify a context account. The context account can be any account associated with and or relevant to a request for content. In one example the context account is an account of a user for which content is requested. In another example the context account is an account or authoring account of a message from which a link was selected resulting in the request.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to identify a set of initial accounts. The initial accounts can be any set of accounts of the messaging platform . For example the initial accounts can be i any arbitrary set of accounts selected randomly from the messaging platform ii all accounts of the messaging platform iii pre filtered accounts which are tagged prior to receiving a request for content e.g. top ranked accounts non spam accounts high credibility accounts etc. iv accounts of a certain type e.g. having a predefined relationship to the context account v a predefined number of most prolific or accounts which have posted content most recently and or any other grouping of one or more accounts. For example the content discovery module can be configured to select initial accounts that are a predefined distance e.g. 2 from the context account within the connection graph.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to select a set of relevant accounts from among the set of initial accounts. The relevant accounts can be selected based on weighting scoring and or ranking the initial set of accounts according to one or more predefined criteria. The following describes one or more criteria and or methods for selecting accounts.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight each of one or more initial accounts based at least on an account attribute of the initial account. Examples of an attribute of an account can include but are not limited to demographic information of a user of the account e.g. income gender age etc. display name user name e.g. an account handle number of uni directional connections e.g. followers fans etc. number of bi directional connections e.g. friends colleagues co workers etc. popularity credibility spam rating and or any other attribute associated with at least one account. In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module is configured to select accounts having an attribute that meets a predefined threshold. For example the content discovery module can select accounts having greater than 200 followers accounts having a spam rating that is less than a predefined maximum rating accounts meeting a predefined popularity metric e.g. minimum amount of engagement views clicks fans per time period and or in aggregate and or accounts created prior to a predefined date time.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based at least on an attribute of the context account. In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module can be configured to match an attribute of the context account to one or more of the initial accounts sharing the attribute and or having a relevance to the attribute. For example if the attribute of the context account includes demographic data indicating that an age of the account s user is 24 the content discovery module can be configured to weight the initial accounts according to their degree of difference from the demographic age of 24. In other words accounts having a demographic age that differs from the context account can be weighted lower than those having a matching demographic age e.g. or can be weighted e.g. linearly or logarithmically lower in proportion to the difference in demographic age . Any other attribute of the context account can be similarly weighted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based at least on a proximity of the initial account to the context account within a connection graph. In one or more embodiments proximity within the connection graph refers to a minimum number of edges connecting two accounts within the connection graph. The content discovery module can be configured to ignore one or more connection types and or account types when calculating proximity. In one example fan or subscriber relationships between user accounts and business accounts can be ignored. In another example the content discovery module only includes uni directional edges in proximity calculation when the relationship originates at the context account. For example an edge representing a follower relationship originates at a following account and arrives at a followed account. In the example of given that account A is the context account and account E is one of the initial accounts the proximity from account A to account E is 2. In another example given that the content discovery module is configured to include only uni directional relationships if they are directed from the context account and towards the initial account the proximity from account E to F is 2.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on a popularity rating. Examples of a popularity rating can include but are not limited to a number of followers connections friends of an account a number of mentions of the account within messages of the messaging platform within a predefined time period ratio of followed to follower accounts of an account a connection velocity of the account e.g. a rate number of new followers of the account a number of links referencing a URL associated with the account within messages of the messaging platform within a predefined time period a number of engagements with content posted by the account within a predefined time period a percentage of engagement to posted content within a predefined time period a number of page views of a profile page of the account within a predefined time period a number of searches associated or referencing the account within a predefined time period a number of external references e.g. URLs linking back to a profile page of the account and or any combination of one or more criteria for estimating popularity. In one or more embodiments the higher the popularity rating of an account the more heavily it is weighted and thus the more likely it is to be selected for inclusion in the final result set. The final popularity rating of the account can be calculated based on a mathematical function of any number of the aforementioned popularity ratings. For example the number of followers of multiple initial accounts may be normalized as a popularity rating. Each account s popularity rating can then be used by the content discovery module to weight an aggregate score of the account. In this example the content discovery module can select the accounts having the highest aggregate scores for inclusion in a result set. In another embodiment the content discovery module is configured to weight and select initial accounts in a single pass analysis without calculating individual scores e.g. by maintaining a rolling list of highest popularity accounts as the analysis is performed .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on engagement. An engagement rating can be calculated or identified for each account and can be used to weight the account accordingly for purposes of selecting accounts. Examples of an engagement rating can include but are not limited to a number of favorites of the messages broadcasted by the account within a predefined time period e.g. within the last week a number of replies to content broadcasted by the account within a predefined time period a number of views of content associated with the account within a predefined time period a number of in message interactions e.g. playback of a video expansion to view details of a message etc. of messages broadcasted by the account within a predefined time period a number of unique visitors to the account s profile page a number of re broadcasts of messages of the account an average number of views per message of the account an average number of visitor views per message of the account and or any other measure of user engagement associated with the account. The content discovery module can be configured to select a subset of the initial accounts for inclusion in a result set of accounts based at least partly on the engagement ratings of the accounts. Thus accounts with a higher engagement rating can be weighted more heavily and thus more likely to be included in the result set.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on one or more whitelists and or blacklists of accounts. The blacklist of accounts can include accounts designated as being associated with spam adult content violating a user agreement and or otherwise flagged for restriction according to one or more embodiments of the invention. Thus for example the content discovery module can be configured to exclude any account identified in the blacklist. In another example the content discovery module restricts accounts associated with adult content based on being flagged in a blacklist of adult accounts to context accounts of adult users. Thus in this example the content discovery module excludes the adult accounts from the analysis and or result set for requests associated with a non adult account. A whitelist of accounts can include a privileged pre authorized or otherwise positively flagged set of accounts. In one or more embodiments a whitelist can further include a whitelist rating and the content discovery module can be configured to positively weight the accounts identified by the whitelist according to their rating. For example known partner accounts news accounts artist accounts advertiser accounts and or other verified accounts can be flagged in the whitelist and weighted more heavily in the selection of accounts e.g. by a predefined amount according to a specified rating etc. . The blacklist and or whitelists can also include a rating intended to weight the corresponding accounts. For example the blacklist can identify high risk accounts and an associated spam rating corresponding to each high risk account. Thus in this example the content discovery module can weight each account identified in the blacklist inversely according to its spam rating.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on embedded content metadata. Embedded content can include one or more widgets scripts and or code modules embedded within one or more external data sources and or web pages. For example one or more html tags can identify an account of the messaging platform in an external web page e.g. the html tags may be used for example to enable the messaging platform to identify and extract rich media content from the web page . In this example these tags and other metadata either internal and or external to the messaging platform are aggregated as a reference rating for one or more referenced accounts. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module is configured to positively weight one or more initial accounts based on their respective reference ratings such that a higher reference rating increases the likelihood that the account is selected for inclusion in the result set.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on number of connections. The content discovery module can be configured to select the accounts having the greatest number of connections and or to otherwise weight the number of connections of the account in determining which initial accounts to select for inclusion in a result set. The content discovery module can further be configured to weight one or more different types of connections. For example the content discovery module can weight the initial accounts based on a number of followers of each initial account. In another example the content discovery module can weight the initial accounts based on a number of uni directional and or bi directional connections e.g. fans subscribers and friends . Any type or combination of connection types can be weighted separately or together in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on a ratio of followers i.e. follower accounts to followed accounts. Any other type of uni directional connection type can also be used in accordance with various embodiments. Thus for example the content discovery module can be configured to calculate a ratio of subscribers of the account to subscribed to accounts. The content discovery module can be configured to positively weight the ratio of one or more initial accounts in the selection of a result set from among a set of initial accounts. Thus in this example the accounts having a higher ratio are more likely to be included in the result set than those having a lower ratio based on the formula and or selection method used.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on one or more trends. The content discovery module can be configured to identify and or calculate one or more trends ratings for one or more of the initial accounts. In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module is configured to weight one or more initial accounts based on their trend rating s when selecting accounts for inclusion in the result set. Examples of a trend rating can include but are not limited to a mention velocity e.g. a number of current mentions of the account among messages a rate of increase in mentions of the account among messages a value indicating that the account is among a top percentage of mentioned searched for followed accounts within a predefined time period an unfollow rating representing a number of accounts removing a graph connection to the account an unfollow rating representing a rate at which accounts have removed graph connections to the account within a predefined time period e.g. within the last 24 hours an aggregate amount or representative value of engagement e.g. rebroadcasts favorites etc. with a set of messages authored by the account and or any other criteria for distinguishing among accounts and or messages based on trends.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on a spam rating and or flag. In one or more embodiments the spam rating is a numerical value representing a probability that a given message includes spam and or a percentage of spam indicators identified within content associated with the account. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module is configured to weight the initial accounts by a predefined amount in response to determining that a spam flag is present and or to weight the initial accounts according to the spam rating such that the likelihood of selecting the account for inclusion in the result set is inversely related to the spam rating e.g. a higher spam rating makes it less likely that the account is selected .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on identifying promoted accounts. The content discovery module can be configured to positively weight promoted accounts by a predefined rating amount and or to select at least a predefined number of promoted accounts for inclusion in the result set. Examples of a promoted account may include but are not limited to an account for which an advertiser has paid to promote content e.g. a message ad account on the messaging platform an account which is promoted by an editor administrator of the messaging platform a partner account which is promoted as part of a partnership agreement an account tagged for promotion an account associated with content tagged for promotion and or any combination thereof. In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module is configured to identify and or create a flag representing one or more promoted accounts and to weight those accounts by a predefined amount based on the flag. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module is configured to identify and or calculate a promoted rating for one or more accounts the promoted rating representing a promotional significance of the account. The content discovery module can be configured to positively weight the account s based on their corresponding promotional rating in the selection of a result set from among a set of initial accounts.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on cashtags. A cashtag can be any token or string of text identifiable as being associated with finance. In one or more embodiments cashtags are identified based on a character prefix such as . For example the content discovery module can be configured to detect that the cashtag DJI refers to a stock ticker symbol for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The content discovery module can be configured to categorize accounts associated with specific cashtags and or based on a general finance category by identifying content posted by each account and identifying cashtags. The content discovery module can categorize the accounts based on a frequency of specific and or general cashtags within the account s content history. In one example the content discovery module determines that if the account has posted at least 5 messages containing cashtags within the preceding week the account is flagged as belonging to a finance category. The content discovery module then weights this account more heavily based on the flag when performing one or more searches for finance related content. In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module is configured to flag the context account as being associated with finance and or one or more specific cashtags based on a content history of the context account. The content discovery module can be configured for context accounts associated with finance and or specific cashtags to weight finance related initial accounts and or initial accounts flagged as being related to those cashtags more heavily e.g. by a predefined amount when selecting initial accounts for inclusion in a result set.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on temporal data associated with one or more accounts. Temporal data can include but is not limited to a time of day a current season a future time associated with a request for content e.g. assuming the content is intended for future presentation to a user and or any other time related data usable in the identification of content from the messaging platform . For example the content discovery module can be configured to weight finance cashtag related accounts and or messages more heavily during business hours or during trading hours of a financial exchange than during non business or non trading hours. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module positively weights these accounts by a predefined amount during business hours or trading hours and does not positively weight the accounts during non business or non trading hours. In one example the content discovery module is configured to identify accounts associated with events occurring at a predefined time e.g. accounts associated with a public holiday tax preparation accounts associated with the income tax filing deadline of a particular tax jurisdiction accounts associated with a publicized event such as a concert or other entertainment event etc. . In this example the content discovery module is configured to weight these accounts more heavily within a predefined time period of the event. In other words the content discovery module identifies a timing associated with the event e.g. a date duration or a point in time and a predefined time window for weighting accounts. Upon detecting that the current time is within the predefined time window of the time associated with the event the content discovery module is configured to identify accounts associated with the event and to positively weight those accounts during content discovery.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module is configured to weight the accounts based on a proximity to a timing of the event. As the timing of the event approaches the content discovery module weights the accounts associated with that event more and more heavily until the event occurs. Similarly after the event has occurred the content discovery module can be configured to weight the events less and less as proximity to the timing of the event increases. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module is configured to weight the accounts based on a mathematical function of the proximity to the timing of the event. In one example the content discovery module is configured to use the following function W 1 N 1 p for 0

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on recency. Recency of a message can refer to a length of time that has elapsed since the message was broadcasted by the messaging platform . Recency of an account can refer to a length of time since the last message authored by the account was broadcasted by the messaging platform a length of time since a user of the account last logged in to the account a length of time since a user of the account viewed predefined content from the messaging platform a number of logins of the account within a predefined elapsed time period e.g. the prior month and or any other metric or combination of metrics for measuring recent activity associated with the account. The content discovery module can be configured to weight more recent accounts messages more than less recent accounts messages. For example the weighting can be a linear logarithmic exponential or other function of the recency of an account.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on identifying one or more events. The content discovery module can be configured to determine a relevance between the accounts and a predefined set of events. Accounts having a relevance e.g. a relevance score that exceeds a predefined threshold can be flagged as being relevant to the corresponding event. The content discovery module can then determine a timing of the event s and positively weight the relevant accounts during a predefined time period before and or after the timing of the event s .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on one or more interests of the context account and or initial accounts. The content discovery module can identify interests of accounts e.g. a set of topics in which a user of the account is deemed to be interested in based on messages composed by the account engagement with other messages broadcasted by the messaging platform other accounts connected to the account in the connection graph and the relationship type of those connections e.g. subscription fan follower friend a history of visited websites of the account and any other criteria for determining interest in accordance with various embodiments. After identifying the interests of the initial accounts and the context account the content discovery module can be configured to determine a set of accounts most closely matching the interests of the context account. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module is configured to determine a score indicating an interest alignment between each initial account and the context account. The content discovery module can then positively weight all initial accounts having a score that exceeds a given threshold by a predefined amount.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on search history. The content discovery module can be configured to compare the search histories of each initial account with a search history of the context account. Any other criteria for aligning search history can be used in accordance with various embodiments. For example the content discovery module can calculate a score representing an alignment of the search histories of two accounts. The content discovery module can positively weight all initial accounts having a score that exceeds a given threshold by a predefined amount.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on a type of device. For example a feature phone device with limited functionality can be weighted less than a smart phone device with greater functionality e.g. Internet access mobile applications etc. . In another example initial accounts associated with devices that are similar to a device used by a user of the context account can be weighted more heavily. In other words the content discovery module can weight accounts having greater device related commonality with the context account more heavily than those having less device related commonality.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on relevance to identified content. Identified content can include messages associated with the context account and or messages associated with the initial accounts. For example the content discovery module can be configured to identify messages engaged with authored by and or viewed by the context account and to determine relevance between those messages and one or more initial accounts. The content discovery module can be configured to use natural language processing in order to calculate a score depicting the relevance based on message content profile content and or engagement content of the initial accounts.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on visited websites. The visited websites can be for example websites visited by a user of the context account and can be identified from a list of uniform resource locators URLs or similar set of references. The content discovery module can be configured to weight each of the initial accounts based on a similarity or relevance to the visited websites. Thus for example a URL listed on each account s profile page can be compared to the visited websites to determine the relevance. Other attributes of the initial accounts can also be used to determine the relevance such as one or more predefined categories topics associated with the accounts.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on geographic location. A geographic location associated with one or more of the initial accounts can be identified. For example geo tagging data obtained from user generated content posted by the account can be used to determine the geographic location. Language and or locale can also be mapped to predefined geographic locations which the content discovery module can use for weighting the initial accounts. The geographic location s can then be compared to a geographic location of the context account to determine a relevance or proximity value. The content discovery module can be configured to weight initial accounts such that accounts having greater proximity are weighted less than accounts having lesser proximity from a geographic location associated with the context account.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on social proximity. Social proximity can refer to a distance between two or more accounts within the connection graph. For example the content discovery module can calculate a social proximity between one or more of initial accounts and the context account. In another example the content discovery module is configured to identify accounts engaging with content generated by the initial accounts and to calculate a social proximity between the engaging accounts and the context account. When comparing multiple accounts with the context account the social proximity can be a number representing a mean median or other representative distance in the connection graph. The content discovery module can be configured to weight accounts associated with lower social proximity values more heavily than accounts associated with higher social proximity values.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to identify one or more graph based relationships between the context account and one or more initial accounts. The graph based relationships can include but are not limited to connection types in common shortest distance common followers followees friends etc. engagement level with other accounts and any other type of association between two accounts in a connection graph.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on affinity with one or more connecting accounts e.g. a context account . The content discovery module may be configured to use one or more of the graph based relationships between a context account and one or more initial accounts to determine the affinity. A relationship can be any association or attribute of two or more accounts. For example the content discovery module can be configured to identify a path in the connection graph between the context account and an initial account. Based on a number of edges in the path and or based on any number of shared attributes between the two accounts the content discovery module can be configured to calculate an affinity score representing an affinity of the context account to the initial account. Affinity can refer for example to a numerical or other value representing one or more relationships between two accounts and or one or more attributes shared between two accounts. Thus for a first account A following or otherwise connected to a second account B affinity can be calculated as a number of times within a predefined time period that account A has engaged with content produced by account B. In another example the affinity value of a given account A relative to a connected account B can be calculated as a number of common followed accounts e.g. accounts followed by both account A and account B . Many other methods formulas values can be used to calculate affinity in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. The content discovery module can be configured to weight the initial accounts based on the calculated affinity e.g. ranking the accounts in order of their affinity scores weighting the accounts based on their affinity scores etc. .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial accounts based on language and or locale. Accounts having a common locale language with the context account can be weighted more heavily than accounts having different locales languages.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to select one or more initial messages authored by and or otherwise associated with the set of relevant accounts. Messages like accounts can also be weighted scored ranked and or selected based on any number of weighting criteria. The selection of accounts and messages can be performed serially and or in parallel according to various embodiments. In a first example the content discovery module first selects a predefined number of accounts and then selects messages from those accounts. Thus the content discovery module can be configured to identify a result set of accounts and or a result set of messages based on different weighting criteria. Furthermore in one or more embodiments the content discovery module can be configured to select a maximum number of messages from each of the identified accounts such that the result set of messages is not monopolized by a single account. For example the content discovery module can be configured to select X number of accounts and then the most recent Y number of initial messages posted by each of the X accounts. Among the Y initial messages the content discovery module can then select a subset of the messages by ranking and selecting the messages according to the weighting criteria disclosed herein and optionally further limited by the maximum number of selected messages per account . The initial messages can include only messages authored by the set of relevant authors messages authored or rebroadcasted by the set of relevant authors and or messages otherwise associated with the set of relevant authors in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on recency e.g. recency of posting to the messaging platform . More recent messages can be weighted more heavily than less recent messages according to preselected weighting amount s criteria.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on popularity. Popularity can refer to popularity of the authoring account of the message popularity of the message itself e.g. based on views engagement shares of the message and etc. and or any combination thereof. More popular messages can be weighted more heavily than less popular messages according to preselected weighting amount s criteria.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on engagement. Examples of message related engagement includes but are not limited to a number of favorites replies views shares in message interaction e.g. playback and any other relevant metric for quantifying engagement associated with a message. The content discovery module can be configured to weight messages with higher engagement more heavily than messages with lower engagement according to preselected weighting amount s criteria.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on embedded message metadata. For example message metadata can include information associated with the message such as user interface selections embedded code conversation information e.g. reference s to a parent child message or other component of a conversation tree and any other metadata associated with a message. Thus messages within a popular conversation can be weighted more heavily than other messages. Message related metadata can also include metadata included in one or more external locations such as metadata from an external web page. The content discovery module can be configured to aggregate this metadata and to weight the messages according to the aggregated data. For example messages referenced from a large number e.g. a threshold number of spam or adult content related websites can be negatively weighted by the content discovery module .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on trends. A trend can be any indication of an increase in activity associated with content in the messaging platform . Topics keywords hashtags usernames images video and or any other content can be analyzed for trends. For example a baseline activity amount can first be calculated identified. The baseline can represent any historical amount of the activity for purposes of comparison . A current activity amount representing current or more recent activity than the baseline can then be calculated and compared to the baseline amount. If the current activity amount exceeds the baseline by at least a predefined threshold percentage or amount the content discovery module can be configured to designate the content as trending. Thus the content discovery module can be configured to positively weight messages including trending content and or negatively weight messages including negatively trending content where negatively trending content indicates a decrease in activity associated with the content .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on spam criteria. Messages can be assigned a spam score reflecting a likelihood of the message being associated with spam. The content discovery module can be configured to weight the initial messages according to their spam score such that the messages having a higher spam score i.e. messages more likely to be associated with spam are weighted more than messages having a lower spam score i.e. messages less likely to be associated with spam .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on engagement. Various different engagement criteria can be used. For example the content discovery module can be configured to calculate a ratio of positive interaction e.g. likes favorites etc. to comments a ratio of engagement to average engagement for the authoring account and or any other engagement metric usable in weighting selecting ranking messages for presentation to a user. Messages with a higher ratio of positive interaction to comments can be weighted more heavily than messages with a lower ratio of positive interaction to comments. Similarly messages with a higher ratio of engagement to average engagement for the authoring account can be weighted more heavily than those with a lower ratio of engagement to average engagement.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on engagement velocity. Engagement velocity is a numerical value representing a rate or amount of change of one or more engagement metrics e.g. likes favorites views comments etc. . The content discovery module can calculate or identify one or more engagement velocities associated with the message and then weight the message according to the engagement velocities. For example for positive engagement metrics e.g. likes favorites new followers friends etc. the message can be positively weighted proportional to the engagement velocity and for negative engagement metrics e.g. spam reports blocks of the message authoring account unfollows unfriends the message can be negatively weighted proportional to the engagement velocity.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on trending accounts. A trending account can be any account associated with a spike in activity engagement and or a high level of activity engagement. Examples of trending accounts can include but are not limited to accounts having a number of mentions exceeding a predefined amount or percentage increase accounts having an aggregate engagement by other users exceeding a predefined amount or percentage across multiple messages authored by the account and any other measure of recent activity engagement associated with the account. The content discovery module can be configured to determine whether the authoring account of a message is trending and to positively weight the message proportional to a numerical value representing the strength of the trend or by a predefined amount percentage .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on promoted content. For example if the message is a promoted message the content discovery module can be configured to weight the message positively in one or more predefined promoted geographic regions advertising spaces.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on cashtags finance related symbols e.g. stock ticker symbols prefixed by a character . For example the content discovery module can be configured to detect a cashtag in a message and to identify stock exchange associated with the cashtag. The content discovery module can determine trading hours of the stock exchange and then weight the message positively during those trading hours. Other cashtags can be weighted by varying amounts depending on the finance related hours identified e.g. business hours temporal proximity to an earnings call temporal proximity to a related event etc. .

More generally in one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on a time. Thus messages including positive content associated with a time can be weighted positively by the content discovery module and messages including negative content associated with a time can be weighted negatively by the content discovery module . For example positive content can include a hashtag associated with an event that has occurred or will occur within a threshold temporal proximity e.g. within a 1 hour window of the event . In another example negative content can include a hashtag associated with over represented content e.g. an over represented event or account within a threshold temporal proximity of an associated event e.g. within a 1 hour window of a concert election etc. .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on events. For example the content discovery module can be configured to identify event related data such as timing of an event description of an event people associated with an event e.g. an artist performing at a concert an account of the messaging platform associated with a relevant person e.g. an artist account a location of an event and or any other data related to an event. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module is configured to positively weight accounts and or messages relevant to commonalities between the event data and a set of user data e.g. a user s location interests profile information connected accounts etc. . In another embodiment the content discovery module is configured to positively weight accounts and or messages relevant to commonalities between the event data and global data e.g. temporal data such as current date time trending topics news keywords etc. .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on interest. The content discovery module can be configured to receive a list of interest definitions for an account or can be configured to determine one or more interests of the account based on content posted authored by the account engagement with content posted by other accounts lists of accounts commonly associated with a predefined or user defined category and any other set of data. The content discovery module can analyze these different data sets to determine commonly occurring topics and or associations and can then classify those topics and or associations as interests of the context account.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on relevance to search history of the context account. The content discovery module can be configured to perform an analysis of searched terms and phrases of the context account and to positively weight initial messages relevant to those terms phrases by a predefined amount percentage. The content discovery module may employ any number of methods of natural language processing search methods and or semantic analysis already known in the art to identify relevance matching between the initial messages and the search history of the context account. The content discovery module can be configured to then weight the initial message s according to their relevance.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on message content. Message content can be matched compared to content associated with the context account in order to determine a relevancy. The content discovery module can then weight the initial messages according to the calculated relevancy.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on relevance to profile content of the context account. Profile content can include any information associated with a user s profile including but not limited to biographical data gender location moods interests topics groups organizations employment educational history and or any other relevant information. In one or more embodiments the profile content can be compared to one or more initial messages in order to determine a relevancy and the content discovery module can be configured to weight the initial messages according to the calculated relevancy.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on relevance to visited websites of the context account. The content discovery module can be configured to receive a set of identifiers e.g. uniform resource locators URLs identifying websites e.g. either top level domains or individual web pages visited by the context account or a user associated with the context account. The content discovery module can then identify or calculate a relevance between each initial message and 1 the set of visited websites and or 2 each of the individual websites among the set. The content discovery module can be configured to positively weight the initial messages according to the calculated relevance. For example the content discovery module can increase the weight of each initial message having a relevance exceeding a threshold by a predefined amount. In this example the content discovery module can further assign different predefined positive weights to the initial messages according to a recency of one or more visits to the relevant website.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on uniform resource locator URL metadata. Examples of URL metadata can include but are not limited to domain quality page title page snippet page image and or any other information associated with a URL. The content discovery module can be configured to obtain the URL metadata from the website referenced by a URL and or from a third party data source. The URL associated with the URL metadata can be for example a URL included within the message a URL identified in a set of websites visited by the context account and or any URL usable in determining content relevancy. The content discovery module can be configured to use URL metadata to determine relevance to one or more of the initial messages e.g. based on page title metadata tags etc. and or other criteria usable in weighting the initial messages e.g. a domain quality score .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on a mature content rating. One or more of the messages can be assigned a mature content rating. The mature content rating can indicate that the message includes mature content or can represent a probability of the message including mature content. The content discovery module can be configured to exclude initial messages having mature content or a high probability of mature content from the result set based for example on preferences of the context account e.g. a mature content filter setting .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on geographic location. The content discovery module can be configured to identify location information associated with each message. The location information can be identified based on geotagged content associated with a message location information associated with an authoring account of the message or any other data indicating a location associated with the message. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module identifies location information associated with the context account and performs a comparison of the location information of the context account with location information associated with the messages. The content discovery module can be configured to rank the initial messages according to their proximity to the location of the context account e.g. by calculating a proximity score representing a proximity to the location of the context account . The content discovery module can then weight the initial messages according to their proximity to the context account such that messages with a lower proximity are more likely to appear in the result set than those with a higher proximity.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to weight the initial messages based on language. Initially the content discovery module can be configured to determine or identify a language or primary language associated with the context account. The content discovery module can then identify a language associated with each of the initial messages e.g. by detecting a language of the message text or by obtaining a language of the authoring account and then compare that language with the language of the context account. In one or more embodiments the content discovery module is configured to positively weight those initial messages having a language that matches the language of the context account and or negatively weight initial messages having a language that differs from the language of the context account.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to perform query dependent and or query independent content discovery. Thus for example the content discovery module can be configured to pre select relevant content according to a periodic time schedule. Furthermore in one or more embodiments query independent content discovery can be based on the activity level of each account e.g. average number of logins per time period average amount of engagement per time period average number of clicks per time period number of views per month etc. . For example the content discovery module can be configured to identify and store relevant content query independently for active accounts. In this example the content discovery module identifies any account having more than 1 average login per week as an active account. Continuing the example the content discovery module identifies and stores discovered content in the discovery repository for the active accounts periodically. The content discovery module can then perform query dependent content discovery for all non active accounts e.g. content discovery can be performed in response to a request for relevant content .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the discovery repository includes functionality to store discovery content e.g. identified accounts messages multimedia metadata etc. . The discovery repository can be implemented as a component of the messaging platform as shown in and or can include one or more client side components e.g. on the client in accordance with various embodiments. In one or more embodiments some or all discovery content is cached on the client and is updated periodically and or on demand. For example a set of identifiers of relevant accounts and or messages can be stored the client and updated periodically. The content discovery module can for example identify accounts based on relevance to a context account e.g. an account registered to a user of the mobile device and can provide identifiers of the accounts to the client for storage update on the client . Continuing the example the client can then request discovery content for display to the user either on demand or periodically.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to receive a request for content. The request can be for any type of content and can include or be associated with an identifier of a context account e.g. the requesting account . For example a client can request messages of a messaging platform that may be interesting and or relevant to a user of the messaging platform. These may include messages outside of the user s immediate connections within a connection graph. In this way user s can be exposed to content irrespective of proximity in the connection graph although the connection graph can be used as a signal to increase relevance . The content discovery module can be configured to identify initial messages and then weight the messages according to any number of predefined criteria in order to select a result set of messages for presentation to the user. Alternatively or concurrently the content discovery module can be configured to identify initial accounts of the messaging platform and to weight the accounts according to any number of predefined criteria in order to select a result set of accounts. The content discovery module can then select one or more messages from account in the result set for presentation to the user and or can present information associated with one or more accounts from the result set to the user e.g. a profile page of the account .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to identify relevant content based on messages and or accounts of the messaging platform . In one or more embodiments the content discovery module can be configured to identify a content type e.g. uniform resource locators URLs images news URLs hashtags search terms advertisements etc for recommendation to a user by using the processes described above with regard to initial accounts messages and or the processes described with regard to below modified to select only messages including the content type. In one example a user enters one or more search terms into a client application. In this example the content discovery module performs the process of described below modified to select only messages including the terms entered by the user. The content discovery module returns a result set which is displayed to the user in the client application. The client application can further be configured to receive data associated with accounts messages and or content. For example the client application may receive engagement data associated with each identified message e.g. a number of times a message has been shared favorited liked viewed etc. and or relevant account. The client application can be configured to display an indication of the associated data with the relevant content message s and or account s in a user interface. In this way any data used to identify relevant accounts messages and or content can be displayed to the end user by the client device. This associated data can include for example any of aforementioned weighting criteria or inputs associated with weighting criteria in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. See for example indication and of .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module includes functionality to provide the messages accounts URLs images and or associated content in response to a content request.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the routing module includes functionality to receive one or more messages and to store the messages in the message repository . The routing module can be configured to assign an identifier to the message and to notify the graph fanout module of a sender of the message.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the graph fanout module includes functionality to retrieve graph data from the connection graph repository and to use the graph data to determine which accounts in the messaging platform should receive the message. The graph data for example can reflect which accounts in the messaging platform are following a particular account and are therefore subscribed to receive status messages from the particular account.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the delivery module includes functionality to receive a list of accounts from the graph fanout module and the message identifier generated by the routing module and to insert the message identifier into stream data associated with each identified account. The delivery module can then store the message list in the stream repository . The stream data stored in the stream repository can make up one or more streams associated with one or more accounts of the messaging platform . A stream may be a dynamic list of messages associated with one or more accounts or can reflect any arbitrary organization of messages that is advantageous for the user of an account.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module is a software application or a set of related software applications configured to execute on one or more hardware processors. The content discovery module can include one or more reader threads configured to perform multiple concurrent searches analysis of data in one or more repositories e.g. of the messaging platform. The content discovery module can be a component of a service oriented architecture SOA or any other software platform either inside or outside of the messaging platform in accordance with various embodiments. In one or more embodiments of the invention one or more components of the content discovery module reside in a cloud computing application in a network distributed system. In one or more embodiments of the invention content discovery module is integrated within or operatively connected to one or more other components of the messaging platform .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module is configured to perform query independent functionality associated with content discovery. The query independent functionality described herein can be performed periodically or upon ingesting one or more messages for broadcasting by the messaging platform . In one or more embodiments of the invention the content discovery module is configured to perform query dependent functionality associated with content discovery.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the frontend module is a software application or a set of related software applications configured to communicate with external entities e.g. client . The frontend module can include the application programming interface API and or any number of other components used for communicating with entities outside of the messaging platform . The API can include any number of specifications for making requests from and or providing data to the messaging platform . For example a function provided by the API can provide artist song recommendations to a requesting client .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the frontend module is configured to use one or more of the data repositories message repository connection graph repository stream repository discovery repository and or account repository to define streams for serving messages i.e. stream data to a user of the account on the messaging platform . A user can use any client to receive the messages. For example where the user uses a web based client to access the messaging platform an API of the frontend module can be utilized to define one or more streams and or to serve the stream data to the client for presentation to the user. Similarly different forms of message delivery can be handled by different modules in the frontend module . In one or more embodiments of the invention the user can specify particular receipt preferences which are implemented by the frontend module .

In one or more embodiments of the invention one or more of the data repositories message repository connection graph repository stream repository account repository discovery repository is a database and or storage service residing on one or more servers. For example one or more of the data repositories may be implemented as a storage service using service oriented architecture SOA and configured to receive requests for data and to provide requested data to other components of the messaging platform . In another example the message repository can include one or more tables in a distributed database management system DBMS a clustered database a standalone flat file and or any storage software residing on one or more physical storage devices. Examples of a storage device may include but are not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive and or other memory device. Any type of database or storage application can be used in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

In one or more embodiments of the invention one or more of the data repositories message repository connection graph repository stream repository account repository discovery repository is a separate application or set of applications residing on one or more servers external and communicatively coupled to the messaging platform . Alternatively in one or more embodiments of the invention one or more of the data repositories can be an integrated component of the messaging platform and or can reside either partially or entirely on one or more common hardware devices e.g. a server .

The steps of can be performed by a content discovery module e.g. content discovery module of discussed above . For example the steps of can be used to identify candidate accounts rank weight the accounts according to one or more criteria select a result set of the ranked weighted accounts and or to provide relevant content e.g. messages authored by the accounts to a client. In another example the steps of can be used in conjunction with or independent of the steps of to weight one or more initial accounts by scoring each account and weighting the scores according to one or more criteria. Steps of can be performed serially in parallel and or in combination for any number of initial accounts in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Thus for example a content discovery module can be configured to calculate affinity scores and or accounts scores for multiple accounts concurrently. Furthermore in one or more embodiments of the invention messages authored or otherwise associated with one or more accounts can be scored ranked and or otherwise selected for display by a client device concurrently with the steps of and or B.

In one or more embodiments of the invention one or more steps of the flowcharts are repeated concurrently by multiple threads. Thus one or more of the steps can be performed serially in parallel and or by a distributed system in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. For example selecting weighting ranking accounts can be performed concurrently with selecting weighting ranking messages. In this example while a first thread e.g. a thread of a content discovery module identifies and ranks accounts a second thread can be configured to weight messages from the identified accounts to select a result set of messages from each account. In one or more embodiments of the invention the steps of and or B can be re performed on newly broadcasted messages after a predefined time period has elapsed since receiving a request for content. Thus for example a first request for content can be received from a client and a response can be generated using the method s of and or B. After a predefined time period has elapsed the method s of and or B can be performed again this time only identifying messages newly broadcasted since the last request. In this way new discovery content can be automatically calculated identified by a server application e.g. a content discovery module without an explicit request from the client. The server application can then send the client a set of newly identified messages content and or an indication of newly identified messages content e.g. a number of newly identified messages . If an indication is sent to the client the client can be configured to notify a user of the newly identified messages and to receive a request from the user to obtain the new messages from the server application and to display them in the web browser.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes one or more processor s such as a central processing unit CPU integrated circuit hardware processor etc. associated memory e.g. RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. a network adapter and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . One or more components of the computer system may be communicatively connected by a bus . The computer system may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer system may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other type of network via the network adapter . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. content discovery module discovery repository etc. of discussed above may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor or micro core of a processor with shared memory and or resources.

Further one or more elements of the above described systems e.g. content discovery module routing module etc. of discussed above can be implemented as software instructions in the form of computer readable program code stored temporarily or permanently on one or more non transitory computer readable storage media. The non transitory computer readable storage media are executable by one or more computer processors to perform the functionality of one or more components of the above described systems e.g. and or flowcharts e.g. in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Examples of non transitory computer readable media can include but are not limited to compact discs CDs flash memory solid state drives random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical storage and any other computer readable media excluding transitory propagating signals.

Similarly servers and generally represent computing devices or systems such as application servers or database servers configured to provide various database services and or run certain software applications e.g. functionality of content discovery module of discussed above . Network generally represents any telecommunication or computer network including for example an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a personal area network PAN or the Internet.

With reference to computer system of a communication interface such as network adapter may be used to provide connectivity between each client system and and network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server or using for example a Web browser thin client application or other client software. Such software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server server or storage devices N . Although depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data the embodiments described herein are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

In one embodiment all or a portion of one or more of the example embodiments disclosed herein are encoded as a computer program and loaded onto and executed by server server storage devices N or any combination thereof. All or a portion of one or more of the example embodiments disclosed herein may also be encoded as a computer program stored in server run by server and distributed to client systems and over network .

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered as examples because many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

While various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these example embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. These software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the example embodiments disclosed herein. One or more of the software modules disclosed herein may be implemented in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing environments may provide various services and applications via the Internet. These cloud based services e.g. software as a service platform as a service infrastructure as a service etc. may be accessible through a Web browser or other remote interface. Various functions described herein may be provided through a remote desktop environment or any other cloud based computing environment.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered as examples because many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

One or more embodiments of the invention have one or more of the following advantages. By using weighting accounts and or messages with one or more weighting criteria it may be possible to surface relevant content from a messaging platform to one or more user accounts. In this way in one or more embodiments relevant content can be suggested or provided to one or more users and can be propagated through a network of associated user accounts within a connection graph.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

