---

title: Method of removing an out-of-tolerance area in a composite structure
abstract: A method of removing an out-of-tolerance area in a composite structure may comprise determining a location of the out-of-tolerance area within the composite structure, and selecting a volume of the composite structure to be removed based on the location of the out-of-tolerance area. The method may further include programming a machine tool to remove the volume and to pause after removal of each one of a quantity of layers of the volume. The method may additionally include removing one of the layers using the machine tool.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08715434&OS=08715434&RS=08715434
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 08715434
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130730
---
The present application is a divisional application of and claims priority to pending application Ser. No. 12 693 919 filed on Jan. 26 2010 and entitled USER FACILITATED MATERIAL REMOVAL IN COMPOSITE STRUCTURES which is a continuation in part application of pending application Ser. No. 12 485 832 filed on Jun. 16 2009 and entitled AUTOMATED MATERIAL REMOVAL IN COMPOSITE STRUCTURES the entire contents of each one of the above referenced applications being expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates generally to composite structures and more particularly to a method and apparatus for removing out of tolerance areas within a composite structure in relation to restoring the composite structure.

Composite structures occasionally include localized areas in the composite structure that may not conform to product and or performance specifications for any one of a variety of reasons. For example areas of the structure may be out of tolerance because of inconsistencies such as without limitation voids dents porosities and bow waves. A bow wave may be characterized as a local distortion or ripple in one or more plies of a composite structure and may occur during the process of manufacturing or curing of the composite structure.

Such localized areas of composite structures may be reworked in order to reduce or eliminate non conformities and thereby restore the structure. The rework process may include removing material from the structure and then replacing the removed material with a composite patch that may be bonded to the structure. During the material removal process the edges of the rework area may be tapered scarfed or formed in any one of a variety of alternative configurations in order to form a scarf joint a step lap joint or any alternative joint configuration between the structure and the bonded patch.

The above described rework process may require manual removal of the material by a skilled technician using a handheld grinder or similar tool. The manual removal of composite material may be labor intensive. Furthermore the accuracy with which the composite material may be removed may be dependant upon the expertise of the technician. In this regard the consistency of the rework of composite structures may vary.

Accordingly there is a need for a method and apparatus for reworking or restoring composite structures in which the localized removal of material to eliminate out of tolerance areas is rapid accurate and predictable while minimizing manual effort.

The disclosed embodiments provide a method and apparatus for reworking and or restoring out of tolerance areas of composite structures in which material is removed from the structure by a user facilitated process in order to provide consistent predictable and accurate results. A machine head operated in a user facilitated manner by a programmable numerical controller may include a video camera to allow for video scanning of the structure in order to locate out of tolerance areas. The machine head may remove material from the structure based upon the location of additional out of tolerance areas revealed by the video scan.

A cutting tool on the machine head may remove the material from the structure and form a scarf in the structure surrounding the area being reworked. The scarf may facilitate the formation of a scarf joint between the structure and a repair patch that may be bonded to the scarf joint to restore the structure. The steps of removing a user defined quantity of layers of material pausing after removal of the removal of each one of the layers video scanning the area uncovered by the removal of the layer to locate additional out of tolerance areas and editing the tool path of the machine head such that the volume of material for removal includes the additional out of tolerance area may be iteratively performed to eliminate multiple out of tolerance areas in the structure.

In an embodiment a method of removing at least one out of tolerance area in a composite structure comprises the steps of determining the location of the out of tolerance area within the structure. A volume may be selected for removal from the composite structure based on the location of the out of tolerance area in the composite structure. The method may include the use of a machine tool which may be programmed to remove the volume and to pause after removal of each one of a quantity of layers of the volume. The method may further include removing one of the layers using the programmed machine tool.

In a further embodiment disclosed is a method of restoring a composite structure having at least one out of tolerance area. The method may comprise the steps of locating the boundaries of the out of tolerance area within the structure and calculating a volume of material for removal from the composite structure based upon the boundaries. A tool path may be calculated for guiding a machine tool for removal of the volume. A quantity of layers may be selected for the volume to allow for pausing of the machine tool following removal of each one of the layers. A controller may be programmed with the calculated tool path and the quantity of layers of the volume. The method may include removing one of the layers using the machine tool and pausing the machine tool after removal of the layer.

The area of the composite structure uncovered by the removal of the layer may be scanned such as with a video camera to locate the boundaries of an additional out of tolerance area. The controller programming may be edited such that the volume of material for removal includes the additional out of tolerance area. The above mentioned steps of removing one of the layers pausing the machine tool scanning the area of the composite structure uncovered by the removal of the layer and editing the controller programming may be iteratively performed until the volume of material is removed. The volume of the composite structure removed by the machine tool may then be replaced.

Also disclosed is a method of restoring a composite airframe containing at least one out of tolerance area. The method may comprise mounting a machine tool on the airframe and locating the boundaries of the out of tolerance area in the airframe. A set of data defining the airframe geometry may be retrieved for use in calculating a volume of material of the airframe to be removed based on the boundaries of the out of tolerance area and the airframe geometry. A quantity of layers of the volume may be selected for which the machine tool may be paused following removal of each one of the layers. The controller may be programmed with a tool path and the quantity of layers. The method may include removing one of the layers using the machine tool pausing the machine tool after removal of the layer and scanning the area of the airframe uncovered by the removal of the layer to determine the existence of an additional out of tolerance area.

The above mentioned methods may be performed using a machine tool configured for removing at least one out of tolerance area in a composite structure. The machine tool may comprise a machine head movable along at least one axis over the composite structure and at least one of a video camera and a non destructive inspection NDI scanner mounted to the machine head for scanning the composite structure and locating the out of tolerance area. The machine tool may further comprise a cutting tool mounted to the machine head and which may be movable along a tool path for removing a volume containing the out of tolerance area. A controller may also be included and may be programmable with a quantity of layers of the volume for which the cutting tool may be paused following removal of each one of the layers. The machine tool may additionally comprise a user interface coupled with the computer for editing the tool path and or the quantity of layers of the volume.

In a further embodiment the machine tool may be configured to remove a plurality of out of tolerance area in a multi ply composite structure. The machine tool may comprise a frame configured to be placed on the composite structure and a machine head mounted to the frame movable along at least one axis over the composite structure. A video camera and or a non destructive inspection NDI scanner may be mounted to the machine head for scanning the composite structure and locating the out of tolerance area. The machine tool may additionally comprise a cutting tool mounted to the machine head for removing a volume containing the out of tolerance area.

A computer may be included for calculating a volume and generating a tool path for the machine tool. A controller may be coupled with the computer for controlling the movement of the machine head and the operation of the cutting tool. The controller may be programmable with a quantity of layers of the volume for which the machine tool is paused following removal of each one of the layers. The machine tool may include a user interface coupled with the computer for editing the tool path and or the quantity of layers of the volume. A display may be coupled to the user interface for viewing an image of the volume of the composite structure to be removed and or for viewing video feed from the video camera of the area uncovered by the removal of the layer.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed can be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present disclosure or may be combined in yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings below.

An out of tolerance area may comprise for example and without limitation any one of numerous types of inconsistencies including a void a dent a ply separation a delamination thermal degradation a ply wrinkle a disbond porosity or a bow wave that may occur at the time the composite structure is manufactured or later during the service life of the composite structure. In the bow wave is illustrated as being located adjacent to an edge of the flange of the stringer although the bow wave may be formed at any location in the composite structure .

In accordance with the disclosed embodiments one or more volumes of material may be removed from the composite structure that are respectively inclusive of out of tolerance areas in order to eliminate or reduce the size of the out of tolerance areas . For example the bow wave illustrated in may be included in the out of tolerance area . In this regard the bow wave may be formed as a ripple or wave in one or more of the plies of the composite structure . The out of tolerance areas may be removed from the composite structure by respectively removing the volumes of material from the composite structure . Each one of the volumes may have an outline or periphery that may be of any one of a variety of geometries including but not limited to round and oval shapes.

Referring now also to the volume of material shown in comprises the final volume of material. The volume of material may be removed in a manner so as to form a final scarf that may be tapered or inclined at a pre selected scarf angle . In this regard the volume of material shown in may comprise the final volume of material that is removed from the composite structure to eliminate or reduce the size of the out of tolerance areas . As shown in a composite patch may be bonded to the composite structure and may comprise without limitation multiple plies of composite material. The composite patch preferably fills the volume of material removed from the composite structure . As shown in the peripheral edges of the composite patch may include a scarf that may substantially match the final scarf angle of the final volume so as to form a bonded scarf joint between the composite patch and the composite structure .

While a final scarf as shown in may be desirable for many applications it may also be possible to remove the final volume of material from the composite structure so as to form a series of peripheral step laps as shown in in which the height of each step lap substantially matches the thickness of a corresponding ply . The peripheral step laps shown in may substantially match a series of similar step laps not shown formed on a patch not shown to form a step lap joint not shown between the patch and the composite structure .

Similarly as shown in material may be removed from the composite structure during the restoration process so as so form a series of substantially contiguous scarfs respectively having differing scarf angles . The multiple scarfs formed during removal of the final volume of material from the composite structure may match corresponding scarfs not shown formed on the composite patch .

Attention is now directed to which broadly illustrates a methodology of restoring a composite structure . The methodology facilitates user intervention of a generally automated process of removal of one or more out of tolerance areas in the composite structure using a machine tool which may be mounted to the composite structure . For example the methodology facilitates user modification of the automated process wherein the process may be programmed to pause at predetermined intervals during removal of one or more of the volumes such that the user may visually observe the areas of the composite structure uncovered during the removal process. In this manner the user may identify additional out of tolerance areas in the composite structure such as bow waves that may be undetectable during an initial scanning of the composite structure and or may not be included in a design representation e.g. a ply stacking sequence of the composite structure. Upon visual observation of an additional out of tolerance area the user may modify the automated removal process such that the additional out of tolerance area is included in one or more of the volumes to be removed.

Referring still to step may comprise scanning the surface of the structure using the machine tool to facilitate machine to structure alignment using a device such as a triangulation line scan laser not shown or touch probe to measure distance. Alternatively a laser tracker not shown or a laser positioning system not shown may be used to locate the machine tool relative to the structure in a known x y z coordinate system not shown . For example the machine tool may be aligned using a coordinate system of an aircraft of which the structure may form a part such that when the machine tool is located on the composite structure a geometry database may be used to identify the geometry of the composite structure. After multiple points on the surface are measured the information may be stored and used to calculate the alignment of the machine tool with the composite structure.

Referring still to step may comprise internally scanning the composite structure to locate the boundaries of one or more out of tolerance areas which may require removal as part of the restoration process. As will be discussed below in greater detail the scanning process may be carried out using any one of a variety of nondestructive inspection NDI techniques including without limitation ultrasonic inspection.

At step an initial volume of material within the structure may be selected based upon the location of the out of tolerance area identified during the scanning step . In the example illustrated in the out of tolerance areas identified during the initial scanning process may be limited to the out of tolerance area due to obscuring of the out of tolerance area by the overlying out of tolerance area . In this regard the out of tolerance area may not be detectable during the initial scanning step . In a similar manner out of tolerance area comprising the bow wave may be undetectable using NDI techniques or other inspection technique. Thus the initial volume of material removed from the structure may be limited to layer which may contain the out of tolerance area .

At step of the method may further comprise selecting a quantity of layers into which the volume to be removed may be divided. In this regard the selection of the quantity of the layers determines the frequency at which the machine tool pauses during removal of a volume of material. For example the volume of material to be removed may comprise a total of twenty 20 plies and which may be divided into five 5 layers such that each layer contains four 4 plies. The machine tool may be programmed to pause after removal of each one of the layers i.e. after removal of each set of four 4 plies to allow the user of the machine tool to visually observe the area uncovered by the removal of the layer to identify additional out of tolerance areas previously undetected prior to removal of the next layer e.g. removal of the next set of four plies .

Referring still to at step the process of programming the machine tool may further include calculating a tool path not shown that may be followed by a material removal tool not shown which may be mounted to the machine tool. For example the material removal tool may comprise without limitation a mill or other cutting tool not shown that may be controlled by a suitable controller such as a computer numerical controller CNC as described in greater detail below. Following the calculation of the tool path in step of the machine tool may initiate the removal of the volume of material at step by removing one of the layers. As the layer of the volume of material is being removed at step an initial scarf may be formed which may have a scarf angle that may be the same or different than a final scarf angle .

Referring still to upon removal of the layer of the volume of material the machine tool may pause at step and the area uncovered by the removal of the layer may be scanned in order to locate the boundaries of any additional out of tolerance areas that may exist under the newly exposed surface of the structure . In the illustration of the scanning step may result in the location of the boundaries of the out of tolerance area which may reside within layer of material located beneath the removed layer containing the out of tolerance area . At step the machine tool may be reprogrammed to remove an additional volume of material which may includes layer . The steps of removing one of the layers using the machine tool pausing the machine tool after removal of the layer and scanning the area of the structure uncovered by the removal of the layer may be repeated until no additional out of tolerance areas are identified during the internal scanning of the structure.

Following the identification and removal of all of the out of tolerance areas the final scarf may be formed at step such that the scarf is formed with the desired final scarf angle . At step the material that has been removed from the structure may be replaced by an integrated patch . If desired the restored structure may be rescanned at step in order to verify the desirability of the completed rework or restoration.

The NDI scanner may comprise any of a variety of devices using known technologies to essentially map internal areas of the structure. For example and without limitation the scanner may employ high and low frequency ultrasound including pulse echo ultrasonic techniques ultrasonic resonance infrared thermography laser shearography backscatter X ray electro magnetic sensing and terahertz sensing technology. The video camera may comprise a solid state video camera or similar optical recording array for viewing and recording images of the material being removed by the router . However the camera may be configured in any one of a variety of technologies for recording images of the composite structure and which may be fed to a display for viewing by an operator of the machine tool or other user to facilitate editing of the programming of the machine tool during the restoration process.

Referring still to movement of the machine head over the surface of the composite structure as well as operation of the scanner router and video camera may be controlled by a CNC computer numerically controlled controller although a controller of any suitable configuration may be used. Information generated by the scanner may be delivered to the computer which may be used to program the CNC controller to remove the material such as on a layer by layer basis. Images recorded by the video camera of the area uncovered by the removal of each layer may be fed to the display for observation by the user. The user may analyze the images to determine whether to revise the quantity of layers that make up the volume. In this regard the user may increase the quantity of layers into which the volume is divided in order to reduce the quantity of plies that are removed with the removal of each layer. Conversely the user may decrease the quantity of layers into which the volume is divided in order to increase the quantity of plies that are removed with the removal of each layer.

As illustrated in the computer may be controlled by one or more software programs and may have access to one or more geometry databases which may contain information defining the geometry and ply make up of one or more composite structures that may be restored or reworked. The computer may also be coupled with a computer automated manufacturing system CAM which may interface with the computer via an application programming interface API or any other suitable interface. A user interface may be provided which may include an input output I O device and the display in order to allow a user to view and edit information developed by the computer for programming the CNC controller . The computer may be provided with data storage to allow for storage and retrieval of archival data related to past restorations or reworks performed on various composite structures.

Referring still to a machine tool drive which may comprise pneumatic hydraulic electric or other motor configuration may be mounted on the machine head and may include a cutting tool . The cutting tool may comprise a mill router or other suitable cutting tool . In an embodiment the cutting tool may be both rotated via a spindle and vertically displaced i.e. in an axial direction by the drive head to facilitate removal of material from the composite structure . A laser displacement sensor or other suitable distance measuring device as indicated above may be provided to measure the distance between the machine tool and the surface of the structure although the distance measuring device may be provided in a variety of configurations. After measuring the distance from the machine tool to one or more points or locations on the surface the information may be stored and used to calculate alignment of the machine tool with the composite structure.

As shown in the laser displacement sensor may be mounted on the machine head and may direct a laser beam onto the surface of the composite structure in order to develop depth of cut and machine to part orientation information that may be used in controlling the drive head . An ultrasonic sensor having a spring loaded riding dribbler head may be mounted on the machine head by means of a retractable sensor mount . The dribbler head of the ultrasonic sensor may be displaced downwardly into contact with the surface of the composite structure in order to internally scan the composite structure to locate the boundaries of out of tolerance areas . The video camera may be mounted on the machine head and may be oriented to view the area of the cutting tool for periodically or continuously recording images not shown of the material being removed. Such images may be displayed in real time to a user such as on the user display and or may be used by the computer to control the operation of the machine head including control of the cutting tool

Referring now to shown are a series of diagrammatic illustrations of a method of restoring a composite structure having one or more tolerance areas such as out of tolerance areas . The composite structure may be restored using the machine tool shown in .

Referring to the machine tool may be used to move the NDI scanner comprising the ultrasonic sensor with dribbler head or other NDI scanner configuration. The machine tool may move the NDI scanner along the surface of the composite structure where out of tolerance areas are suspected. The scanning process illustrated in may detect and locate the out of tolerance area and may approximate the boundaries of the out of tolerance area . As indicated above the out of tolerance area may be detectable using NDI inspection techniques such as ultrasonic inspection. The video camera may also be moved along the surface of the structure with the NDI scanner . The video camera may optionally provide a video feed to the user of the machine tool during scanning of the composite structure with the NDI scanner . The video feed may be displayed on the display for observation by the user. In this manner the display may provide additional information to the user for indications of additional out of tolerance areas during the scanning.

Referring to based on the boundaries of the out of tolerance area a volume of material may be calculated by the computer and selected for removal by the cutting tool which may include removal of the out of tolerance area . If available data regarding the geometry of the composite structure may be provided by a geometry database that may be coupled to the computer . The calculation of the volume for removal from the composite structure may be facilitated by overlaying or comparing the boundaries of the out of tolerance area onto the data defining the geometry of the composite structure . A tool path not shown for guiding the movement of the cutting tool may be calculated by the computer based upon the geometry data and may be used to program the controller of the machine tool for controlling or guiding the movement of the machine tool and machine head including movement of the cutting tool . A quantity of layers may be selected for dividing the removal of the volume of material such that the machine tool pauses following removal of each one of the layers of the volume. The controller may be programmed with the tool path and the quantity of layers of the volume. As will be described in greater detail below the video camera may be scanned over the area uncovered following the removal of the layer to facilitate visual observation of the uncovered area to identify out of tolerance areas such as bow waves that may not be detectable by NDI inspection techniques.

For example and referring to shown is an enlarged cross sectional illustration of a portion of the final volume of material for removal from the composite structure and wherein the volume is divided into a quantity of layers . In this regard the user may select a quantity of five 5 layers for the volume of material that is to be removed. If the volume comprises a total of twenty 20 plies of composite material each layer may contain four 4 plies such that the controller of the machine tool may be programmed to pause after removal of each one of the layers i.e. after removal of each set of four 4 plies . The controller of the machine tool may be programmed to cause the video camera to scan the area uncovered by the removal of the layer for visual observation by the user. Such visual observation of the may allow the user to identify additional out of tolerance areas undetected by NDI techniques. The NDI scanner e.g. ultrasonic sensor may also scan the area scanned by the video camera in order to detect additional out of tolerance areas for removal that may not be detectable due to the removed overlying material.

Referring briefly back to the machine tool may be moved along the programmed tool path not shown such that the cutting tool removes one of the layers of the volume . During removal of the volume of material the cutting tool may also form an initial scarf around the periphery of the volume of material that is being removed. Removal of the volume may reduce or eliminate the out of tolerance area . The video camera may optionally be moved along the tool path not shown as the cutting tool removes the volume and may provide video feed to the user for visual observation of the progress of the removal process.

Referring to following removal of the first one of the layers of the volume the operation of the cutting tool may be paused to allow for scanning of the area of the structure uncovered by the removal of the layer to locate the boundaries of additional out of tolerance areas such as out of tolerance area areas . In this regard the video camera may be scanned over the area of the structure uncovered by the removal of the layer. If no additional out of tolerance areas are identified the machine tool continues on the tool path to remove the next one of the layers of the volume. However the scanning of the area uncovered by the removal of the layer may result in the identification of additional out of tolerance areas at deeper levels in the structure that may have been previously undetectable by the overlying out of tolerance area . In this regard the scanning may locate the boundaries of the additional out of tolerance areas . By providing video feed to the user locations of additional out of tolerance area may be identified. Simultaneously the NDI scanner which may include the ultrasonic sensor and dribbler head may be scanned over the area of the structure uncovered by the removal of the layer to facilitate the identification of additional out of tolerance areas.

Referring still to based on the located boundaries of the additional out of tolerance areas the controller may be reprogrammed such that the volume of material for removal includes the additional out of tolerance areas. In this regard a new tool path may be programmed for the cutting tool that may result in the removal of the additional out of tolerance areas. Furthermore the machine tool programming may be edited to alter the quantity of layers of the volume. For example if it is desired to reduce the amount of material that is removed with each layer the quantity of layers may be increased for the volume. Increasing the quantity of layers reduces the quantity of plies that are removed with each layer to allow for shorter intervals between scanning of the composite structure . Conversely reducing the quantity of layers for the volume may increase the quantity of plies that are removed with each layer such that a larger amount of material may be removed with each layer . The reprogramming of the controller may optionally include the selection of a different user defined scarf angle for scarfing the edges of the layers of the volume as compared to the scarf angle selected for the layers of the volume .

In the NDI scanner and the video camera may scan the composite structure following the removal of each one of the layers of the volume to determine whether there are any further out of tolerance areas that have not been detected. For example as shown in the out of tolerance area may be visually observed as a result of the video feed provided by the video camera . The out of tolerance area may be formed as a bow wave which may be undetectable by the NDI scanner but which may be visually observable by means of the video camera .

Based on the visual observation of the out of tolerance area or bow wave shown in the controller may be re programmed with a new tool path not shown for the cutting tool that may result in the removal of the additional volume containing the bow wave of the out of tolerance area . In this regard of the cutting tool removes a portion of the plies of the composite structure containing the out of tolerance area . As indicated above the programming may optionally include altering the quantity of plies of the volume and selecting a scarf angle for the edges of the layers

Referring to once all the out of tolerance areas have been removed from the composite structure a composite patch may be fabricated and bonded to the composite structure in order to replace the material removed from the structure . The computer may be used to calculate the number size and type of plies required to fabricate the composite patch based in part on volumes of material removed as calculated by the computer. The peripheral edge of the composite patch may include the scarf that may substantially match the final scarf of the composite structure . After the patch has been bonded to the composite structure the restoration including the composite patch may be rescanned with the ultrasonic sensor as shown in in order to verify the integrity and the quality of the restoration.

Referring to comprising shown is an illustration of a flow diagram of a method of removing out of tolerance areas in a composite aircraft structure or airframe which may be an airframe of an aircraft . For example and without limitation the composite airframe may comprise an aircraft fuselage skin not shown formed of composite materials. As shown in the method may comprise step wherein a frame of the machine tool may be mounted on the airframe such as on the fuselage of the aircraft at a location overlying and encompassing an area of the airframe requiring restoration. The frame of the machine tool may support a movable machine head . A laser tracker or laser positioning system not shown may locate the machine tool relative to the airframe within a known coordinate system which may be the coordinate system of the aircraft . The computer may be used to retrieve airframe geometry from an airframe geometry database which may form part of the geometry database previously described in connection with . At step software may cause the computer to display on the user display e.g. visual display the maximum area on the airframe that can be scanned without moving the machine tool. The user interface may allow the user to determine the particular area on the airframe to be scanned.

At step the area on the airframe selected by the user may be scanned such as with an NDI scanner in order to identify any out of tolerance areas. For example the boundaries of the out of tolerance area may be located by scanning the airframe using the NDI scanner mounted to the machine head . At step data representing the out of tolerance areas identified at step including ply definitions of the out of tolerance areas may be retrieved from the database and overlaid on the airframe geometry. Using this overlaid information the volume of material to be removed including the boundaries of the out of tolerance area may be calculated. The calculations may include calculating the portion to be removed for each ply in the airframe using a taper ratio or scarf angle that may be provided by the user. The user interface may allow the user to view each ply of the skin to be removed on the display.

Referring still to in step the computer may access the CAM application via the API interface and may use the CAM application to generate the tool path for the cutting tool . The user may employ the user interface to input additional information used to program the machine tool including but not limited to the type of tool to be used size of the tool etc. Further in this regard the process continues to step wherein the machine tool may be operated in a user facilitated mode allowing the user to modify the tool path such that the machine tool pauses after removal of each one of n quantity of layers which the user may program into the tool path. If the user facilitated mode is not activated in step the process continues to step wherein the cutting tool e.g. router is driven along the tool path in an automated mode to remove coatings e.g. paint and material in all out of tolerance areas with a user provided taper ratio or scarf angle. If the user facilitated mode is activated in step then the process continues to step wherein a quantity of layers is selected by the user for the volume for which the machine tool will be paused following removal of each one of the layers. The quantity of layers is programmed into the controller.

In step of the cutting tool is driven along the tool path to remove out of tolerance areas with the user provided taper ratio or scarf angle. At step the machine tool pauses at each one of the layers to allow for scanning by the video camera of the area uncovered by the removal of the layer. More specifically when the machine tool is paused the video camera may be activated in step and the area of the airframe uncovered or exposed by the most recent layer removal may be scanned using the video camera in order to locate the boundaries of an additional out of tolerance area of the airframe as described above. The video scanning may facilitate a determination as to whether controller programming edits to the tool path are necessary in order to reduce or eliminate additional out of tolerance areas that may be identified by the visual observation. In this regard the user interface may allow the use to manipulate i.e. zoom pan the video camera.

In addition at step of the NDI scanner may be activated to facilitate the prediction of the geometry of bow waves observed by means of the video camera. In this regard the NDI scanner may facilitate the prediction of the depth and angle of the bow wave. If no tool path edits are necessary in step the machine tool is reactivated for removal of another one of the layers in step . Upon reaching the end of the tool path in step the process continues to step of wherein the cutting tool is driven along the tool path in the automated mode to remove coatings e.g. paint and all out of tolerance areas with a user provided taper ratio or scarf angle in the airframe. In step the area of the airframe where the volume of material is removed may be rescanned to determine if there are additional non conforming or out of tolerance areas previously undetectable by the previous scan due to overlying out of tolerance areas.

Referring back to step if additional out of tolerance areas such as bow waves are identified then the tool path may be edited by reprogramming the controller such that the volume of material for removal includes the additional out of tolerance areas. In this regard an additional volume of material may be calculated for removal from the airframe based upon the boundaries of the additional out of tolerance area. In step such editing may include but is not limited to editing the programming to remove the bow wave editing the programming to remove a portion of a ply editing the quantity of layers into which the volume is divided and editing the scarf angle. The steps of removing the layers pausing the machine tool scanning the area of the airframe uncovered by the removal of the layer and editing the controller programming may be performed iteratively until the volume of material or additional out of tolerance areas are reduced or removed.

Following the removal of all out of tolerance areas the area of the composite structure from which the volume of material was removed may be rescanned in step as indicated above to determine if there are additional non conforming or out of tolerance areas. If there are no additional out of tolerance areas in decision step the method proceeds to step where a final scarf angle or taper ratio e.g. 30 1 taper ratio may be calculated. The CAM application may be called up and a tool path not shown may be generated to remove additional material required to produce the final scarf angle. The user may provide additional information during this step including without limitation the type and size of the cutting tool. At step using the tool path generated at step the cutting tool may remove additional coating e.g. paint and ply areas necessary to complete the scarf with a pre selected or user defined final scarf angle or taper ratio.

The method may further include replacing the volume of the structure e.g. airframe that may be removed by the machine tool. For example as shown in the method may comprise bonding a patch to the composite structure to replace the volumes removed by the machine tool in the manner described above. In this regard the patch may be provided in a configuration similar to that which is shown in wherein the patch may be configured to substantially fill the volume of material removed from the composite structure . In an alternative embodiment not shown the patch may be provided in a doubler or blister configuration not shown which may be mounted to an inner and or outer mold line not shown of the composite structure such as in an area over the volume of material removed from the composite structure. The patch may alternatively be formed as a combination of a scarfed and doubler configuration not shown which may be mounted to the inner and or outer mold lines not shown of the composite structure. The patch may be mounted to the composite structure by any suitable means such as by bonding and or with mechanical fasteners not shown or any combination thereof as part of the restoration of the composite structure having one or more out of tolerance areas.

Embodiments of the disclosure may find use in a variety of potential applications particularly in the transportation industry including for example aerospace and marine applications. Thus referring now to embodiments of the disclosure may be used in the context of an aircraft manufacturing and service method as shown in and an aircraft as shown in . During pre production exemplary method may include specification and design of the aircraft and material procurement in which the disclosed method and apparatus may be specified for use in restoring or reworking areas of composite parts or components used in the aircraft . During production component and subassembly manufacturing and system integration of the aircraft takes place. The disclosed method and apparatus may be used to restore or rework areas of composite parts or components used in the aircraft during these production processes. Thereafter the aircraft may go through certification and delivery in order to be placed in service . While in service by a customer the aircraft is scheduled for routine maintenance and service which may also include modification reconfiguration refurbishment and so on . The disclosed method and apparatus may be used to restore or rework composite parts on the aircraft during the maintenance and service .

Each of the processes of method may be performed or carried out by a system integrator a third party and or an operator e.g. a customer . For the purposes of this description a system integrator may include without limitation any number of aircraft manufacturers and major system subcontractors a third party may include without limitation any number of vendors subcontractors and suppliers and an operator may be an airline leasing company military entity service organization and so on.

As shown in the aircraft produced by exemplary method may include an airframe with a plurality of systems and an interior . The airframe may include a fuselage . The disclosed method and apparatus may be used to restore or rework composite parts which form part of or may be installed on the airframe including the fuselage . Examples of high level systems include one or more of a propulsion system an electrical system a hydraulic system and an environmental system . Any number of other systems may be included. Although an aerospace example is shown the principles of the disclosure may be applied to any other industry without limitation such as the marine and automotive industries.

The disclosed method and apparatus may be employed to restore or rework composite parts during any one or more of the stages of the production and service method . For example components or subassemblies corresponding to production process may be reworked or restored using the disclosed method and apparatus. Also one or more method embodiments or a combination thereof may be utilized during the production stages and for example by substantially expediting assembly of or reducing the cost of an aircraft . Similarly the disclosed method and apparatus may be used to restore or rework composite parts that are utilized while the aircraft is in service.

Although the embodiments of this disclosure have been described with respect to certain exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the specific embodiments are for purposes of illustration and not limitation as other variations will occur to those of skill in the art.

