---

title: Regular visitor to friend board in viral game
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for presenting Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) in an online game. In one method, a player becomes a “regular” visitor of a friend when the player visits the friend a predetermined amount of times within a certain period (e.g., three times within the last seven days). When a player becomes a regular visitor, the player may obtain items (e.g., pepper) that are not obtainable in any other way. As long as a player is a regular visitor, the player may continue visiting the friend to continue obtaining the special items. However, if the player falls below the threshold of visits required within the period, the status of regular visitor is lost by the player, and the player may regain the regular status by meeting the requirement again.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09254436&OS=09254436&RS=09254436
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09254436
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130718
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 674 806 filed Jul. 23 2012 and entitled GRAPHIC USER INTERFACE FOR COOKING GAME U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 674 812 filed Jul. 23 2012 entitled REGULAR VISITOR TO FRIEND BOARD IN VIRAL GAME and from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 674 817 filed Jul. 23 2012 entitled SERVICES FOR IMPORTANT CUSTOMERS IN ONLINE GAME. These provisional applications are herein incorporated by reference.

The present embodiments relate to methods for executing games in a distributed environment and more particularly methods systems and computer programs for performing viral interactions cooking operations in a cooking game.

Online games that allow players to interact with other players have become popular. Some online games such as chess or bridge have a small number of players that play together at the same time. Other online games such as Massively Multiplayer Online MMO games can have a large number of players playing simultaneously. Online game operators also referred to as social game operators harness the power of online social networks to design games that closely integrate the players social graph data with their existing friendship connections.

Game operators are continuously looking for new ways to improve social interactions to the game and for new game interfaces that provide a realistic experience to players. Players wish to improve their game experience by submerging themselves in the fiction of the game and the better the experience is the longer that players will stay in the game and the higher the probability that players invite their friends to play. Improving the way players interact with each other in the game is one way to improve the gaming experience which differentiates the social game from the one person game.

Methods systems and computer programs are presented for presenting Graphical User Interfaces GUIs in an online game. In one method a player becomes a regular visitor of a friend when the player visits the friend a predetermined amount of times within a certain period e.g. three times within the last seven days . When a player becomes a regular the player may obtain items e.g. pepper that are not obtainable in any other way. As long as a player is a regular visitor the player may continue visiting the friend to continue obtaining the special items. However if the player falls below the threshold of visits required within the period the status of regular visitor is lost by the player and the player may regain the regular status by meeting the requirement again.

Methods systems and computer programs are presented for presenting Graphical User Interfaces GUIs in an online game. Some restaurant customers request special non food related items such as music or flowers. The customers that request the non food services are called VIPs Very Important Persons in the game fiction. To satisfy the non food related request the player must acquire specialty items and deliver these items. If the player satisfies the special request referred to as a VIP service the player gets special rewards. In one example the player gets a recommendation which may be used to unlock game features but the reward may also include additional ingredients currency expansion areas in the game board cooking appliances decorations etc.

In one embodiment a method for executing a game includes an operation for detecting a visit by a first player having a first game board to a second game board of a second player in the game where the first game board is different from the second game board. Further the method includes an operation for determining within a predetermined time period having a plurality of time slots a number of time slots where the first player has visited the second game board during a respective time slot. Additionally the method includes an operation for assigning the first player a regular visitor status when the number of time slots is equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold and assigning the first player a non regular visitor status when the number of time slots is less than the predetermined threshold. The game gives the first player a special reward when the first player has the regular visitor status where the special reward may be obtained in the game by achieving the regular visitor status. In one embodiment the operations of the method are executed by a processor.

In another embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing a computer program for executing a game is presented. The computer readable storage medium includes program instructions for detecting a visit by a first player having a first game board to a second game board of a second player in the game where the first game board is different from the second game board. Further the computer readable storage medium includes program instructions for determining within a predetermined time period having a plurality of time slots a number of time slots where the first player has visited the second game board during a respective time slot. Additional program instructions are provided for assigning the first player a regular visitor status when the number of time slots is equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold and assigning the first player a non regular visitor status when the number of time slots is less than the predetermined threshold. Additional program instructions are provided for giving the first player a special reward when the first player has the regular visitor status where the special reward may be obtained in the game by achieving the regular visitor status.

In yet another embodiment a system for executing a game includes a processor and a memory. The memory includes program instructions for a social manager module a visit manager module and a game module. The social manager module manages friendship relationships established between players in the game. Further the visit manager module detects a visit by a first player having a first game board to a second game board of a second player in the game where the first game board is different from the second game board. In addition the visit manager module determines within a predetermined time period having a plurality of time slots a number of time slots where the first player has visited the second game board. Additionally the visit manager module assigns the first player a regular visitor status when the number of time slots is equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold and gives the first player a non regular visitor status when the number of time slots is less than the predetermined threshold. Furthermore the game module gives the first player a special reward when the first player has the regular visitor status where the special reward may be obtained in the game by achieving the regular visitor status.

It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a method an apparatus a system a device or a computer program on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

In one embodiment progress in the cooking game is made by cooking dishes and serving the dishes to customers. After customers finish eating the dishes the player gets rewards such as in game currency mastery stars experience points etc. The player is also able to expand the game by adding space to the restaurant buying more cooking appliances tables decorations etc.

Once the player selects a dish the interface presents the ingredients needed to make the dish and next to each ingredient two numbers are presented indicating how many of these ingredients the player currently owns and how many ingredients are needed for cooking this dish. For example a ratio of 4 1 next to the meat indicates that the player has four pieces of meat to cook with and that only one is needed to make the hamburger. If the player does not have the minimum number of ingredients to make the dish then the player cannot cook the dish and the player has to perform additional game operations to get the missing ingredients. For example if the player needs two potatoes but the player only has one potato to make a dish the ratio would be 1 2 which shows that the player is short one potato. More details are given below on how to get missing ingredients with reference to A C.

In one embodiment the dish also has a preparation time e.g. 45 seconds 12 hours etc. which is the amount of time needed to cook the dish once cooking starts. In addition next to the dish some rewards may be shown indicating the prizes to be obtained by the user when the dish is completed such as how many servings of the dish are available to serve to clients of the restaurant a mastery start and some game coins.

If the player owns the ingredients needed to make the dish a start button is presented to the user to enable the user to start the cooking process. In one embodiment if the player selects the start button the player is presented a new user interface to add the ingredients to the cooking appliance as shown in .

The ingredients are presented around the cooking appliance and the ingredients are selectable by the player e.g. via mouse click or by passing the mouse cursor over the ingredient referred to herein as a mouse over . In one embodiment an additional element is presented together with the ingredients. This additional element is also referred to as the finishing touch the last operation the flourish the cooking start the cooking finishing moves etc. and is used as the last operation in preparing the dish after all the other ingredients have already been added to the cooking appliance. In one embodiment the finishing touch is not selectable until all the ingredients have been added to the cooking appliance. Embodiments described below refer to the finishing touch as being part of the cooking process but other embodiments may also be implemented without the use of the finishing touch.

In one embodiment a game bar in the GUI includes a list of friends represented by respective icons photos or drawings of the friends and a menu of game options such as go to the market see the game inventory social area gifts etc. The game bar is expandable and has a variable number of friends where the number of friends presented depends on one or more factors such as how many friends the player has in the game the current screen size where the GUI is being displayed the game elements being displayed at a certain time e.g. the presence of a chat window for chatting with other players may decrease the size of the game bar etc.

In some embodiments slots for adding friends e.g. Add Friend are presented in the expandable game bar and if the player clicks on the Add Friend slot then a user interface is presented to add a new friend for the player in the game. The interface may include sending an invitation to the friend via intra game communications or via an external website such as a social network. In one embodiment the number of slots for adding friends is limited to one slot while in other embodiments the GUI bar may include more than one slot for adding friends.

In one embodiment when the player clicks in one of the friends in the game bar the game initiates a visit to the selected friend. A visit to the game board of the friend includes transporting the avatar of the player to the game board of the friend and enabling the player to perform game operations within the game board of the friend being visited.

In one embodiment the ingredient may be obtained by harvesting the ingredient such as by growing a tomato plant and harvesting the tomato or by crafting the ingredient in a crafting station e.g. cooking bread or by some other game mechanic. In one embodiment the crafting station is utilized to obtain a crafted ingredient which in turn requires one or more ingredients to be added during the preparation of the crafted ingredient in the crafting station. In one embodiment the crafting station is a brick oven and the user may use the brick oven to make bread. In order to make the bread the user needs to add dough to the oven to make the bread.

In another embodiment the box associated with the missing ingredient also includes the option of buying the ingredient not shown in . If the player selects the buy option the player is taken to a purchase interface where the player may buy the ingredient with game currency or some other asset.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in and A C are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different layouts different animations different order of preparation etc. The embodiments illustrated in and A C should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

The friend s board is a game board created by the friend in the game i.e. the home game board of the friend and when the player is visiting the friend the player may perform operations therein to help the friend such as serving dishes harvesting tomatoes etc. In exchange for helping the friend the player gets game rewards such as energy friendship points ingredients etc. While visiting the friend the player s avatar may wander around the friend s board. In the example of the player s avatar is sitting at a table in the restaurant.

It is noted that in one embodiment the game provides a fictitious friend to the player so the player may perform viral operations even if the player does not have any friends in the game yet. In one embodiment the visit operation to a real friend provides the same features to the player as a visit operation to the fictitious friend and in another embodiment the visit to the fictitious friend may have different features.

In one embodiment while the player is visiting the operations that the player may perform are highlighted in some fashion such as by including arrows pointing to the items that may be clicked and operated upon by the player s avatar. If the player places the mouse cursor over a particular item in one embodiment the game provides information about the item and the operations to be performed. In the exemplary embodiment of the game shows that the player may obtain mushrooms and game currency if the player helps the friend e.g. Madeline to serve a dish. If the player selects this option the dish will be served to clients in Madeline s restaurant and the player will obtain mushrooms and currency. If the player needed mushrooms to complete a dish the player may now return back home and cook the dish with the mushrooms.

In one embodiment another option for getting missing ingredients is through a viral request which involves asking a friend for the missing ingredient. The viral request is performed inside the game without sending the request to an external entity outside the game such as a social network. Once the player selects a friend having the missing ingredient a request is sent to the friend which may receive the request in different ways such as a pop up message when the friend signs into the game a message in a message board the message in a chat etc. In one embodiment besides sending a request within the game a separate notification may be sent to the friend such as via e mail text message post or some other form of electronic communication.

In one embodiment the request is presented to the friend via an avatar in the friend s board game with a message describing the request such as in the embodiment of . The avatar presented is the avatar of the requester in the game and the request may also include a picture of the requester. In one embodiment the message includes a list of available ingredients that may be given to the requester a first button to visit the game board of the requester and a second button to get the friend the requested ingredient or ingredients.

In one embodiment when the friend gifts and ingredient the count for that ingredient is decreased accordingly for the giver and increased for the recipient. In another embodiment the ingredient may be shared and the count of the giver does not decrease while the count for the recipient does increase.

After the player finishes the visit by clicking in the take me home button the game displays a message that includes the reward obtained by the player such as the exemplary embodiment of . In this embodiment the player has obtained 5 coins 3 units of energy and 1 unit of heart which is a metric associated with the strength of the viral help provided by the player .

In one embodiment the predetermined time period is divided into timeslots and in one embodiment the player is only credited with one visit per timeslot and if the player visits more than once within a timeslot the player only gets credit for one visit. For example if the time period is 7 days and the timeslot is 1 day when the player visits the friend three times in the same day the player only gets credit for one visit in the same day. In another embodiment the player gets credited for each visit independent of the frequency of the visits.

When a player becomes a regular the player may obtain items e.g. pepper that are not obtainable in any other way. As long as a player is a regular the player may continue visiting the friend to continue obtaining the special items. However if the player falls below the threshold of visits required within the time period the status of regular is lost by the player and the player may regain the regular status by meeting the conditions to become a regular again.

In the exemplary embodiments of to obtain a regular status a player must visit a friend at least once a day for at least three different days within the last seven days the present day plus the previous six days . Using the nomenclature defined above the period for visiting is 7 days the time slot is one day and the required number of visits is at least 3. It is noted that the embodiments illustrated are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different time periods e.g. 30 days 14 days 60 days etc. different time slots e.g. day week month year etc. different number of visits required etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In addition the message shows a grayed or dimmed icon for pepper and other ingredients. The pepper is dimmed because this reward is not available to a casual i.e. not regular visitor. Because the player has only visited once in seven days the player is not a regular visitor the player is a casual visitor and therefore the player does not get the pepper as reward.

The counter bar now includes three shaded slots to indicate that three visits took place during the last seven days. In one embodiment the colour or shading of the counter bar is different when the player is a casual visitor that when the player is a regular visitor. For example in one embodiment the casual visitor gets red slots in the counter bar and the regular visitor gets green slots in the counter bar.

As long as the player meets the requirement to be a regular visitor visiting at least three times in the last seven days the player will keep getting the special reward for regulars as long as the condition is maintained. For example shows a rewards message after the player has visited four times within the last seven days.

In one embodiment the counter bar acts as a simple counter for the number of visits during the last seven days as seen in . For example if the player is playing on a Sunday the counter bar will look the same having two dark slots if the player has visited on Monday and Wednesday or if the player has visited on Tuesday and Friday.

In another embodiment the counter bar also acts an indicator of which days within the last seven days the player visiting the friend as illustrated in . This way the player gets some indication of the history of visits to the friend. In the exemplary embodiment of if the first slot corresponds to a Sunday the bar indicates that the player has visited on Tuesday Wednesday Friday and Saturday which correspond to the dark slots.

As discussed above with reference to the game bar in the GUI includes a list of friends represented by respective icons photos or drawings of the friends. In addition the embodiment of includes indicators of which friends the player has visited regularly. In other words for which friends the player has currently a regular visitor status. This information may be useful to the player when the player is in need of the special item e.g. pepper that may only be obtained via a visit to a friend that the player has a status of regular visitor.

In addition some player icons include a counter indicating how many times the player has visited the respective friend. Of course those players whose counter meet the requirements for being a regular will also have the regular indicator . In another embodiment a separate counter not shown in is also presented to indicate those friends that are considered regular visitors of the player.

In one embodiment when a player has the status of regular visitor with a friend and the friend also has a regular status with the player i.e. both players are regular visitors of each other the rewards obtained when visiting each other are increased in order to promote viral interactions. In one embodiment a special ingredient is available to the player only when the player visits a friend with reciprocal regular visitor status.

In the embodiment of the condition for being a regular visitor is that the player must visit a friend at least once during at least three different days within the last seven days. Consequently the sliding window covers seven days because that is the period for calculating the number of visits.

On the top row of each box indicates whether the player visited the friend or not. If the player visited the friend the box includes a v and if the player did not visit on that day the box is empty. The second row of indicates whether the player has achieved the regular status in a given day. If the player has the regular status the corresponding box includes an r and if the player does not have the regular status the box is empty.

To determine whether the player is regular on a given date or not a sliding window is placed covering the given date and the previous six days. The number of visits number of v s within the sliding window determines the status for the last box on the bottom row within the sliding window. In the example window of there are three visits therefore the status on the last day is that of a regular visitor.

From operation the method flows to operation where the number of days where the player visited the friend in the last week is calculated. A check is performed in operation and if the number of days with a visit is greater than or equal to three then the method flows to operation and to operation if the number of visits is less than three.

In operation the visitor status is set to regular and in operation the visitor status is set to non regular also referred to as casual. In operation a check is made to determine if there are more friends for which the visitor status needs to be calculated and if the check is positive then the method flows to operation and otherwise the method ends. In operation the next friend for which the visitor status is to be determined is selected. From operation the method flows back to operation to repeat the aforementioned cycle for determining the visitor status.

In state a game board is presented and in one embodiment the game board represents a restaurant or a caf where the game takes place but other types game boards are also possible. See for example the game board of . When the user selects to visit a friend the game transitions to state . In one embodiment the user elects to visit a friend by selecting an icon or photo associated with the friend. The icon or photo may appear in several game interfaces or elements such as in a game bar in an avatar associated with the friend in a recommendation page for obtaining an ingredient that the friend has etc.

In state the game displays the game board of the friend being visited. The game board of the friend is a game board created by the friend and that includes the elements that have been created added purchased modified etc. by the friend in the game. While in the friend s game board the player may perform several actions in order to help the friend and or get rewards. For example the player may serve food to clients in the friend s restaurant water a tomato plant etc.

While in state if the player performs and in game task the game transitions to operation where the task is performed at the friend s restaurant. Once the task is completed the game returns to state . Further if the player selects to go home while in state the game transitions to state where the visitor status is calculated for the player. If the player receives the status of regular visitor the game transitions to state where the rewards are determined based on the regular visitor status of the player. In one embodiment the player gets an ingredient that is only available to those players that achieve the regular visitor status.

If the player is not a regular player the game transitions to operation where the rewards are determined for the player without regular status. From state or state the game transitions to state where the determined rewards are given to the player and presented on a display see for example the embodiments of . After the rewards are given to the player the game transitions back to state and the game displays the game board of the player.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different states interfaces options etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

There is one row per player being visited player visited and one column for each visiting players player visitor . Each cell holds a binary value indicating if the player visitor visited the player visited in the date associated with the matrix. In the embodiment of a visit is represented by and x and the lack of the visit is represented by a blank cell.

Since there may be millions of users in an MMO the matrix will be very sparse this means that a majority of the values will be blanks meaning that no visits have taken place. Therefore methods for storing sparse matrices may be utilized without having to waste memory space.

In order to calculate the visitor status regular or non regular for a player visitor to a player visited the game examines the corresponding cell value in each of the matrices corresponding to the last seven days. Adding the number of visits in these cells determines the number of visits and if the number of visits conforms to the requirement for being a regular player the player visitor is considered a regular visitor of the player visited and a non regular player otherwise.

In the exemplary embodiment of a plurality of lists are kept for each player. One list is kept per friend visited by the player and the list includes the dates where the player visited the corresponding friend.

For example in the player Joe has visited friends Al Pete Dave etc. By examining the list associated with friend Al it can be observed that Joe visited Al on May 4 2013 May 1 2013 Apr. 7 2013 Jan. 11 2013 Jan. 10 2012 and May 9 2012. In this embodiment all the visits are kept in the database but in another embodiment cleaning operations eliminate visits than a certain date e.g. older than one week older than one month etc. .

In order to calculate the regular visitor status of the friend the game examines the list and counts how many times the player has visited within the predetermined time period. In one embodiment entries older than the predetermined period are raised at the time of calculating visitor status.

In another embodiment not shown instead of keeping list for the friends visited by a player lists are kept for the friends that visited a player. It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different data structures a combination of e.g. a matrix implemented with linked lists etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

In one embodiment the recipe is sent to the player via e mail although other forms of communication are also possible such as posting the recipe in a social network providing a website address to access the recipe providing an interface in the game to print the recipe etc.

In one embodiment game manager manages the game operations for each of the players and game manager interacts with other modules to perform respective game operations within the game. In addition the game manager manages the game data stored for running the player s games although other modules may also access and change some of the game data. In one embodiment the functionality implemented by game manager includes presenting the game board to the player e.g. view of the restaurant presenting options to the player for customizing and controlling an avatar of the game being the interface to the player with other game modules synchronizing game operations with client managing communications with client etc.

Cooking manager manages the cooking operations in the game. In one embodiment when the player selects a cooking appliance to perform a cooking operation the cooking manager is invoked by game manager . In one exemplary embodiment the cooking manager presents cooking appliance for cooking dishes such as the one shown in .

Visit manager manages visit operations from players to their friends including enabling operations in the game board of the friend calculating whether players are regular visitors to one or more friends etc.

The social manager manages the social interactions of the players which include determining the social links established within the game and outside the game among the players. For example the social manager may suggest friends in the social network to the player that may become friends within the game.

Game data represents one or more databases that hold game related data. The game data includes player data ingredients available for making dishes recipes for the dishes that can be cooked in the restaurant and social data obtained by social manager . The social data includes the relationships established by players in the game within the game and the relationships existing among the players in one or more social websites.

Game data further includes cooking stations data which define the features capabilities dishes that can be cooked cost and other data associated with the cooking stations e.g. a grill . Crafting stations are similar to cooking stations in that they both take ingredients to be processed but the crafting station produces a new processed ingredient instead of a finished dish like the cooking station.

Game data further includes information regarding the regular visitor status for the players in the game and their friends.

Expansions data stores the information about possible expansions in the game and quests data includes different missions that can be started by the player in order to obtain rewards and make progress in the game. Further yet game data includes information regarding visits to follow players in the game inventory communications between player etc.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different game modules different data modules or combine the functionality of one or more modules into a single module. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for keeping game data. In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also include one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and the number of game servers will be lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. An example of a social network is Facebook but it is possible to have other embodiments implemented in other social networks. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data may include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation jackpot server web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HyperText Markup Language HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a notebook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable its player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in Javascript Java Microsoft Silverlight combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous Javascript and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data that can be manipulated by processor . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes random access memory RAM .

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a Hard Disk Drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a Secure Digital card a Secure Digital drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

In one embodiment a game bar in the GUI includes a list of friends represented by respective icons photos or drawings of the friends and a menu of game options such as go to the market see the game inventory social area gifts etc. The game bar is expandable and has a variable number of friends where the number of friends presented depends on one or more factors such as how many friends the player has in the game the current screen size where the GUI is being displayed the game elements being displayed at a certain time e.g. the presence of a chat window for chatting with other players may decrease the size of the game bar etc.

In some embodiments slots for adding friends e.g. Add Friend are presented in the expandable game bar and if the player clicks on the Add Friend slot then a user interface is presented to add a new friend for the player in the game. The interface may include sending an invitation to the friend via intra game communications or via an external website such as a social network. In one embodiment the number of slots for adding friends is limited to one slot while in other embodiments the GUI bar may include more than one slot for adding friends.

In one embodiment when the player clicks in one of the friends in the game bar the game initiates a visit to the selected friend. A visit to the game board of the friend includes transporting the avatar of the player to the game board of the friend and enabling the player to perform game operations within the game board of the friend being visited.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different layouts different animations different order of preparation etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

The term VIP is used herein to name a special request which is non food related but other embodiments may utilize other names such as additional services add on services complementary services non food services etc. The term VIP should therefore be considered exemplary and not limiting.

Further the term VIP customer is used to differentiate regular customers from customers making VIP requests but in another embodiment any customer of the restaurant may request a non food related service.

In order to satisfy the VIP request e.g. music the player must perform a non cooking operation such as a hiring a violinist to satisfy the music request. In one embodiment the VIP requests are not available until the player achieves a predetermined level of expertise in the game. When the player meets the requirement for providing VIP services the VIP requests start appearing in the game.

In one embodiment if the player clicks on the VIP request bubble a new bubble is presented to the player with the message Click to VIP Serve and a first icon of a rose with a counter to indicate that one rose asset is needed to satisfy the request. In addition a second icon of a thumbs up sign is presented with a second counter to indicate the reward which is getting a recommendation represented by the thumbs up . The recommendation is a a special type of reward utilized for unlocking certain game features such as adding new expansion areas to the game board of the player. In other embodiments other types of rewards are also possible for satisfying the VIP request such as new recipes or new ingredients for cooking.

If the player selects the option to fulfill the VIP request a new GUI is presented to enable the player to fulfill the request. For example the player may be taken to the market to buy an item to satisfy the request e.g. flowers or the player may be taken to an interface to use one item from inventory. After the satisfaction of the VIP request and animation takes place to satisfy the VIP request. For example illustrates the satisfaction of the VIP request with the animation of an NPC delivering flowers to the customer s table.

The VIP service is highly fiction relevant and provides a different game activity for the player other than cooking. For example in the cooking game there may be some long waits for the dishes to cook and satisfying VIP requests gives the player something to do while the food cooks. In one embodiment VIP services also encourage the player to engage in viral interactions by having to visit friends to obtain the assets required to satisfy the VIP requests.

If one embodiment the services category in the market includes an option for buying a violin which represents delivering a music service and an option for buying flowers which represents delivering flowers to the customer in the restaurant . Each of the service items for sale include a price e.g. 40 units of game currency . In another embodiment the assets required to satisfy the VIP requests may be obtained from friends such as by sending viral requests or by visiting the friend etc.

It is appreciated that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different services different icons different prices etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

Therefore as used herein a cooking station refers to an element in the game where dishes can be cooked for serving to restaurant customers. The cooking station takes one or more ingredients and processes the ingredients to make the dish. A crafting station refers to an element in the game where ingredients may be combined or processed in order to produce a new ingredient to be used in a cooking station or in another crafting station.

In one embodiment a hybrid grafting cooking station is able to create dishes for serving to customers and able to create ingredients to be used in a cooking station. For example a mixer may be utilized to combine liquids in order to make a drink that can be served to customers and the mixer may also be utilized to create a sauce to be used in a cooking station to prepare a dish.

It is appreciated that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different crafting stations cooking stations recipes etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

Ingredient I is obtained as the reward for completing quest . The quest is completed by performing one or more tasks in the game and the tasks may be an in game task T which is performed by the player in the player s game board or a viral task VT which is completed via viral interaction with friends of the player in the online game.

Ingredient Iis obtained by harvesting a plant that the player has grown in the player s board game. In one embodiment the plant has been grown from a seed S which the player has obtained in the market or via some other game operation not shown such as a gift from a friend a viral interaction etc. .

Another ingredient I is obtained by visiting a expansion unlocked by the player in the player s board. In one embodiment expansion is obtained by accumulating the necessary number of recommendations R required to unlock the expansion but other methods for unlocking expansions are also possible. In one embodiment recommendation R may be obtained by satisfying a VIP request as described above with reference to etc.

Ingredient I can be purchased by the player in market and ingredient I may be crafted in crafting station . As previously described crafting station utilizes one or more ingredients I to prepare the crafted ingredient I.

Cooking appliance takes one or more ingredients I I and after the required cooking time cooking appliance delivers a dish that can be served to customers. Dish is placed in serving tray or in some other service area ready to be selected by the player to be served. In one embodiment when the player selects an NPC in the game waiting to be served the selected dish is served and after a period of time that simulates the NPC eating the dish a reward is given to the player .

In operation a check is made to determine if the valuation of the rules produces the result to present a VIP request in the game. If the determination in operation is positive the method flows to operation and if the determination in operation is negative the method flows to operation . In operation the method waits for a period of time before flowing back to operation to reevaluate the rules for providing VIP services.

In operation one or more NPCs in the game which are customers of a restaurant present a request for a VIP service. In operation a selection by the player for providing the VIP service is detected and the method continues to operation where a check is made to determine if the player is able to satisfy the VIP request without acquiring more game assets.

If the player is able to satisfy the VIP request without needing more game assets the method flows to operation but if the player needs to acquire additional assets e.g. flowers or a violinist the method flows to operation . The game provides an interface to acquire the assets or assets needed to satisfy the request. In one embodiment the game shows the player how to obtain the needed asset. For example the game may show the player that the player needs to visit a friend to obtain this asset or that the player must go to the market to buy the asset.

From operation the method flows to operation where the VIP service is delivered to the restaurant customer. In one embodiment the delivery of the VIP service includes an animation such as having a musician play music or having a delivery person bring flowers to the table.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different rules different ways to present or service VIP requests etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

Cost 1 refers to the cost to purchase the ingredient. For example the ingredient may be bought with game currency. Cost 2 refers to another way of purchasing the item such as utilizing a second type of currency within the game. The difficulty level is an indicator of how hard is to obtain this ingredient. Game designers may choose to make some ingredients harder to obtain while other ingredients might be easier to obtain and readily available to even the beginner player.

The harvest field indicates if the ingredient may be harvested and picked from a plant or tree in the player s garden. The expansion field indicates whether this ingredient may be obtained in an expansion area. In one embodiment the expansion area includes a source for ingredients such as a building where the ingredients are stored within the expansion. For example an expansion may be a bakery or a delicatessen.

The crafted field is a binary flag which indicates whether this ingredient has to be crafted in a crafting station. In other words one or more ingredients are utilized in a crafting station that creates a new crafted ingredient which may be used to cook dishes in a cooking station. The quest field indicates if there is zero or more quests in the game that would give this ingredient as a reward when the quest is completed e.g. the quest may be to start a farm and the reward may be bread .

Some ingredients may be available as generic rewards to be delivered when the player completes quests. For example some quests may not be tied to specific rewards and the game may calculate which rewards the player will get for finishing the quest based on different factors such as the needs of the player the difficulty to obtain some ingredients to encourage the player to perform certain actions in the game etc.

The recipes field includes one or more recipes that utilize the ingredient. The giftable field is a Boolean value that indicates whether this ingredient may be gifted from one player to another. The field available for visiting friend is a Boolean value that indicates whether this ingredient may be obtained when the player visits the game board of another player.

The requestable field indicates whether this ingredient may be requested from friends of the player and the regular status only field indicates if the ingredient is available only for those players that achieve the regular visitor status in the game. The mastery level required field indicates whether a certain level of mastery in the game i.e. expertise in the game must be obtained before the ingredient may be acquired by the player.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different fields organize the fields in a different order utilized additional fields etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more embodiments can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

