---

title: Providing a managed browser
abstract: Methods, systems, computer-readable media, and apparatuses for providing a managed browser are presented. In various embodiments, a computing device may load a managed browser. The managed browser may, for instance, be configured to provide a managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser, and an unmanaged mode in which such policies might not be applied and/or in which the browser might not be managed by at least one device manager agent running on the computing device. Based on device state information and/or one or more policies, the managed browser may switch between the managed mode and the unmanaged mode, and the managed browser may provide various functionalities, which may include selectively providing access to enterprise resources, based on such state information and/or the one or more policies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355223&OS=09355223&RS=09355223
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09355223
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130930
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 866 229 filed Aug. 15 2013 and entitled PROVIDING A SECURE BROWSER and which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 806 577 filed Mar. 29 2013 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ENTERPRISE MOBILITY MANAGEMENT and which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Aspects of the disclosure relate to computer hardware and software. In particular one or more aspects of the disclosure generally relate to computer hardware and software for providing a managed browser.

Increasingly corporations and other organizations are providing and or otherwise enabling their employees and other associates with mobile devices such as smart phones tablet computers and other mobile computing devices. As these devices continue to grow in popularity and provide an increasing number of functions many organizations may wish to place certain controls on how these devices can be used what resources these devices can access and how the applications running on these devices can interact with other resources.

Various aspects of the disclosure provide more efficient effective functional and convenient ways of controlling how mobile devices can be used what resources mobile devices can access and how the applications and other software running on these devices can interact with other resources. In particular in one or more embodiments discussed in greater detail below a managed browser can be deployed implemented and or used in a number of different ways to provide one or more of these and or other advantages.

In some embodiments a computing device may load a managed browser. Subsequently the computing device may receive a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser. Then the computing device may create at least one application tunnel from the managed browser to the one or more enterprise resources. The computing device then may obtain enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources via the at least one application tunnel.

In some embodiments a computing device may load a managed browser. Subsequently the computing device may establish a connection to at least one other computing device to initiate a device cloud. Then the computing device may extend a session of the managed browser across the device cloud.

In some embodiments a computing device may load a managed browser. Subsequently the computing device may obtain device state information. Then the computing device may determine based on the device state information whether to selectively disable one or more operational modes of the managed browser. In response to determining to selectively disable at least one operational mode of the managed browser the computing device may cause the at least one operational mode to be disabled.

In some embodiments a computing device may load a managed browser. Subsequently the computing device may receive one or more policies. Then the computing device may apply the one or more policies to the managed browser.

In some embodiments a computing device may load a managed browser. Subsequently the computing device may receive a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser. Then the computing device may obtain enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources based on the request. The computing device then may store the obtained enterprise data in a secure document container.

In some embodiments a computing device may load a managed browser. Subsequently the computing device may receive a single sign on SSO credential that is associated with at least one user account. Then the computing device may obtain enterprise data from one or more enterprise resources based on the SSO credential. The computing device then may provide access to the obtained enterprise data via the managed browser.

In some embodiments a computing device may load a managed browser. Subsequently the computing device may receive a request to access an application store via the managed browser. Then the computing device may obtain enterprise data from the application store based on the request.

In some embodiments a computing device may load a managed browser. Subsequently the computing device may receive a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser. Then the computing device may obtain enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources based on the request. The computing device then may control the obtained enterprise data based on one or more policies.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings identified above which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which various aspects of the disclosure may be practiced. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope discussed herein. Various aspects are capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or being carried out in various different ways. In addition the phraseology and terminology used herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. Rather the phrases and terms used herein are to be given their broadest interpretation and meaning. The use of including and comprising and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items and equivalents thereof.

As noted above certain embodiments are discussed herein that relate to providing a managed browser. Before discussing these concepts in greater detail however several examples of computing architecture and enterprise mobility management architecture that may be used in implementing and or otherwise providing various aspects of the disclosure will first be discussed with respect to .

Computer software hardware and networks may be utilized in a variety of different system environments including standalone networked remote access aka remote desktop virtualized and or cloud based environments among others. illustrates one example of a system architecture and data processing device that may be used to implement one or more illustrative aspects described herein in a standalone and or networked environment. Various network nodes and may be interconnected via a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. Other networks may also or alternatively be used including private intranets corporate networks local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MAN wireless networks personal networks PAN and the like. Network is for illustration purposes and may be replaced with fewer or additional computer networks. A LAN may have one or more of any known LAN topology and may use one or more of a variety of different protocols such as Ethernet. Devices and other devices not shown may be connected to one or more of the networks via twisted pair wires coaxial cable fiber optics radio waves or other communication media.

The term network as used herein and depicted in the drawings refers not only to systems in which remote storage devices are coupled together via one or more communication paths but also to stand alone devices that may be coupled from time to time to such systems that have storage capability. Consequently the term network includes not only a physical network but also a content network which is comprised of the data attributable to a single entity which resides across all physical networks.

The components may include data server web server and client computers . Data server provides overall access control and administration of databases and control software for performing one or more illustrative aspects describe herein. Data server may be connected to web server through which users interact with and obtain data as requested. Alternatively data server may act as a web server itself and be directly connected to the Internet. Data server may be connected to web server through the network e.g. the Internet via direct or indirect connection or via some other network. Users may interact with the data server using remote computers e.g. using a web browser to connect to the data server via one or more externally exposed web sites hosted by web server . Client computers may be used in concert with data server to access data stored therein or may be used for other purposes. For example from client device a user may access web server using an Internet browser as is known in the art or by executing a software application that communicates with web server and or data server over a computer network such as the Internet .

Servers and applications may be combined on the same physical machines and retain separate virtual or logical addresses or may reside on separate physical machines. illustrates just one example of a network architecture that may be used and those of skill in the art will appreciate that the specific network architecture and data processing devices used may vary and are secondary to the functionality that they provide as further described herein. For example services provided by web server and data server may be combined on a single server.

Each component may be any type of known computer server or data processing device. Data server e.g. may include a processor controlling overall operation of the rate server . Data server may further include RAM ROM network interface input output interfaces e.g. keyboard mouse display printer etc. and memory . I O may include a variety of interface units and drives for reading writing displaying and or printing data or files. Memory may further store operating system software for controlling overall operation of the data processing device control logic for instructing data server to perform aspects described herein and other application software providing secondary support and or other functionality which may or may not be used in conjunction with aspects described herein. The control logic may also be referred to herein as the data server software . Functionality of the data server software may refer to operations or decisions made automatically based on rules coded into the control logic made manually by a user providing input into the system and or a combination of automatic processing based on user input e.g. queries data updates etc. .

Memory may also store data used in performance of one or more aspects described herein including a first database and a second database . In some embodiments the first database may include the second database e.g. as a separate table report etc. . That is the information can be stored in a single database or separated into different logical virtual or physical databases depending on system design. Devices may have similar or different architecture as described with respect to device . Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the functionality of data processing device or device as described herein may be spread across multiple data processing devices for example to distribute processing load across multiple computers to segregate transactions based on geographic location user access level quality of service QoS etc.

One or more aspects may be embodied in computer usable or readable data and or computer executable instructions such as in one or more program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices as described herein. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types when executed by a processor in a computer or other device. The modules may be written in a source code programming language that is subsequently compiled for execution or may be written in a scripting language such as but not limited to Javascript or ActionScript. The computer executable instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a nonvolatile storage device. Any suitable computer readable storage media may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices magnetic storage devices and or any combination thereof. In addition various transmission non storage media representing data or events as described herein may be transferred between a source and a destination in the form of electromagnetic waves traveling through signal conducting media such as metal wires optical fibers and or wireless transmission media e.g. air and or space . Various aspects described herein may be embodied as a method a data processing system or a computer program product. Therefore various functionalities may be embodied in whole or in part in software firmware and or hardware or hardware equivalents such as integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGA and the like. Particular data structures may be used to more effectively implement one or more aspects described herein and such data structures are contemplated within the scope of computer executable instructions and computer usable data described herein.

With further reference to one or more aspects described herein may be implemented in a remote access environment. depicts an example system architecture including a generic computing device in an illustrative computing environment that may be used according to one or more illustrative aspects described herein. Generic computing device may be used as a server in a single server or multi server desktop virtualization system e.g. a remote access or cloud system configured to provide virtual machines for client access devices. The generic computing device may have a processor for controlling overall operation of the server and its associated components including random access memory RAM read only memory ROM input output I O module and memory .

I O module may include a mouse keypad touch screen scanner optical reader and or stylus or other input device s through which a user of generic computing device may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output. Software may be stored within memory and or other storage to provide instructions to processor for configuring generic computing device into a special purpose computing device in order to perform various functions as described herein. For example memory may store software used by the computing device such as an operating system application programs and an associated database .

Computing device may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers such as terminals also referred to as client devices . The terminals may be personal computers mobile devices laptop computers tablets or servers that include many or all of the elements described above with respect to the generic computing device or . The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment computing device may be connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment computing device may include a modem or other wide area network interface for establishing communications over the WAN such as computer network e.g. the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. Computing device and or terminals may also be mobile terminals e.g. mobile phones smartphones PDAs notebooks etc. including various other components such as a battery speaker and antennas not shown .

Aspects described herein may also be operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of other computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with aspects described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

As shown in one or more client devices may be in communication with one or more servers generally referred to herein as server s . In one embodiment the computing environment may include a network appliance installed between the server s and client machine s . The network appliance may manage client server connections and in some cases can load balance client connections amongst a plurality of backend servers .

The client machine s may in some embodiments be referred to as a single client machine or a single group of client machines while server s may be referred to as a single server or a single group of servers . In one embodiment a single client machine communicates with more than one server while in another embodiment a single server communicates with more than one client machine . In yet another embodiment a single client machine communicates with a single server .

A client machine can in some embodiments be referenced by any one of the following non exhaustive terms client machine s client s client computer s client device s client computing device s local machine remote machine client node s endpoint s or endpoint node s . The server in some embodiments may be referenced by any one of the following non exhaustive terms server s local machine remote machine server farm s or host computing device s .

In one embodiment the client machine may be a virtual machine. The virtual machine may be any virtual machine while in some embodiments the virtual machine may be any virtual machine managed by a Type 1 or Type 2 hypervisor for example a hypervisor developed by Citrix Systems IBM VMware or any other hypervisor. In some aspects the virtual machine may be managed by a hypervisor while in aspects the virtual machine may be managed by a hypervisor executing on a server or a hypervisor executing on a client .

Some embodiments include a client device that displays application output generated by an application remotely executing on a server or other remotely located machine. In these embodiments the client device may execute a virtual machine client agent program or application to display the output in an application window a browser or other output window. In one example the application is a desktop while in other examples the application is an application that generates or presents a desktop. A desktop may include a graphical shell providing a user interface for an instance of an operating system in which local and or remote applications can be integrated. Applications as used herein are programs that execute after an instance of an operating system and optionally also the desktop has been loaded.

The server in some embodiments uses a remote presentation protocol or other program to send data to a thin client or remote display application executing on the client to present display output generated by an application executing on the server . The thin client or remote display protocol can be any one of the following non exhaustive list of protocols the Independent Computing Architecture ICA protocol developed by Citrix Systems Inc. of Ft. Lauderdale Fla. or the Remote Desktop Protocol RDP manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

A remote computing environment may include more than one server such that the servers are logically grouped together into a server farm for example in a cloud computing environment. The server farm may include servers that are geographically dispersed while and logically grouped together or servers that are located proximate to each other while logically grouped together. Geographically dispersed servers within a server farm can in some embodiments communicate using a WAN wide MAN metropolitan or LAN local where different geographic regions can be characterized as different continents different regions of a continent different countries different states different cities different campuses different rooms or any combination of the preceding geographical locations. In some embodiments the server farm may be administered as a single entity while in other embodiments the server farm can include multiple server farms.

In some embodiments a server farm may include servers that execute a substantially similar type of operating system platform e.g. WINDOWS UNIX LINUX iOS ANDROID SYMBIAN etc. In other embodiments server farm may include a first group of one or more servers that execute a first type of operating system platform and a second group of one or more servers that execute a second type of operating system platform.

Server may be configured as any type of server as needed e.g. a file server an application server a web server a proxy server an appliance a network appliance a gateway an application gateway a gateway server a virtualization server a deployment server a SSL VPN server a firewall a web server an application server or as a master application server a server executing an active directory or a server executing an application acceleration program that provides firewall functionality application functionality or load balancing functionality. Other server types may also be used.

Some embodiments include a first server that receives requests from a client machine forwards the request to a second server and responds to the request generated by the client machine with a response from the second server . First server may acquire an enumeration of applications available to the client machine and well as address information associated with an application server hosting an application identified within the enumeration of applications. First server can then present a response to the client s request using a web interface and communicate directly with the client to provide the client with access to an identified application. One or more clients and or one or more servers may transmit data over network e.g. network .

The operating system of the mobile device may be separated into a managed partition and an unmanaged partition . The managed partition may have policies applied to it to secure the applications running on and data stored in the managed partition. The applications running on the managed partition may be secure applications. The secure applications may be email applications web browsing applications software as a service SaaS access applications Windows Application access applications and the like. The secure applications may be secure native applications secure remote applications executed by a secure application launcher virtualization applications executed by a secure application launcher and the like. The secure native applications may be wrapped by a secure application wrapper . The secure application wrapper may include integrated policies that are executed on the mobile device when the secure native application is executed on the device. The secure application wrapper may include meta data that points the secure native application running on the mobile device to the resources hosted at the enterprise that the secure native application may require to complete the task requested upon execution of the secure native application . The secure remote applications executed by a secure application launcher may be executed within the secure application launcher application . The virtualization applications executed by a secure application launcher may utilize resources on the mobile device at the enterprise resources and the like. The resources used on the mobile device by the virtualization applications executed by a secure application launcher may include user interaction resources processing resources and the like. The user interaction resources may be used to collect and transmit keyboard input mouse input camera input tactile input audio input visual input gesture input and the like. The processing resources may be used to present a user interface process data received from the enterprise resources and the like. The resources used at the enterprise resources by the virtualization applications executed by a secure application launcher may include user interface generation resources processing resources and the like. The user interface generation resources may be used to assemble a user interface modify a user interface refresh a user interface and the like. The processing resources may be used to create information read information update information delete information and the like. For example the virtualization application may record user interactions associated with a GUI and communicate them to a server application where the server application will use the user interaction data as an input to the application operating on the server. In this arrangement an enterprise may elect to maintain the application on the server side as well as data files etc. associated with the application. While an enterprise may elect to mobilize some applications in accordance with the principles herein by securing them for deployment on the mobile device this arrangement may also be elected for certain applications. For example while some applications may be secured for use on the mobile device others may not be prepared or appropriate for deployment on the mobile device so the enterprise may elect to provide the mobile user access to the unprepared applications through virtualization techniques. As another example the enterprise may have large complex applications with large and complex data sets e.g. material resource planning applications where it would be very difficult or otherwise undesirable to customize the application for the mobile device so the enterprise may elect to provide access to the application through virtualization techniques. As yet another example the enterprise may have an application that maintains highly secured data e.g. human resources data customer data engineering data that may be deemed by the enterprise as too sensitive for even the secured mobile environment so the enterprise may elect to use virtualization techniques to permit mobile access to such applications and data. An enterprise may elect to provide both fully secured and fully functional applications on the mobile device as well as a virtualization application to allow access to applications that are deemed more properly operated on the server side. In an embodiment the virtualization application may store some data files etc. on the mobile phone in one of the secure storage locations. An enterprise for example may elect to allow certain information to be stored on the phone while not permitting other information.

In connection with the virtualization application as described herein the mobile device may have a virtualization application that is designed to present GUI s and then record user interactions with the GUI. The application may communicate the user interactions to the server side to be used by the server side application as user interactions with the application. In response the application on the server side may transmit back to the mobile device a new GUI. For example the new GUI may be a static page a dynamic page an animation or the like.

The applications running on the managed partition may be stabilized applications. The stabilized applications may be managed by a device manager . The device manager may monitor the stabilized applications and utilize techniques for detecting and remedying problems that would result in a destabilized application if such techniques were not utilized to detect and remedy the problems.

The secure applications may access data stored in a secure data container in the managed partition of the mobile device. The data secured in the secure data container may be accessed by the secure wrapped applications applications executed by a secure application launcher virtualization applications executed by a secure application launcher and the like. The data stored in the secure data container may include files databases and the like. The data stored in the secure data container may include data restricted to a specific secure application shared among secure applications and the like. Data restricted to a secure application may include secure general data and highly secure data . Secure general data may use a strong form of encryption such as AES 128 bit encryption or the like while highly secure data may use a very strong form of encryption such as AES 254 bit encryption. Data stored in the secure data container may be deleted from the device upon receipt of a command from the device manager . The secure applications may have a dual mode option . The dual mode option may present the user with an option to operate the secured application in an unsecured mode. In an unsecured mode the secure applications may access data stored in an unsecured data container on the unmanaged partition of the mobile device . The data stored in an unsecured data container may be personal data . The data stored in an unsecured data container may also be accessed by unsecured applications that are running on the unmanaged partition of the mobile device . The data stored in an unsecured data container may remain on the mobile device when the data stored in the secure data container is deleted from the mobile device . An enterprise may want to delete from the mobile device selected or all data files and or applications owned licensed or controlled by the enterprise enterprise data while leaving or otherwise preserving personal data files and or applications owned licensed or controlled by the user personal data . This operation may be referred to as a selective wipe. With the enterprise and personal data arranged in accordance to the aspects described herein an enterprise may perform a selective wipe.

The mobile device may connect to enterprise resources and enterprise services at an enterprise to the public Internet and the like. The mobile device may connect to enterprise resources and enterprise services through virtual private network connections. The virtual private network connections may be specific to particular applications particular devices particular secured areas on the mobile device and the like e.g. . For example each of the wrapped applications in the secured area of the phone may access enterprise resources through an application specific VPN such that access to the VPN would be granted based on attributes associated with the application possibly in conjunction with user or device attribute information. The virtual private network connections may carry Microsoft Exchange traffic Microsoft Active Directory traffic HTTP traffic HTTPS traffic application management traffic and the like. The virtual private network connections may support and enable single sign on authentication processes . The single sign on processes may allow a user to provide a single set of authentication credentials which are then verified by an authentication service . The authentication service may then grant to the user access to multiple enterprise resources without requiring the user to provide authentication credentials to each individual enterprise resource .

The virtual private network connections may be established and managed by an access gateway . The access gateway may include performance enhancement features that manage accelerate and improve the delivery of enterprise resources to the mobile device . The access gateway may also re route traffic from the mobile device to the public Internet enabling the mobile device to access publicly available and unsecured applications that run on the public Internet . The mobile device may connect to the access gateway via a transport network . The transport network may be a wired network wireless network cloud network local area network metropolitan area network wide area network public network private network and the like.

The enterprise resources may include email servers file sharing servers SaaS applications Web application servers Windows application servers and the like. Email servers may include Exchange servers Lotus Notes servers and the like. File sharing servers may include SHAREFILE servers other file sharing services and the like. SaaS applications may include Salesforce and the like. Windows application servers may include any application server that is built to provide applications that are intended to run on a local Windows operating system and the like. The enterprise resources may be premise based resources cloud based resources and the like. The enterprise resources may be accessed by the mobile device directly or through the access gateway . The enterprise resources may be accessed by the mobile device via a transport network . The transport network may be a wired network wireless network cloud network local area network metropolitan area network wide area network public network private network and the like.

The enterprise services may include authentication services threat detection services device manager services file sharing services policy manager services social integration services application controller services and the like. Authentication services may include user authentication services device authentication services application authentication services data authentication services and the like. Authentication services may use certificates. The certificates may be stored on the mobile device by the enterprise resources and the like. The certificates stored on the mobile device may be stored in an encrypted location on the mobile device the certificate may be temporarily stored on the mobile device for use at the time of authentication and the like. Threat detection services may include intrusion detection services unauthorized access attempt detection services and the like. Unauthorized access attempt detection services may include unauthorized attempts to access devices applications data and the like. Device management services may include configuration provisioning security support monitoring reporting and decommissioning services. File sharing services may include file management services file storage services file collaboration services and the like. Policy manager services may include device policy manager services application policy manager services data policy manager services and the like. Social integration services may include contact integration services collaboration services integration with social networks such as Facebook Twitter and LinkedIn and the like. Application controller services may include management services provisioning services deployment services assignment services revocation services wrapping services and the like.

The enterprise mobility technical architecture may include an application store . The application store may include unwrapped applications pre wrapped applications and the like. Applications may be populated in the application store from the application controller . The application store may be accessed by the mobile device through the access gateway through the public Internet or the like. The application store may be provided with an intuitive and easy to use user interface. The application store may provide access to a software development kit . The software development kit may provide a user the capability to secure applications selected by the user by wrapping the application as described previously in this description. An application that has been wrapped using the software development kit may then be made available to the mobile device by populating it in the application store using the application controller .

The enterprise mobility technical architecture may include a management and analytics capability. The management and analytics capability may provide information related to how resources are used how often resources are used and the like. Resources may include devices applications data and the like. How resources are used may include which devices download which applications which applications access which data and the like. How often resources are used may include how often an application has been downloaded how many times a specific set of data has been accessed by an application and the like.

In this case the left hand side represents an enrolled mobile device e.g. client etc. with a client agent which interacts with gateway server which includes access gateway and application controller functionality to access various enterprise resources and services such as Exchange Sharepoint PKI Resources Kerberos Resources and Certificate Issuance Service as shown on the right hand side above. Although not specifically shown the mobile device may also interact with an enterprise application store e.g. StoreFront for the selection and downloading of applications. Client agent may for example be a software application executing on a client device that facilitates communications with remote resources and or virtualized resources. Gateway server may for example be a server or other resource that provides access to enterprise resources and or cloud resources.

The client agent acts as the UI user interface intermediary for Windows apps desktops hosted in an Enterprise data center which are accessed using the HDX ICA display remoting protocol or any other remoting protocol. The client agent also supports the installation and management of native applications on the mobile device such as native iOS or Android applications. For example the managed applications mail browser wrapped application shown in the figure above are all native applications that execute locally on the device. Client agent and an application management framework such as MDX mobile experience technology by Citrix Systems Inc. of Fort Lauderdale Fla. other application management frameworks may also be used act to provide policy driven management capabilities and features such as connectivity and SSO single sign on to enterprise resources services . The client agent handles primary user authentication to the enterprise normally to the access gateway AG with SSO to other gateway server components. The client agent obtains policies from gateway server to control the behavior of the managed applications on the mobile device . As used herein a managed application is one that is capable of being controlled based on and operated in accordance with independently defined and communicated policy files.

The secure IPC links between the native applications and client agent represent a management channel which allows client agent to supply policies to be enforced by the application management framework wrapping each application. The IPC channel also allows client agent to supply credential and authentication information that enables connectivity and SSO to enterprise resources . Finally the IPC channel allows the application management framework to invoke user interface functions implemented by client agent such as online and offline authentication.

Communications between the client agent and gateway server are essentially an extension of the management channel from the application management framework wrapping each native managed application . The application management framework requests policy information from client agent which in turn requests it from gateway server . The application management framework requests authentication and client agent logs into the gateway services part of gateway server also known as NetScaler Access Gateway . Client agent may also call supporting services on gateway server which may produce input material to derive encryption keys for the local data vaults or provide client certificates which may enable direct authentication to PKI protected resources as more fully explained below.

In more detail the application management framework wraps each managed application . This may be incorporated via an explicit build step or via a post build processing step. The application management framework may pair with client agent on first launch of an application to initialize the secure IPC channel and obtain the policy for that application. The application management framework may enforce relevant portions of the policy that apply locally such as the client agent login dependencies and some of the containment policies that restrict how local OS services may be used or how they may interact with the application .

The application management framework may use services provided by client agent over the secure IPC channel to facilitate authentication and internal network access. Key management for the private and shared data vaults containers may be also managed by appropriate interactions between the managed applications and client agent . Vaults may be available only after online authentication or may be made available after offline authentication if allowed by policy. First use of vaults may require online authentication and offline access may be limited to at most the policy refresh period before online authentication is again required.

Network access to internal resources may occur directly from individual managed applications through access gateway . The application management framework is responsible for orchestrating the network access on behalf of each application . Client agent may facilitate these network connections by providing suitable time limited secondary credentials obtained following online authentication. Multiple modes of network connection may be used such as reverse web proxy connections and end to end VPN style tunnels .

The mail and browser managed applications have special status and may make use of facilities that might not be generally available to arbitrary wrapped applications. For example the mail application may use a special background network access mechanism that allows it to access Exchange over an extended period of time without requiring a full AD logon. The browser application may use multiple private data vaults to segregate different kinds of data.

This architecture supports the incorporation of various other security features. For example gateway server including its gateway services in some cases will not need to validate AD passwords. It can be left to the discretion of an enterprise whether an AD password is used as an authentication factor for some users in some situations. Different authentication methods may be used if a user is online or offline i.e. connected or not connected to a network .

Step up authentication is a feature wherein gateway server may identify managed native applications that are allowed to have access to highly classified data requiring strong authentication and ensure that access to these applications is only permitted after performing appropriate authentication even if this means a re authentication is required by the user after a prior weaker level of login.

Another security feature of this solution is the encryption of the data vaults containers on the mobile device . The vaults may be encrypted so that all on device data including files databases and configurations are protected. For on line vaults the keys may be stored on the server gateway server and for off line vaults a local copy of the keys may be protected by a user password. When data is stored locally on the device in the secure container it is preferred that a minimum of AES 256 encryption algorithm be utilized.

Other secure container features may also be implemented. For example a logging feature may be included wherein all security events happening inside an application are logged and reported to the backend. Data wiping may be supported such as if the application detects tampering associated encryption keys may be written over with random data leaving no hint on the file system that user data was destroyed. Screenshot protection is another feature where an application may prevent any data from being stored in screenshots. For example the key window s hidden property may be set to YES. This may cause whatever content is currently displayed on the screen to be hidden resulting in a blank screenshot where any content would normally reside.

Local data transfer may be prevented such as by preventing any data from being locally transferred outside the application container e.g. by copying it or sending it to an external application. A keyboard cache feature may operate to disable the autocorrect functionality for sensitive text fields. SSL certificate validation may be operable so the application specifically validates the server SSL certificate instead of it being stored in the keychain. An encryption key generation feature may be used such that the key used to encrypt data on the device is generated using a passphrase supplied by the user if offline access is required . It may be XORed with another key randomly generated and stored on the server side if offline access is not required. Key derivation functions may operate such that keys generated from the user password use KDFs key derivation functions notably PBKDF2 rather than creating a cryptographic hash of it. The latter makes a key susceptible to brute force or dictionary attacks.

Further one or more initialization vectors may be used in encryption methods. An initialization vector will cause multiple copies of the same encrypted data to yield different cipher text output preventing both replay and cryptanalytic attacks. This will also prevent an attacker from decrypting any data even with a stolen encryption key if the specific initialization vector used to encrypt the data is not known. Further authentication then decryption may be used wherein application data is decrypted only after the user has authenticated within the application. Another feature may relate to sensitive data in memory which may be kept in memory and not in disk only when it s needed. For example login credentials may be wiped from memory after login and encryption keys and other data inside objective C instance variables are not stored as they may be easily referenced. Instead memory may be manually allocated for these.

An inactivity timeout may be implemented wherein after a policy defined period of inactivity a user session is terminated.

Data leakage from application management framework may be prevented in other ways. For example when an application is put in the background the memory may be cleared after a predetermined configurable time period. When backgrounded a snapshot may be taken of the last displayed screen of the application to fasten the foregrounding process. The screenshot may contain confidential data and hence should be cleared.

Another security feature relates to the use of an OTP one time password without the use of an AD active directory password for access to one or more applications. In some cases some users do not know or are not permitted to know their AD password so these users may authenticate using an OTP such as by using a hardware OTP system like SecurID OTPs may be provided by different vendors also such as Entrust or Gemalto . In some cases after a user authenticates with a user ID a text is sent to the user with an OTP . In some cases this may be implemented only for online use with a prompt being a single field.

An offline password may be implemented for offline authentication for those applications for which offline use is permitted via enterprise policy. For example an enterprise may want the enterprise application store to be accessed in this manner. In this case the client agent may require the user to set a custom offline password and the AD password is not used. Gateway server may provide policies to control and enforce password standards with respect to the minimum length character class composition and age of passwords such as described by the standard Windows Server password complexity requirements although these requirements may be modified.

Another feature relates to the enablement of a client side certificate for certain applications as secondary credentials for the purpose of accessing PKI protected web resources via the application management framework micro VPN feature . For example an application such as a corporate email application may utilize such a certificate. In this case certificate based authentication using ActiveSync protocol may be supported wherein a certificate from the client agent may be retrieved by gateway server and used in a keychain. Each managed application may have one associated client certificate identified by a label that is defined in gateway server .

Gateway server may interact with an enterprise special purpose web service to support the issuance of client certificates to allow relevant managed applications to authenticate to internal PKI protected resources.

The client agent and application management framework may be enhanced to support obtaining and using client certificates for authentication to internal PKI protected network resources. More than one certificate may be supported such as to match various levels of security and or separation requirements. The certificates may be used by the mail and browser managed applications and ultimately by arbitrary wrapped applications provided those applications use web service style communication patterns where it is reasonable for application management framework to mediate HTTPS requests .

Application management framework client certificate support on iOS may rely on importing a PKCS 12 BLOB Binary Large Object into the iOS keychain in each managed application for each period of use. Application management framework client certificate support may use a HTTPS implementation with private in memory key storage. The client certificate will never be present in the iOS keychain and will not be persisted except potentially in online only data value that is strongly protected.

Mutual SSL may also be implemented to provide additional security by requiring that a mobile device is authenticated to the enterprise and vice versa. Virtual smart cards for authentication to gateway server may also be implemented.

Both limited and full Kerberos support may be additional features. The full support feature relates to an ability to do full Kerberos login to AD using an AD password or trusted client certificate and obtain Kerberos service tickets to respond to HTTP negotiate authentication challenges. The limited support feature relates to constrained delegation in AFEE where AFEE supports invoking Kerberos protocol transition so it can obtain and use Kerberos service tickets subject to constrained delegation in response to HTTP negotiate authentication challenges. This mechanism works in reverse web proxy a.k.a. CVPN mode and when HTTP but not HTTPS connections are proxied in VPN and MicroVPN mode.

Another feature relates to application container locking and wiping which may automatically occur upon jail break or rooting detections and occur as a pushed command from administration console and may include a remote wipe functionality even when an application is not running.

A multi site architecture or configuration of the enterprise application store and application controller may be supported that allows users to be service from one of several different locations in case of failure.

In some cases managed applications may be allowed to access a certificate and private key via an API example OpenSSL . Trusted managed applications of an enterprise may be allowed to perform specific Public Key operations with an application s client certificate and private key. Various use cases may be identified and treated accordingly such as when an application behaves like a browser and no certificate access is required when an application reads a certificate for who am I when an application uses the certificate to build a secure session token and when an application uses private keys for digital signing of important data e.g. transaction log or for temporary data encryption.

Having discussed several examples of the computing architecture and the enterprise mobility management architecture that may be used in providing and or implementing various aspects of the disclosure a number of embodiments will now be discussed in greater detail. In particular and as introduced above some aspects of the disclosure generally relate to providing a managed browser. In the description below various examples illustrating how a managed browser may be provided in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser e.g. by opening and or otherwise initiating execution of a managed browser . In one or more embodiments the managed browser may be a web browser that is configured to provide one or more enterprise security features e.g. mobile device management features mobile application management features policy acquisition and enforcement features etc. . Additionally or alternatively the managed browser may extend various enterprise security features for use with mobile device applications that may be configured to run within the browser. For example an enterprise may require some or all of its employees and or other users to install and use the managed browser on their respective mobile devices in a bring your own device BYOD scheme to reduce enterprise security risks. In addition the managed browser can for instance be used to enable mobile device users to access a corporate intranet and or other enterprise resources without connecting to a virtual private network VPN . For instance the managed browser may implement and or provide application tunneling functionalities such as those discussed in greater detail below to enable such access to a corporate intranet and or other enterprise resources.

In one or more embodiments the managed browser may additionally or alternatively be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource. For example in addition to being configured to obtain data from an enterprise resource e.g. a server or database connected to and or otherwise part of an enterprise network the managed browser may be further configured to securely cache the obtained data e.g. in one or more local caches which may be encrypted using one or more encryption protocols . Additionally or alternatively the managed browser may be further configured to provide secure browsing of the obtained data e.g. by controlling and providing access to the obtained data based on validation of one or more authentication credentials based on compliance with and or enforcement of one or more mobile device management and or mobile application management policies etc. .

In one or more embodiments the managed browser may be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser. The one or more policies may for instance be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser. For example the one or more policies may selectively restrict the types of information that can be accessed using the managed browser the resources e.g. enterprise resources network resources etc. that can be accessed using the managed browser the users that can access information using the managed browser the times at which the managed browser can be used to access specific types of information the locations at which the managed browser can be used to access specific types of information and or other may impose other restrictions. In some arrangements at least one policy of the one or more policies may limit and or otherwise restrict application tunneling functionalities of the managed browser as discussed below. Additionally or alternatively the managed browser may be configured to provide at least one unmanaged mode in which the one or more policies which e.g. may be applied to the browser in the managed mode might not be applied to the managed browser such that the managed browser may operate without the restrictions that might be imposed by the one or more policies.

In step a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser may be received. For example in step the computing device may receive a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser. Such a request may for instance be based on and or correspond to user input received by the computing device via the managed browser e.g. based on a user selecting a link and or otherwise requesting access to a network resource using the managed browser .

In step at least one application tunnel may be created from the managed browser to the one or more enterprise resources. For example in step the computing device may create and or otherwise establish one or more VPN style tunnels to enterprise servers and or other enterprise resources that may for instance enable the managed browser to securely access and obtain enterprise data from the enterprise servers and or other enterprise resources. In one or more arrangements application tunneling may include techniques in which one network protocol e.g. the delivery protocol encapsulates a different network protocol. By using application tunneling a secure path may be provided through an untrusted network.

In some embodiments creating the at least one application tunnel may include creating a first application tunnel from the managed browser to a first enterprise resource and creating a second application tunnel from the managed browser to a second enterprise resource where the second enterprise resource is different from the first enterprise resource. For example in creating one or more application tunnels e.g. in step the computing device may create a different individual application tunnel for each enterprise resource that may be accessed by the managed browser. In some instances the first enterprise resource may have a first security level and the second enterprise resource may have a second security level different from the first security level. For example the second enterprise resource may have a higher security level than the first enterprise resource and additional authentication credentials and or more secure access protocols and or encryption methods may be needed to access the second enterprise resource e.g. as compared to accessing the first enterprise resource .

In some embodiments the at least one application tunnel may be created e.g. in step based on one or more policies that may be applied to the managed browser. For example in creating the at least one application tunnel the managed browser and or the computing device on which the managed browser is running may create the at least one application tunnel in accordance with one or more policies that may be applied to the managed browser and or may selectively limit and or otherwise restrict the managed browser s ability to create and or use application tunnels. For example at least one policy of the one or more policies may selectively restrict the types of information that can be accessed using an application tunnel the resources that can be accessed using an application tunnel the users that can access information using an application tunnel the times at which the managed browser can create an application tunnel the locations at which the managed browser can create an application tunnel and or other may impose other restrictions.

In step enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources may be obtained via the at least one application tunnel. For example in step the computing device may obtain enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources via the application tunnel s created in step . In addition to obtaining the enterprise data the computing device also may provide access to the obtained enterprise data via the managed browser e.g. by causing some or all of the obtained enterprise data to be displayed in the managed browser .

In some embodiments one or more policies may be applied to the managed browser. In addition the one or more policies may be configured to limit at least one function of the managed browser. For example the one or more policies may define certain circumstances in which certain function s of the managed browser are to be selectively disabled and the computing device may detect and or otherwise identify these circumstances e.g. based on device state information as discussed below and subsequently disable the function s in accordance with the one or more policies. Some examples of the functions of the managed browser that may be limited by a policy in some instances include cut and paste functions instant messaging functions and video chat functions. While these functions are listed here as examples of the functions that may be limited in some instances other functions may be similarly limited in other instances.

In some embodiments one or more policies may be applied to the managed browser and at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to limit usage of the obtained enterprise data. For example the one or more policies may define certain circumstances in which the enterprise data e.g. the enterprise data obtained via the application tunnel s by the computing device and or the managed browser in step can only be used in certain ways and the computing device may detect and or otherwise identify these circumstances e.g. based on device state information as discussed below and subsequently restrict and or otherwise control the way s in which the data can be used in accordance with the one or more policies. For instance at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to limit the circumstances in which the obtained enterprise data can be copied and pasted e.g. from the managed browser into another application . As another example at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to limit the circumstances in which the obtained enterprise data can be saved or printed e.g. by the managed browser and or by the computing device .

In some embodiments at least one policy of the one or more policies may depend on device state information. For example the limit s on the function s of the managed browser e.g. as imposed by the one or more policies and or the limit s on the way s in which enterprise data may be used by the managed browser e.g. as additionally or alternatively imposed by the one or more policies may be depend on state information that is indicative of the current state of the computing device. Such state information may for instance be collected and or monitored by a mobile resource management MRM agent that is configured to run on the computing device e.g. as a background application service or process and which may for instance incorporate one or more aspects of client agent discussed above . The MRM agent may for instance provide and or be configured to provide mobile device management MDM functionalities mobile application management MAM functionalities and or other functionalities. For example the MRM agent may be configured to collect and or monitor device level state information such as state information that is indicative of the operating systems and or applications that are stored on and or running on the device state information that is indicative of the network connections that are available to and or being used by the device and or state information that is indicative of the current location of where the device is located and or being used e.g. in terms of geographic coordinates in terms of semantic labels such as home or work etc. . While these types of state information are listed here as examples of the types of state information that may be collected and or monitored e.g. by the MRM agent by one or more other applications or services or processes on the computing device etc. in some instances additional and or alternative types of state information may be similarly collected and or monitored in other instances. In addition any and or all of this state information may be used e.g. by the computing device and or by the managed browser in applying and or enforcing policies on the managed browser such as the policies discussed above.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser similar to how such a managed browser may be loaded in step discussed above . The managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser as discussed above. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In step a connection to at least one other computing device may be established to initiate a device cloud. For example in step the computing device may establish a network connection to one or more other computing devices to initiate a device cloud. In one or more arrangements a device cloud may for instance enable two or more computing devices to be used in combination with each other to perform a single function or task. In typical instances the devices may be used by the same user and or both may be located near each other e.g. within a predetermined distance of each other and or near the user e.g. within a predetermined distance of the user . In some instances a device cloud may be used to provide a function that is not supported by one of the user s devices but is supported by another one of the user s devices. For example a user of a laptop computer may wish to conduct a video conference with another person but the laptop computer might not include a camera. If the user also has a smart phone or other computing device that includes a camera however a device cloud may be used to dynamically link the functionalities provided by the two devices so that they may be used in providing the video conference. In particular in this example a device cloud may be established such that the user s smart phone may be used as a video input device for the video conference which may e.g. be facilitated by a video conferencing plug in applet web application etc. that may be running within the managed browser while the user s laptop computer can be used to perform other functions that may be involved in conducting the video conference e.g. establishing the connection to the other person s device s providing text based chat functionalities etc. . While this example illustrates some ways in which a device cloud may be used to extend the functionalities of one or more devices in some embodiments such a device cloud may be used in other ways to extend additional and or alternative functionalities of various devices in other embodiments.

In step a session of the managed browser may be extended across the device cloud. For example in step the computing device may extend a session of the managed browser e.g. a current session of the managed browser with which a user of the computing device is interacting across the device cloud e.g. the device cloud created in step . In one or more arrangements extending the session of the managed browser across the device cloud may include causing at least one other managed browser to be loaded on the at least one other computing device and sharing session data with the at least one other managed browser. For example in extending a session of the managed browser across the device cloud the computing device may initially cause instance s of the managed browser to be loaded on the other device s participating in the device cloud. Subsequently the computing device may share session data with the instance s of the managed browser that are running on the other device s participating in the device cloud. In sharing such session data the computing device may for instance send some or all of the information that is currently being used and or displayed by the managed browser on the computing device which may include enterprise data and or non enterprise data. Additionally or alternatively in sharing session data with the instance s of the managed browser that are running on the other device s participating in the device cloud the computing device may receive information that may be subsequently displayed and or otherwise used by the managed browser on the computing device.

In some embodiments one or more policies may be applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit at least one function of the managed browser. For example the computing device and or software running on the computing device such as an MRM agent may apply one or more policies to the managed browser that are configured to limit function s of the managed browser as discussed above.

In some embodiments one or more policies may be applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit the device cloud. For example the computing device and or software running on the computing device such as an MRM agent may in some instances apply one or more policies to the managed browser that are configured limit various aspects of the device cloud e.g. the device cloud created in step . In some instances in which the one or more policies are configured to limit the device cloud at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to allocate at least one role to the at least one other computing device. For example in instances in which the one or more policies are configured to limit the device cloud the computing device and or the software running on the computing device may define apply and or enforce at least one policy that is configured to allocate particular role s in the device cloud to the other computing device s that are participating in the device cloud. For instance in the example discussed above involving a video conference the mobile device management policies may allocate a video capturing role to the smart phone involved in the device cloud and the mobile device management policies may allocate a connection maintenance role to the laptop computer involved in the device cloud.

In some embodiments the connection to the at least one other computing device may be established based on at least one policy of the one or more policies that may be applied to the managed browser. For example in establishing the connection to the at least one other computing device the managed browser and or the computing device on which the managed browser is running may connect to and or exchange data with the at least one other computing device in accordance with one or more policies that may be applied to the managed browser. For instance the one or more policies may define certain circumstances in which the managed browser s ability to initiate the device cloud may be selectively enabled selectively disabled and or otherwise restricted. For example at least one policy of the one or more policies may selectively restrict the types of information that can be exchanged with the other computing device s the users that can access information exchanged with the other computing device s the times at which the managed browser can exchange information with the other computing device s the locations at which the managed browser can exchange information with the other computing device s and or other may impose other restrictions. Any and or all of these restrictions may limit the circumstances in which the computing device can establish a connection to the at least one other computing device and or may otherwise limit the circumstances in which the device cloud can be initiated.

In some embodiments establishing the connection to the at least one other computing device may include evaluating state information associated with the at least one other computing device and determining based on the evaluated state information to allow the at least one other computing device to participate in the device cloud. For example in establishing the connection to the at least one other computing device e.g. in step the computing device may obtain and or evaluate state information associated with the at least one other computing device. Such state information may for instance describe various aspects of the current device state of the at least one other computing device such as the applications that may be installed and or running on the at least one other computing device the networks to which the at least one other computing device is connected to the location of the at least one other computing device and or other considerations. Subsequently the computing device may determine based on evaluating this state information whether to allow the at least one other computing device to participate in the device cloud. Such a determination may for instance be based on one or more policies. For example one or more policies may dictate that the computing device may allow the at least one other computing device to participate in the device cloud if the state information associated with the at least one other computing device indicates that the device is or is not located in a certain location does or does not have certain applications installed and or running on the device is or is not connected to one or more specific networks and or the like.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser similar to how such a managed browser may be loaded in step discussed above . The managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser as discussed above. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In one or more arrangements the managed browser may be a dual mode application that has a managed mode and an unmanaged mode. In addition the managed mode of the managed browser may be configured to provide access to enterprise data and the unmanaged mode of the managed browser may be configured to limit access to enterprise data. For example in the managed mode the managed browser may apply specific content filters restrict specific downloads and or block specific plug ins whereas in the unmanaged mode the managed browser might not apply such filters restrict such downloads and or block such plug ins. In some instances the computing device and or other software running on the computing device e.g. an MRM agent may selectively disable the managed mode of the managed browser as discussed below such that the managed browser might only be able to run and or continue running in the unmanaged mode e.g. until the managed mode of the managed browser is re enabled by the computing device and or by the other appropriate software running on the computing device .

In step device state information may be obtained. For example in step the computing device may obtain state information that is indicative of the current state of the computing device. In some instances such state information may be obtained by an MRM agent running on the computing device such as the MRM agent discussed in the examples above.

In some embodiments the device state information may include information identifying one or more applications that are present on the computing device. For example in obtaining device state information e.g. in step the computing device and or the MRM agent running on the computing device may inspect one or more storage devices which may e.g. be connected to and or otherwise accessible to the computing device and or installation logs which may e.g. be maintained by the computing device to determine what application s are stored on the computing device installed on the computing device previously run on the computing device and or currently running on the computing device.

In some embodiments the device state information may include information identifying one or more network connections that are used by the computing device. For example in obtaining device state information e.g. in step the computing device and or the MRM agent running on the computing device may inspect one or more network interfaces and or other network devices which may e.g. be connected to and or otherwise usable by the computing device and or one or more connection logs which may e.g. be maintained by the computing device to determine what network s are accessible to and or in range of the computing device what network s that computing device has previously connected to and or what network s the computing device is currently connected to.

In some embodiments the device state information may include information identifying a current location of the computing device. For example in obtaining device state information e.g. in step the computing device and or the MRM agent running on the computing device may determine and or cause one or more other components e.g. a GPS receiver other positioning components etc. and or devices to determine a current position of the computing device. In some instances the location information may include geographic coordinates that are indicative of the current position of the computing device. In some instances the location information may include semantic labels that are indicative of the current position of the computing device relative to one or more user specific landmarks e.g. home or work . Any and or all of this location may for instance be used by the computing device and or by the MRM agent running on the computing device in applying and or enforcing one or more location based mobile device management policies.

In step it may be determined based on the device state information whether to selectively disable one or more operational modes of the managed browser. For example in step the computing device may determine based on the device state information obtained in step whether to selectively disable one or more operational modes of the managed browser. As discussed above the managed browser may in some instances be a dual mode application that has a managed mode and an unmanaged mode. Thus in some instances the computing device may in step determine whether to selectively disable the managed mode of the managed browser based on the device state information obtained in step . For example the computing device may determine whether to selectively disable the managed mode of the managed browser based on information identifying one or more applications that are present on the computing device information identifying one or more network connections that are used by the computing device and or information identifying a current location of the computing device. In some instances the computing device may additionally or alternatively evaluate one or more policies in combination with the device state information in determining whether to selectively disable a mode of the managed browser e.g. the managed mode of the managed browser .

If it is determined in step not to disable one or more operational modes of the managed browser then the method may end. Additionally or alternatively the method may continue in a loop such that steps and may be periodically repeated e.g. to obtain updated device state information and or reevaluate the updated device state information to determine whether to selectively disable one or more operational modes of the managed browser .

On the other hand if it is determined in step to selectively disable at least one operational mode of the managed browser then in step the at least one operational mode of the managed browser may be disabled. For example in step the computing device may disable the at least one operational mode of the managed browser e.g. the mode s determined to be disabled in step and or cause the at least one operational mode of the managed browser to be disabled. In instances in which the managed browser is a dual mode application that has a managed mode and an unmanaged mode the managed mode may for example be disabled by the computing device and or be caused to be disabled by the computing device in step .

In some embodiments causing the at least one managed mode to be disabled may include causing the managed browser to enter a second mode different from the at least one managed mode. For example in disabling the managed mode of the managed mode of the managed browser and or otherwise causing the managed mode of the managed browser to be disabled e.g. in step the computing device may cause the managed browser to enter a second mode that is different from the managed mode that the managed browser was previously operating in. In some instances the second mode may be another managed mode that is simply different from the managed mode that the managed browser was previously operating in e.g. because different policies are applied to the managed browser . In other words the second mode may in some instances be a managed mode in which a second set of one or more policies is applied to the managed browser where the second set of one or more policies includes at least one policy different from the one or more policies that are applied to the managed browser in the at least one managed mode.

In other instances the second mode which e.g. the managed browser may enter after the at least one managed mode is disabled may be an unmanaged mode in which the managed browser is no longer managed by at least one device manager. For example in disabling the managed mode of the managed browser and or otherwise causing the managed mode of the managed browser to be disabled e.g. in step the computing device may cause the managed browser to enter an unmanaged mode such as the unmanaged mode discussed above in which the managed browser might not be managed by at least one device manager. Such a device manager may for instance be a mobile resource management agent that is running on the device and is configured to apply and or enforce one or more policies on the managed browser and or other applications services and or functions of the device.

In some embodiments access to one or more resources may be blocked in the unmanaged mode. For example after entering the unmanaged mode the managed browser and or the computing device may block access to specific resources such as specific enterprise resources. Such block may for instance prevent a user of the managed browser from accessing enterprise resources and or other specific resources while the managed browser is operating in an unmanaged mode in which policy enforcement monitoring and or other security features might not be applied and or available to ensure the security of enterprise information that might otherwise be accessed using the managed browser. In addition to blocking access to remotely stored information in remote enterprise resources the managed browser and or the computing device also may in the unmanaged mode block access to specific information that may be cached locally on the device. For example during the unmanaged mode such blocking may prevent the managed browser from accessing locally cached data that was originally obtained from enterprise resources such as locally cached enterprise application store information and or other locally cached enterprise information.

In some embodiments the managed browser may be configured to transition from the unmanaged mode back to the at least one managed mode based on updated device state information. For example after entering the unmanaged mode the managed browser and or the computing device may be configured to monitor and periodically reevaluate current device state information to determine whether the managed browser can reenter the managed mode e.g. in which one or more policies may be applied to the managed browser the managed browser may be managed by the device manager etc. . If for instance the managed browser and or the computing device determines that specific circumstances are satisfied for instance based on the state information the computing device may cause the managed browser to switch back to the managed mode. In some instances in determining whether the managed browser can reenter the managed mode the computing device and or the managed browser may for instance evaluate the current device state information in view of one or more policies which may include the one or more policies that were evaluated in determining to switch the managed browser to the unmanaged mode in the first place.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser similar to how such a managed browser may be loaded in step discussed above . The managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser as discussed above. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In step one or more policies may be received. For example in step the computing device may receive one or more policies. The one or more policies may for instance be mobile device management policies that define permitted prohibited and or restricted functions based on different sets of circumstances that may be evaluated using device state information e.g. device state information that is obtained and or monitored by the computing device and or by an MRM agent running on the computing device . Thus the policies may be used in enforcing device state based behavior limitations on various functions including various functions of the managed browser.

In some embodiments the one or more policies may be received from a policy server. For example in receiving the policies the computing device may in step connect to and or receive a number of policies from a policy server. The policy server may for instance be part of an enterprise network infrastructure and may be connected to and or included in one or more enterprise resources that may be accessed by the managed browser in accordance with the policies that are received e.g. by the computing device in step .

In step the one or more policies may be applied to the managed browser. For example in step the computing device may application the one or more policies e.g. as received in step to the managed browser such that certain functions of the managed browser may be selectively enabled and or disabled e.g. based on device state information being obtained and or monitored by the computing device and or by an MRM agent running on the computing device .

In some embodiments the one or more policies may be applied to the managed browser based on identity information associated with a user of the computing device. For example in applying the one or more policies to the managed browser e.g. in step the computing device may request and or obtain identity information associated with a current user of the computing device. Such identity information may for instance be obtained via one or more authentication prompts that are configured to prompt the user to provide his or her login information and or other authentication credentials. By applying policies to the managed browser based on identity information the specific functions that are selectively enabled disabled and or restricted e.g. by the one or more policies being applied to the managed browser for the current user of the managed browser and or the computing device may be more particularly tailored to the current user in view of their identity.

In some embodiments the one or more policies may be applied to the managed browser based on role information associated with a user of the computing device. For example in applying the one or more policies to the managed browser e.g. in step the computing device may request and or obtain identity information and or role information associated with a current user of the computing device. The role information may for instance specify the role s of the current user within the enterprise e.g. sales engineering legal accounting executive etc. . In some instances the computing device may for example determine role information for the current user of the computing device based on identity information for the current user of the computing device e.g. by using the identity information to access and or look up role information for the user in one or more databases directories and or enterprise resources . By applying policies to the managed browser based on role information the specific functions that are selectively enabled disabled and or restricted e.g. by the one or more policies being applied to the managed browser for the current user of the managed browser and or the computing device may be more particularly tailored to the needs of and or access level of the current user in view their role s within the enterprise.

For example in applying one or more policies to the managed browser based on role information in the context of a healthcare enterprise such as a hospital the computing device may determine whether the current user of the computing device is a doctor or a nurse e.g. by obtaining and or analyzing identity information for the current user of the computing device . If the computing device determines that the current user of the computing device is a doctor the computing device may apply a first set of policies to the managed browser and if the computing device determines that the current user of the computing device is a nurse the computing device may apply a second set of policies to the managed browser that is different from the first set of policies. In particular the second set of policies may for instance selectively enable disable and or restrict additional and or alternative functions of the managed browser than the first set of policies based on the differences between the nurse s role in the healthcare enterprise and the doctor s role in the healthcare enterprise. For example as a result of the policies that are applied to the managed browser the doctor may for instance be able to use the managed browser on the computing device to access specific resources that the nurse might not be able to access.

As another example in applying one or more policies to the managed browser based on role information in the context of a legal enterprise such as a law firm the computing device may determine whether the current user of the computing device is an attorney or other professional within a group of professionals that has been screened from specific cases and or other matters being handling by the law firm. If the computing device determines that the current user of the computing device is within the group of professionals that has been screened then the computing device map apply a first set of policies to the managed browser and if the computing device determines that the current user of the computing device is not within the group of professionals that has been screened then the computing device may apply a second set of policies to the managed browser that is different from the first set of policies. In particular the second set of policies may for instance selectively enable disable and or restrict additional and or alternative functions of the managed browser than the first set of policies based on the differences between certain professionals roles in the legal enterprise. For example as a result of the policies that are applied to the managed browser certain lawyers may be able to use the managed browser on the computing device to access specific resources that other lawyers within the law firm might not be able to access.

In some embodiments applying the one or more policies to the managed browser may include controlling access to one or more enterprise resources that are accessible via the managed browser. For example in applying the one or more policies to the managed browser e.g. in step the computing device may control access to the enterprise resource s that can be accessed using the managed browser. In particular at least one policy of the one or more policies may for instance selectively enable disable and or limit access to particular enterprise resource s such as particular databases servers and or other enterprise resources which may e.g. be connected to and or part of an enterprise infrastructure . Additionally or alternatively such a policy may for instance depend on device state information which may e.g. include information identifying one or more applications that are present on the computing device information identifying one or more network connections that are used by the computing device and or information identifying a current location of the computing device such that access to particular enterprise resource s may be controlled based on the current state of the computing device.

In some embodiments applying the one or more policies to the managed browser may include controlling use of information obtained from one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser. For example in applying the one or more policies to the managed browser e.g. in step the computing device may control how information obtained from the enterprise resource s such as information obtained from the enterprise resource s using the managed browser can be used e.g. by the managed browser and or by other applications services and or processes on the computing device . In particular at least one policy of the one or more policies may for instance selectively allow prohibit and or otherwise restrict the ability to save information obtained from the enterprise resource s the ability to print information obtained from the enterprise resource s the ability to cut copy and or paste information obtained from the enterprise resource s the ability to edit information obtained from the enterprise resource s and or other abilities to interact with and or use the information obtained from the enterprise resource s . Additionally or alternatively such a policy may for instance depend on device state information which may e.g. include information identifying one or more applications that are present on the computing device information identifying one or more network connections that are used by the computing device and or information identifying a current location of the computing device such that usage of particular information obtained from the enterprise resource s may be controlled based on the current state of the computing device.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser similar to how such a managed browser may be loaded in step discussed above . The managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser as discussed above. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In step a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser may be received. For example in step the computing device may receive a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser. Such a request may for instance be based on and or correspond to user input received by the computing device via the managed browser e.g. based on a user selecting a link and or otherwise requesting access to a network resource using the managed browser .

In step enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources may be obtained based on the request. For example in step the computing device may connect to request and subsequently receive and or otherwise obtain information from the one or more enterprise resources based on the request received in step .

In step the obtained enterprise data may be stored in a secure document container. For example in step the computing device may store the enterprise data obtained in step in a secure document container. In one or more arrangements the secure document container may be a data repository on the computing device that is configured to securely store enterprise data received by the computing device from one or more enterprise resources. Additionally or alternatively one or more mobile device management policies may define certain circumstances in which access to the secure document container is to be restricted modified and or otherwise controlled and the computing device and or an MRM agent running on the computing device may detect these circumstances based on device state information and subsequently restrict modify and or otherwise control access to the secure document container in accordance with the policies. In other instances other aspects of the secure document container e.g. other than access to the secure document container may be similarly controlled by one or more mobile device management policies.

In step access to the secure document container may be provided via the managed browser. For example in step the computing device may provide access to the secure document container via the managed browser. In providing access to the secure document container via the managed browser the computing device may for instance cause the managed browser to display and or otherwise present one or more user interfaces that are configured to allow the enterprise data and or other information stored in the secure document container to be viewed edited and or otherwise accessed. For instance in step the computing device may cause the managed browser to display and or otherwise present one or more user interfaces that allow a user of the computing device to browse the information stored in the secure document container view particular files and or other information stored in the secure document container edit the information stored in the secure document container delete the information stored in the secure document container and or otherwise interact with and or access the information that is stored in the secure document container.

In step data may be selectively wiped from the secure document container. For example in step the computing device may selectively wipe and or otherwise delete information from the secure document container. In one or more arrangements the computing device may selectively wipe data from the secure document container based on device state information one or more policies and or other factors and or circumstances that may be evaluated and or detected by the computing device and or by an MRM agent running on the computing device. In some instances the computing device may wipe some data from the secure document container such as the enterprise data obtained in step while leaving other data such as other data including other enterprise data which may be stored in the secure document container. In other instances the computing device may wipe data from the secure document container that was received and or stored during a certain time period e.g. within the last four hours while leaving other data e.g. data that was received and or stored during a different time period . In still other instances the computing device may wipe data from the secure document container that was received and or stored in connection with the managed browser and or a particular session of the managed browser while leaving other data e.g. data that is associated with other applications and or other session s of the managed browser .

In some embodiments selectively wiping data from the secure document container may include deleting the enterprise data obtained from the one or more enterprise resources based on the request. For example in selectively wiping data from the secure document container e.g. in step the computing device may delete the enterprise data obtained from the enterprise resource s in step . In deleting this enterprise data the computing device may for instance delete the enterprise data obtained during the particular browsing session s in which the enterprise data was obtained as well as any other information that may have been obtained during these browsing session s while leaving and or otherwise preserving other data that may be stored in the secure document container which e.g. may have been obtained during other browsing session s may be associated with other application s etc. .

In some embodiments data may be selectively wiped from the secure document container when the managed browser is closed. For example the computing device may in some instances selectively wipe data from the secure document container in response to and or otherwise based on the managed browser being closed e.g. when a user of the computing device closes the managed browser when a user of the computing devices closes a tab of the managed browser and or otherwise closes a particular session of the managed browser when the managed browser is closed or caused to be closed by another application service or process on the computing device such as an MRM agent running on the computing device etc. .

In some embodiments data may be selectively wiped from the secure document container based on one or more policies. For example the computing device may in some instances selectively wipe data from the secure document container based on one or more mobile device management policies. For instance one or more mobile device management policies may define certain circumstances in which certain type s of data are to be selectively wiped from the secure document container and the computing device and or an MRM agent running on the computing device may detect these circumstances based on device state information and subsequently wipe data from the secure document container in accordance with the policies. For example based on device state information which may e.g. include information identifying one or more applications that are present on the computing device information identifying one or more network connections that are used by the computing device and or information identifying a current location of the computing device the computing device and or an MRM agent running on the computing device may selectively wipe enterprise data from the secure document container that was obtained from one or more enterprise resources using the managed browser e.g. in step and subsequently stored in the secure document container e.g. in step .

In some embodiments data may be selectively wiped from the secure document container based on the one or more policies that are applied to the managed browser when the managed browser is operating in the managed mode. For example the computing device may in some instances selectively wipe data from the secure document container based on the one or more policies that are applied to the managed browser in the managed mode and at least one such policy may define specific circumstances in which specific data which may e.g. have been obtained using the managed browser should be selectively deleted from the secure document container. In addition these specific circumstances may be detected by the computing device and or by an MRM agent running on the computing device based on device state information as in the examples discussed above.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser similar to how such a managed browser may be loaded in step discussed above . The managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser as discussed above. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In step a single sign on SSO credential that is associated with at least one user account may be received. For example in step the computing device may receive a single sign on credential and the single sign on credential may be linked to and or otherwise associated with a particular user of the computing device and or a particular user account which may e.g. be utilized in accessing and or using the computing device and or other resources such as enterprise resources and or other network resources . In one or more arrangements the single sign on credential may be an authentication credential that is configured to be used in accessing at least two different enterprise resources e.g. various enterprise websites databases servers other resources etc. . Additionally or alternatively the single sign on credential may be received when the user is logging into a user account on the computing device logging into an application on the computing device logging into a website being accessed via the computing device interacting with an authentication prompt presented on the computing device and or in other ways. In some instances the single sign on credential may be received via the managed browser for example in connection with a request or attempt to access one or more enterprise resources and or other resources or information using the managed browser.

In step enterprise data from one or more enterprise resources may be obtained based on the SSO credential. For example in step the computing device may connect to request and subsequently receive and or otherwise obtain information from one or more enterprise resources using the SSO credential received in step . In some instances the SSO credential may for instance be used in authenticating with the enterprise resources requesting rights controlled information from the enterprise resources and or otherwise receiving the enterprise data from the enterprise resources. For example in obtaining enterprise data from one or more enterprise resources the computing device may initiate a connection to a specific enterprise resource which may challenge the managed browser to provide authentication information. In response to the challenge the managed browser may provide the SSO credential e.g. as received in step to the enterprise resource in order to authenticate with the enterprise resource and or obtain information from the enterprise resource.

In step access to the obtained enterprise data may be provided via the managed browser. For example in step the computing device may provide access to the enterprise data obtained in step via the managed browser. In providing access to the obtained enterprise data via the managed browser the computing device may for instance cause the managed browser to display and or otherwise present one or more user interfaces that are configured to allow the enterprise data to be viewed edited and or otherwise accessed. For instance in step the computing device may cause the managed browser to display and or otherwise present one or more user interfaces that allow a user of the computing device to browse the obtained enterprise data view the obtained enterprise data edit the obtained enterprise data delete the obtained enterprise data and or otherwise interact with and or access the obtained enterprise data.

In some embodiments in obtaining enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources based on the SSO credential the computing device and or the managed browser running on the computing device may depending on one or more policies and or device state information respond to one or more authentication challenges which may e.g. be presented by one or more enterprise resources using the SSO credential without user involvement. For instance such an authentication challenge may be automatically addressed by the managed browser and or the computing device using the SSO credential based on one or more policies and or device state information. In addition the specific authentication challenges and or types of authentication challenges that may be automatically addressed in this manner may change depending on the one or more policies and or the current context of the device which may e.g. be indicated by device state information as in the examples discussed above .

Thus in one or more embodiments obtaining the enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources based on the SSO credential e.g. in step may include receiving an authentication challenge from at least one enterprise resource of the one or more enterprise resources determining based on at least one policy of the one or more policies whether to provide the SSO credential to the at least one enterprise resource in response to the authentication challenge and based on determining to provide the SSO credential to the at least one enterprise resource in response to the authentication challenge providing the SSO credential to the at least one enterprise resource. For example in obtaining enterprise data from one or more enterprise resources using the SSO credential e.g. in step the computing device and or the managed browser running on the computing device may receive an authentication challenge from an enterprise resource which the managed browser may e.g. be attempting to access . Such an authentication challenge may for instance typically require a user to provide one or more authentication credentials in order to access the corresponding resource.

After receiving the authentication challenge the computing device and or the managed browser running on the computing device may determine based on one or more policies whether to provide the SSO credential to the enterprise resource to respond to the authentication challenge. For instance the computing device and or the managed browser may such a determination on one or more policies that define specific circumstances in which the managed browser can automatically respond to such an authentication challenge using the SSO credential. In addition the computing device and or the managed browser may evaluate these circumstances based on device state information similar to how such device state information may be evaluated in the examples discussed above. If the computing device and or the managed browser determines in view of the one or more policies and or the device state information that the SSO credential can be provided to the enterprise resource to respond to the authentication challenge then the computing device and or the managed browser may provide the SSO credential to the enterprise resource. For instance the computing device and or the managed browser may send the SSO credential which may e.g. have been received in step to the enterprise resource in order to automatically respond to the authentication challenge which in turn may enable the computing device and or the managed browser to access information from and or stored by the enterprise resource. In addition the computing device and or the managed browser may send the SSO credential in this way without user involvement. For example the computing device and or the managed browser may send the SSO credential without prompting the user to provide any authentication credentials and or without even notifying the user that the SSO credential is being provided to the enterprise resource. Alternatively if the computing device and or the managed browser determines in view of the one or more policies and or the device state information that the SSO credential cannot be provided to the enterprise resource to respond to the authentication challenge then the computing device and or the managed browser may prompt the user to provide one or more authentication credentials which may then e.g. be used by the computing device and or the managed browser in responding to the authentication challenge . Thus in one or more embodiments based on determining not to provide the SSO credential to the at least one enterprise resource in response to the authentication challenge the computing device and or the managed browser running on the computing device may generate an authentication prompt that is configured to receive at least one authentication credential from a user of the computing device.

In some embodiments providing access to the obtained enterprise data via the managed browser may include enforcing one or more policies based on the SSO credential. For example in providing access to the obtained enterprise data and or enforcing policies based on the SSO credential the computing device may obtain one or more policies based on the SSO credential e.g. by downloading receiving and or otherwise obtaining one or more policies from a policy server and or other enterprise resources based on the SSO credential select applicable policies based on the SSO credential e.g. by selectively activating deactivating and or enforcing policies that are applicable to and or appropriate for the current user of the computing device in view of the identity information that may be associated with the SSO credential and or impose one or more behavior limitations on the managed browser in accordance with the policies e.g. by enforcing behavior limitations on the managed browser that may be applicable to and or appropriate for the identity and or role of the user in view of the SSO credential the one or more policies and or device state information .

In some embodiments in which one or more policies are enforced based on the SSO credential the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser. For example the one or more policies may define certain circumstances in which certain function s of the managed browser are to be selectively disabled for certain users and the computing device may detect and or otherwise identify these circumstances e.g. based on device state information and subsequently disable the function s in accordance with the one or more policies and based on the SSO credential received in step . As discussed above some examples of the functions of the managed browser that may be limited by a policy in some instances include cut and paste functions instant messaging functions and video chat functions. In addition while these functions are listed here as examples of the functions that may be limited in some instances other functions may be similarly limited in other instances.

In some embodiments in which one or more policies are enforced based on the SSO credential the one or more policies may be configured to limit access to the obtained enterprise data. For example the one or more policies may define certain circumstances in which the enterprise data e.g. the enterprise data obtained in step can only be accessed and or used in certain ways and the computing device may detect and or otherwise identify these circumstances e.g. based on device state information and subsequently restrict and or otherwise control the way s in which the data can be accessed and or used in accordance with the one or more policies and based on the SSO credential received in step . For instance at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to limit the circumstances in which the obtained enterprise data can be copied and pasted e.g. from the managed browser into another application . As another example at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to limit the circumstances in which the obtained enterprise data can be saved or printed e.g. by the managed browser and or by the computing device .

In some embodiments in which one or more policies are enforced based on the SSO credential enforcement of at least one policy of the one or more policies may depend on device state information. For example the limit s on the function s of the managed browser e.g. as imposed by the one or more policies and or the limit s on the way s in which enterprise data may be accessed and or used by the managed browser e.g. as additionally or alternatively imposed by the one or more policies may be depend on state information that is indicative of the current state of the computing device. Such state information may for instance be collected and or monitored by an MRM agent as in the examples discussed above that is configured to run on the computing device e.g. as a background application service or process . For example the MRM agent may be configured to collect and or monitor device level state information such as state information that is indicative of the operating systems and or applications that are stored on and or running on the device state information that is indicative of the network connections that are available to and or being used by the device and or state information that is indicative of the current location of where the device is located and or being used. In addition any and or all of this state information may be used e.g. by the computing device and or by the managed browser in applying and or enforcing policies on the managed browser such as the policies discussed above in combination with the SSO credential which may e.g. be received in step as discussed above .

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser similar to how such a managed browser may be loaded in step discussed above . The managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser as discussed above. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In step a request to access an application store via the managed browser may be received. For example in step the computing device may receive a request to access an application store via the managed browser. Such a request may for instance be based on and or correspond to user input received by the computing device via the managed browser e.g. based on a user selecting a link and or otherwise requesting access to an application store using the managed browser . For example the managed browser may include an icon or toolbar that may be configured to cause the application store to be displayed within the managed browser upon selection of the icon or toolbar. Additionally or alternatively a specific policy that is applied to the managed browser may dynamically direct the browser to the correct application store based on one or more factors such as the context e.g. the state of the browser and or various other programs that may be running on the device user account information and or user role information.

In one or more arrangements the application store which e.g. is requested to be accessed in step may be an enterprise application store that is configured to provide enterprise applications to one or more mobile computing devices. In addition to being configured to provide enterprise applications to various devices the enterprise application store also may be configured to provide one or more mobile device management policies and or policy updates to various devices. For instance the application store may be configured to provide one or more applications that can be downloaded by one or more mobile computing devices and or other user devices and that can subsequently be run natively on such user devices. The application store also may provide information that can be used to access one or more web applications and or one or more virtualized applications. For example the application store may provide a pointer and or location information that can be used by the managed browser to locate and or connect to a server that is running and or otherwise configured to provide such a web application or virtualized application. In some instances the pointer and or location information may also be passed by the managed browser to a different application on the computing device to execute the web application or the virtualized application.

In step enterprise data from the application store may be obtained based on the request. For example in step the computing device may connect to request and subsequently receive and or otherwise obtain information from the application store based on the request received in step .

In step at least part of the obtained enterprise data may be presented via the managed browser. For example in step the computing device may present via the managed browser at least part of the enterprise data obtained from the application store in step . In presenting the enterprise data via the managed browser the computing device may for instance cause the managed browser to display and or otherwise present one or more user interfaces that are configured to allow the enterprise data obtained from the application store to be viewed interacted with and or otherwise accessed. For instance in step the computing device may cause the managed browser to display and or otherwise present one or more user interfaces that allow a user to view applications and or other content available in the application store select and or download such applications and or other content and or otherwise interact with application store data.

In some embodiments presenting at least part of the obtained enterprise data may include causing an application download interface to be provided via the managed browser. For example in presenting at least part of the enterprise data obtained from the application store the computing device may display and or cause the managed browser to display and or otherwise present an application download interface. The application download interface may for instance include information about one or more applications that may be available for download via the application store and or may include one or more links and or other controls that are selectable to download the available application s .

In some embodiments presenting at least part of the obtained enterprise data may include providing access to at least one application from the application store where the at least one application is only accessible via the managed browser. For example in presenting at least part of the enterprise data obtained from the application store the computing device may provide access to an application in the application store that is only available e.g. for access download etc. when the application store is accessed with the managed browser e.g. and not with a conventional and or non managed browser . In some instances certain types of information associated with a specific application which may e.g. be available in the application store and or may have been obtained from the application store might only be provided to a user device when the user device is accessing the application store via the managed browser. For example access to enterprise templates specific data sets co worker reviews information about specific projects for which the application has been used lists of other users and or employees that have downloaded the application and or other types of information associated with a specific application might only be provided via the managed browser. This information may for instance be considered enterprise specific and thus access to the information may be restricted through use of the managed browser.

In some embodiments presenting at least part of the obtained enterprise data may include causing a virtualized session of at least one application to be provided via the managed browser. For example in presenting at least part of the enterprise data obtained from the application store the computing device may cause a virtualized session of an application to be provided via the managed browser. For instance the computing device may cause the managed browser to display and or otherwise provide one or more virtualized user interfaces of the application which may be obtained from and or remotely executed by the application store and or one or more enterprise resources.

In some embodiments the managed browser may be further configured to monitor device state information and enforce one or more policies based on the device state information. For example in addition to being configured to present enterprise data obtained from the application store the managed browser may be further configured to monitor device state information and enforce one or more policies e.g. on the managed browser itself and or on one or more other applications that may be running on the device . For instance the managed browser may be configured to operate as and or provide functionalities similar to the MRM agent discussed above such that the managed browser may operate on the computing device not only as a browser that can securely access enterprise resources but also as a mobile resource management agent that can monitor device state information and enforce policies on various applications and or other functions of the device based on the state information.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser similar to how such a managed browser may be loaded in step discussed above . The managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser as discussed above. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In step a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser may be received. For example in step the computing device may receive a request to access one or more enterprise resources via the managed browser. Such a request may for instance be based on and or correspond to user input received by the computing device via the managed browser e.g. based on a user selecting a link and or otherwise requesting access to a network resource using the managed browser .

In step enterprise data from the one or more enterprise resources may be obtained based on the request. For example in step the computing device may connect to request and subsequently receive and or otherwise obtain information from the one or more enterprise resources based on the request received in step .

In step the obtained enterprise data may be controlled based on one or more policies. For example in step the computing device may control the enterprise data obtained in step using one or more mobile device management policies. The one or more mobile device management policies may for instance define certain circumstances in which certain functions e.g. certain functions of the managed browser certain functions involving the obtained enterprise data etc. may be allowed prohibited and or otherwise restricted. Additionally or alternatively the computing device may be configured to evaluate these circumstances based on device state information and subsequently control the enterprise data in accordance with the one or more policies. In some instances the obtained enterprise data may be controlled using the same set of policies e.g. a first set of policies that may be applied to the managed browser in the managed mode. In other instances the obtained enterprise data may be controlling using a different set of policies e.g. a second set of policies different from the first set of policies than may be applied to the managed browser in the managed mode.

In some embodiments the policies that are used in controlling the enterprise data e.g. in step may be specific to and or grouped for one or more particular industries such as healthcare finance law engineering and so on. By grouping and or otherwise implementing policies in this manner a cohesive group of industry specific policies can be applied to the managed browser to create an industry specific browser. For example a cohesive group of healthcare related policies may be applied to the managed browser to create a healthcare browser in which for instance the policies may operate to block certain functionality to meet regulatory and or privacy concerns.

In some embodiments the policies that are used in controlling the enterprise data e.g. in step may include one or more policies that allow and or cause logging functions and or other monitoring functions to be selectively applied and or executed. Such logging functions and or other monitoring functions may be applied to the managed browser and or to one or more other applications and or services running on the computing device. For example one or more policies may monitor and or selectively filter network traffic during certain times in certain locations and or based on the current context of the device. Additionally or alternatively one or more policies may monitor and or selectively filter network traffic based on user role information performance information which may e.g. include device performance and or network performance and or one or more other factors.

In some embodiments controlling the obtained enterprise data may include controlling the managed browser with a mobile resource management MRM agent such as a mobile resource management MRM agent that is configured to apply at least one policy to at least one other application on the computing device. For example in addition to being configured to control the managed browser e.g. by applying and or enforcing policies on the managed browser an MRM agent that may be running on the computing device may be further configured to apply various mobile device management policies to other applications that are stored on and or running on the computing device. Such an MRM agent may for instance incorporate one or more aspects of client agent discussed above .

In some embodiments at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to selectively disable one or more functions of the managed browser based on device state information. Some examples of the functions of the managed browser that may be selectively disabled by such a policy in some instances include cut and paste functions instant messaging functions and video chat functions. While these functions are listed here as examples of the functions that may be selectively disabled in some instances other functions may be similarly disabled in other instances. In addition the device state information that may be used in evaluating the one or more policies may include information identifying one or more applications that are present on the computing device information identifying one or more network connections that are used by the computing device and or information identifying a current location of the computing device as in the examples discussed above.

In some embodiments controlling the obtained enterprise data based on one or more policies may include controlling access to the obtained enterprise data. In addition controlling access to the obtained enterprise data may in some instances include controlling use of the obtained enterprise data. For example the one or more policies may define certain circumstances in which the enterprise data e.g. the enterprise data obtained using the managed browser in step can only be accessed and or used in certain ways and the computing device may detect and or otherwise identify these circumstances e.g. based on device state information and subsequently restrict and or otherwise control the way s in which the data can be accessed and or used in accordance with the one or more policies. For instance at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to limit the circumstances in which the obtained enterprise data can be copied and pasted e.g. from the managed browser into another application . As another example at least one policy of the one or more policies may be configured to limit the circumstances in which the obtained enterprise data can be saved or printed e.g. by the managed browser and or by the computing device .

In some embodiments the managed browser may be configured to receive one or more policy updates for the MRM agent from a policy management server. For example the managed browser may in some instances receive one or more policy updates which may e.g. include new and or updated policies to be applied to the managed browser other applications and or other aspects of the computing device . Such policy updates may for instance be received from a policy management server and after receiving such a policy update the managed browser may provide the policy update and its associated information to the MRM agent which may e.g. then receive and apply the new and or updated policies as appropriate .

In some embodiments controlling the obtained enterprise data may include selectively blocking access to the obtained enterprise data when the managed browser is operating in an unmanaged mode. For example after obtaining enterprise data from one or more enterprise resources e.g. in step the managed browser and or the computing device on which the managed browser is running may selectively block access to the obtained enterprise data when the managed browser is operating in an unmanaged mode in which e.g. one or more policies might not be applied to the browser as discussed in the examples above . In other words the managed browser and or the computing device on which the managed browser is running may be configured such that a user of the computing device might only be able to access the obtained enterprise data with the managed browser while the managed browser is running in the managed mode and may be prevented from accessing the obtained enterprise data via the managed browser while the managed browser is not running in the managed mode e.g. when the managed browser is running in the unmanaged mode .

As seen in the method may begin at step in which at least one policy to be applied to a managed browser on one or more user computing devices may be received. For example such a policy may be received by a server computing device which may e.g. incorporate one or more aspects of generic computing device and or may be configured to provide policy management functionalities for an enterprise organization and or its various users . In addition the policy may be received by the server computing device from an administrative user and or from a computing device being operated by such a user who may be defining one or more new and or updated policies to be applied to the managed browser s on various user computing devices. As in the examples discussed above the managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In step at least one policy update may be provided to at least one user computing device of the one or more user computing devices based on the at least one policy. For example in step the server computing device may provide a policy update to a user computing device based on the policy received in step . In providing the policy update to a user computing device the server computing device may for instance connect to push and or otherwise send information to the user computing device about the new and or updated policy which may have been received by the server computing device in step .

In one or more arrangements the at least one policy update may be configured to cause the at least one user computing device to apply the at least one received policy to a managed browser on the at least one user computing device. For example the policy update which may e.g. be provided by the server computing device to a user computing device in step may be configured to cause the user computing device to apply the policy which may e.g. be received by the server computing device in step to a managed browser on the user computing device. Such a managed browser may for example be running stored and or otherwise present on the user computing device that receives the policy update from the server computing device e.g. in step . In some arrangements the policy which may e.g. be received in step by the server computing device and subsequently provided to and received by the user computing device via the policy update in step may define one or more specific rules that may be enforced on the managed browser and or on the user computing device running the managed browser. Such rules may for instance be enforced in specific circumstances that may be defined in terms of and or evaluated based on device state information which may e.g. include information about what other applications are running installed on and or otherwise present on the user computing device where the user computing device is located what networks the user computing device is connected to etc. 

In some embodiments the at least one received policy may include one or more content filtering rules. For example in some instances the policy received by the server computing device in step may include one or more content filtering rules. Such a content filtering rule may for instance control a managed browser s ability to access specific network resources which may include specific enterprise resources. For example a content filtering rule may selectively block and or selectively allow access to specific types of content by the managed browser based on device state information which may e.g. include information about what other applications are running installed on and or otherwise present on the user computing device where the user computing device is located what networks the user computing device is connected to etc. as discussed above and or other specific criteria.

In some embodiments the at least one received policy may include one or more caching rules. For example in some instances the policy received by the server computing device in step may include one or more content caching rules. Such a content caching rule may for instance control a managed browser s ability to cache specific types of content which may include specific types of content received from one or more enterprise resources specific types of content received from other network resources e.g. web content cookies etc. and or other types of information. For example a content caching rule may selectively block and or selectively allow caching of specific types of content by the managed browser based on device state information which may e.g. include information about what other applications are running installed on and or otherwise present on the user computing device where the user computing device is located what networks the user computing device is connected to etc. as discussed above and or other specific criteria.

In some embodiments the at least one received policy may include one or more plugin rules. For example in some instances the policy received by the server computing device in step may include one or more plug in management rules. Such a plug in management rule may for instance control a managed browser s ability to access execute and or otherwise use specific plug ins which may e.g. include various types of applications extensions applets scripts and or other types of plug ins . For example a plug in management rule may selectively prevent and or selectively enable access execution and or use of one or more specific plug ins by the managed browser based on device state information which may e.g. include information about what other applications are running installed on and or otherwise present on the user computing device where the user computing device is located what networks the user computing device is connected to etc. as discussed above and or other specific criteria.

In some embodiments the at least one received policy may include one or more credential management rules. For example in some instances the policy received by the server computing device in step may include one or more credential management rules. Such a credential management rule may for instance control a managed browser s ability to use specific credentials which may include one or more single sign on SSO credentials for instance in accessing one or more resources. For example a credential management rule may selectively prevent and or enable access to and or use of one or more specific credentials by the managed browser based on device state information which may e.g. include information about what other applications are running installed on and or otherwise present on the user computing device where the user computing device is located what networks the user computing device is connected to etc. as discussed above and or other specific criteria.

In some embodiments the at least one received policy may be configured to be enforced by the at least one user computing device based on device state information. For example in some instances the policy received by the server computing device in step may be configured to be enforced by a user computing device based on device state information associated with the user computing device. Such a policy may for instance cause one or more specific functions to be executed and or prevent one or more other specific functions from being executed based on state information associated with the user computing device. As discussed above such state information may for example include information about what other applications e.g. besides the managed browser may be running installed on and or otherwise present on the user computing device information about where the user computing device is located information about what networks the user computing device is connected to and or other information.

In some embodiments the at least one received policy may include one or more rules that are configured to cause the managed browser to switch to an unmanaged mode based on one or more criteria. For example in some instances the policy received by the server computing device in step may include one or more rules that are configured to cause a managed browser on a user computing device to switch from a managed mode to an unmanaged mode based on one or more criteria. The one or more criteria may for example be based on and or include device state information associated with the user computing device. As discussed above such state information may for example include information about what other applications e.g. besides the managed browser may be running installed on and or otherwise present on the user computing device information about where the user computing device is located information about what networks the user computing device is connected to and or other information.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a request from a managed browser on a user computing device may be received at an application store to access a first portion of the application store. For example in step a computing device that may provide an application store and or be configured an application store such as a server computing device that is configured to provide an enterprise application store may receive a request from a managed browser on a user computing device to access a specific portion of the application store such as a portion of the application store associated with specific applications and or specific types of applications.

In step it may be determined by the application store whether the managed browser is operating in a managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser where the one or more policies being configured to limit at least one function of the managed browser. For example in step the computing device may determine whether the managed browser running on the user computing device is running in a managed mode. For instance the managed browser on the user computing device may provide and or have a managed mode similar to the managed mode s of the managed browser discussed in the examples above for example in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser. In addition the application store may determine whether the managed browser is operating in the managed mode by interrogating and or otherwise exchanging information which may e.g. include device state information associated with the user computing device with the managed browser to determine its current operating mode.

If it is determined in step that the managed browser is operating in the managed mode then in step the application store may allow the managed browser to access the first portion of the application store. For example in step the computing device may provide the managed browser with access to the first portion of the application store which may e.g. include providing information associated with the first portion of the application such as information associated with specific applications and or specific types of applications to the managed browser . In this way the managed browser on the user computing device can access specific portions of the application store such as the first portion of the application store in this example while it is running in a managed mode and as illustrated below the managed browser might not be able to access specific portions of the application store when it is not running in a managed mode e.g. when the browser is running in an unmanaged mode .

Thus if it is determined in step that the managed browser is not operating in the managed mode then in step the application store may prevent the managed browser from accessing the first portion of the application store. For example in step the computing device may prevent and or block the managed browser and or the user computing device on which the managed browser is running from accessing and or otherwise obtaining information from the first portion of the application store.

Additionally or alternatively in step the application store may provide the managed browser with access to a second portion of the application store different from the first portion of the application store. For example after determining that the managed browser is not operating in the managed mode e.g. in step the application store may in step provide the managed browser with access to a different portion of the application store e.g. than the portion that may have been originally requested by the managed browser and or by the user of the managed browser .

Additionally or alternatively in step the application store may send a command to the managed browser and the command may be configured to cause the managed browser to enter a managed mode. For example after determining that the managed browser is not operating in the managed mode e.g. in step the application store may in step send such a command to the managed browser. In sending such a command the computing device providing the application store may for instance send and or exchange data with the user computing device on which the managed browser is running. In addition although the application store might send such a command the managed browser on the user computing device might not enter the managed mode if for instance one or more policies and or current device state information for the user computing device prevent the managed browser from entering the managed mode.

Thus in step the application store may reevaluate whether the managed browser is operating in the managed mode after sending the command to the managed browser. For example in step the application store may again interrogate and or otherwise exchange information with the user computing device and or the managed browser running on the user computing device which may include obtaining and or analyzing device state information from the user computing device.

If after the reevaluating in step it is determined that the managed browser is operating in the managed mode then in step the application store may allow the managed browser to access the first portion of the application store. For example in step the computing device may provide the managed browser with access to the first portion of the application store similar to how the application store may provide such access in step . Alternatively if after the reevaluating in step it is determined that the managed browser is still not operating in the managed mode then in step the application store may generate and or send a notification to the managed browser and such a notification may indicate that access to the first portion of the application store cannot be provided while the managed browser is not running in the managed mode. For example in step the application store may send such a notification to the managed browser in hopes that the user of the managed browser may manually switch the managed browser into the managed mode and or take other actions which may alter the device state information and or compliance with one or more policies to allow the managed browser to enter the managed mode. Such actions may for instance include closing and or deleting specific applications that may be on the user computing device besides the managed browser moving the user computing device to another location different from the location at which the device is currently located and or connecting the user computing device to one or more other networks than the current network s to which the device may be currently connected.

As seen in the method may begin at step in which a managed browser may be loaded. For example in step a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device such as a laptop computer tablet computer smart phone or other type of mobile device may load a managed browser similar to how such a managed browser may be loaded in step discussed above . The managed browser may for instance be configured to provide at least one managed mode in which one or more policies are applied to the managed browser and the one or more policies may be configured to limit one or more functions of the managed browser as discussed above. Additionally the managed browser may in some embodiments be configured to provide secure browsing and caching of data obtained from at least one enterprise resource.

In step a managed execution environment may be provided within the managed browser. The managed execution environment may be configured to facilitate execution of one or more web applications and the managed execution environment may be further configured to apply at least one policy of the one or more policies to the one or more web applications. For example in step the computing device may provide a managed execution environment within the managed browser. The managed execution environment may for instance operate as a shell in which one or more web applications may be executed. The web applications that may be executed in the managed execution environment may for instance be written in and or otherwise utilize various different programming languages which may e.g. be interpreted when executed by the computing device at runtime within the managed execution environment . Additionally or alternatively one or more policies may be applied to web applications that are executed within the managed execution environment and the one or more policies may be defined and or imposed by the computing device an MRM agent running on the computing device the managed browser and or the managed execution environment itself. The policies that are applied to web applications within the managed execution environment may be similar to the policies discussed in the examples above and may for instance be enforced based on and or otherwise depend on device state information which may e.g. include device state information for the computing device providing the managed execution environment .

In some embodiments the managed execution environment may be configured to facilitate execution of at least one HTML5 HyperText Markup Language 5 application. For example in some instances at least one web application of the one or more web applications that can be executed within the managed execution environment may be an HTML5 application that is for instance coded in HTML5 markup language.

In some embodiments at least one policy of the one or more policies may be received from a policy management server. For example in some instances the one or more policies that may be applied to a web application in the managed execution environment may be received from a policy management server. Such a policy management server may for instance communicate directly with the managed execution environment on the computing device and or with the managed browser and or an MRM agent running on the computing device to provide new and or updated policies to be applied to various web applications that may be executed in the managed execution environment within the managed browser.

In some embodiments at least one policy which may e.g. be applied to the one or more web applications in the managed execution environment may be configured to prevent the one or more web applications from accessing at least one local storage resource. For example based on one or more policies that may be applied by the managed execution environment and or based on device state information which may e.g. affect how specific policies are enforced as in the examples discussed above the managed execution environment and or the computing device that is providing the managed execution environment within the managed browser may prevent one or more web applications in the managed execution environment from storing data in one or more local resources on the computing device. Additionally or alternatively based on one or more policies that may be applied by the managed execution environment and or based on device state information the managed execution environment and or the computing device that is providing the managed execution environment within the managed browser may prevent one or more web applications in the managed execution environment from accessing locally stored data which may e.g. be stored in one or more local resources on the computing device .

In some embodiments at least one policy which may e.g. be applied to the one or more web applications in the managed execution environment may be configured to selectively enable the one or more web applications to access at least one local storage. For example based on one or more policies that may be applied by the managed execution environment and or based on device state information which may e.g. affect how specific policies are enforced as in the examples discussed above the managed execution environment and or the computing device that is providing the managed execution environment within the managed browser may allow one or more specific web applications in the managed execution environment to access data in one or more local resources on the computing device. Additionally or alternatively based on one or more policies that may be applied by the managed execution environment and or based on device state information the managed execution environment and or the computing device that is providing the managed execution environment within the managed browser may allow one or more specific web applications in the managed execution environment to store and or modify data in one or more local resources on the computing device. In some instances such a policy may additionally or alternatively require the one or more web applications to utilize one or more encryption functions e.g. to encrypt data being accessed from and or stored in the local resources in instances in which the one or more web applications are interacting with local storage resources.

In some embodiments the managed execution environment may be configured to expose a policy management agent on the computing device to the one or more web applications. For example the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment within the managed browser may in some instances expose a policy management agent which may e.g. be an MRM agent as discussed in the examples above that is running on the computing device to the one or more web applications that may be executed in the managed execution environment. By exposing the policy management agent to the web applications in this manner the managed execution environment may be able to extend policy management functionalities secure key management functionalities and or other functionalities to the managed execution environment and or the web applications in the managed execution environment.

In some embodiments the managed execution environment may be configured to expose one or more functions to the one or more web applications via an application programming interface. For example the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment within the managed browser may in some instances expose one or more functions to the one or more web applications via one or more interfaces that may allow such a web application provide higher level functionalities than might be provided by other web applications. For example the exposed functions may allow a web application in the managed execution environment to utilize encryption functionalities secure tunneling functionalities secure data storage functionalities policy management functionalities and or other functionalities that may for instance be provided by other applications and or services running on the computing device such as an MRM agent running on the computing device.

In some embodiments the managed execution environment may be configured to provide an authentication service for the one or more web applications. For example the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment within the managed browser may in some instances provide an authentication service for one or more web applications in the managed execution environment. In providing such an authentication service the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment may for instance handle multi factor authentication processes for a web application which may include obtaining credentials maintaining keys and or providing credentials and or keys to facilitate various handshakes in specific circumstances. In some instances by handling such multi factor authentication processes the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment may enable execution of one or more specific functions within a particular web application and or enable execution of a web application itself.

In some embodiments the managed execution environment may be configured to apply a default set of policies to the one or more web applications. For example the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment may in some instances a default set of policies or a policy bundle to one or more specific web applications in the managed execution environment. The default set of policies may for instance be received from and or periodically updated by a policy management server. In addition the default set of policies may be applied to a particular web application in the managed execution environment unless a different and or customized set of policies is defined for the web application.

In some embodiments the managed execution environment may be configured to dynamically update a set of policies applied to the one or more web applications. For example the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment may in some instances dynamically update and or otherwise modify on the fly the policies that are applied to a specific web application in the managed execution environment based on device state information and or user information which may e.g. include user role information to change in real time the behavior of the managed execution environment based on current usage context of the device. For instance based on device state information which may e.g. include information about what other applications are running installed on and or otherwise present on the user computing device where the user computing device is located what networks the user computing device is connected to etc. the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment may selectively enable and or selectively disable one or more policies that may be applied to one or more web applications in the managed execution environment. As another example based on a change in user information which may e.g. occur as a result of a user switching accounts and or as a result of a different user logging into the device the managed execution environment and or the computing device providing the managed execution environment may selectively enable and or selectively disable one or more policies that may be applied to one or more web applications in the managed execution environment. In this manner the managed execution environment may dynamically adapt to changing conditions that may require different levels of controls to be imposed upon the web applications that are present in and or being executed in the managed execution environment.

As illustrated above various aspects of the disclosure relate to providing a managed browser on a mobile computing device. In other embodiments however the concepts discussed herein can be implemented in any other type of computing device e.g. a desktop computer a server a console a set top box etc. . Thus although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are described as some example implementations of the following claims.

