---

title: Systems and methods for WLAN network selection
abstract: Methods, systems, and devices for network selection are disclosed herein. User equipment (UE) includes a communication component, a rules component, and a network selection component. The communication component may be configured to communicate over a 3GPP network and a non-cellular network. The rules component may be configured to store an access network discovery and selection function (ANDSF) management object (MO) that includes wireless local area network (WLAN) selection policies for network selection on the UE. The WLAN selection policies may include interworking WLAN (I-WLAN) policies and Hotspot 2.0 (HS2.0) parameters. The network selection component is configured to select an available WLAN based on the ANDSF MO.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380444&OS=09380444&RS=09380444
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09380444
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130927
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2013 062384 filed Sep. 27 2013 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 768 330 filed Feb. 22 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base station and a wireless mobile device. Wireless communication system standards and protocols can include the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as Wi Fi. In 3GPP radio access networks RANs in LTE systems the base station can include Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and or Radio Network Controllers RNCs in an E UTRAN which communicate with a wireless communication device known as user equipment UE .

Common goals in cellular wireless networks such as 3GPP networks include efficient use of licensed bandwidth as well as increased coverage and throughput. One way to improve performance with respect to these goals is through the offloading of communication flows for a UE or other wireless mobile device to other available networks. For example traffic may be offloaded to wireless local area network WLAN or other networks such as Wi Fi networks WiMAX networks or the like. These other networks may provide coverage where 3GPP networks or other cellular networks are not available such as in coverage gaps or indoors. Additionally because some of the traffic is offloaded to another network bandwidth on the 3GPP network may be freed up for use by other devices and the load on the 3GPP network may be reduced. In one embodiment other networks may be capable of providing greater data rates than the 3GPP network and may result in better throughput for the UE and or better quality of service.

Offloading to Wi Fi and or Wi MAX networks can significantly improve data rates and quality of service in 3GPP networks in part because networks belonging to other entities may be used. For example Wi Fi networks maintained or owned by a hotel store or other venue may be used to route 3GPP traffic. This may provide much needed coverage in locations where 3GPP coverage may not be available. For example interior spaces within buildings often have poor 3GPP reception. In some situations providers of Wi Fi or WiMAX networks can enter licenses with telecommunication companies individuals or other entities to provide communication services for 3GPP or other cellular service in order to bring in alternate forms of income.

In order to route traffic over alternate networks a UE must select one or more available networks over which to route traffic. However WLAN network selection in dual mode 3GPP compatible devices can result in conflicting sets of rules. Specifically WLAN network selection may be based on information provided in an interworking WLAN I WLAN management object MO specified in 3GPP Technical Specification TS 24.235 version 11.1.0 2012 11 16 information provided in the access network discovery and selection function ANDSF MO specified in 3GPP TS 24.312 version 11.4.0 2012 10 08 and or information in the subscription MO as defined by the Wi Fi Alliance WFA Hotspot 2.0 HS2.0 Release 2 specifications all of which are available to the public. For example both the I WLAN MO and the ANDSF MO may include operator controlled lists user preferred lists and home public land mobile network HPLMN controlled lists of preferred networks. The preferred networks may include preferred public land mobile networks PLMNs or service set identifiers SSIDs for preferred access networks. Since some of the information for WLAN network selection overlaps between the different MOs conflicts and or confusion can result in how to consistently select a WLAN access network.

Additional issues include complications regarding which procedures to apply during WLAN network selection. For example the I WLAN procedures may be applicable to initial network selection at I WLAN UE switch on and following recovery from lack of WLAN radio coverage. However it s not clear if these procedures are applicable during other cases which trigger WLAN network selection. Lack of a consistent set of procedures which can be applied for WLAN network selection across different trigger conditions results in unneeded complication.

Further issues include that the I WLAN procedures fail to take into account rich sets of ANDSF and HS2.0 policies for intelligent WLAN network selection. Furthermore if active policies governing WLAN network selection are changed the I WLAN procedures are not designed to reconsider new WLAN access networks and additional trigger points for I WLAN network selection need to be defined.

The present application discloses a single MO that includes consolidated WLAN network selection information within the single MO such as within the ANDSF MO. For example the ANDSF MO may be enhanced to include all information for network selection including WLAN network selection to eliminate overlap and potential conflict of information. The consolidation of this information may simplify network selection for the UE network and or users of the UE. In one embodiment the ANDSF MO is enhanced to include policy elements or parameters specified in HS2.0 specifications such as time of day location venue access network type load on network or the like for intelligent WLAN network selection.

The present application also discloses network selection procedures based on an ANDSF MO that includes the consolidated information. In one embodiment the network selection procedure is independent of I WLAN procedures as described in 3GPP TS 23.234 and 3GPP TS 24.234. For example the I WLAN procedures as described may not be used. Network selection independent of the I WLAN MO and or the procedures may enable operators that do not desire to deploy I WLAN and provide I WLAN configuration information to the UEs to still provide information to the UE to perform the selection of the appropriate PLMN or service provider. In one embodiment the solution designed for WLAN network selection may work independently of the mechanisms used to gain connectivity to the 3GPP core network such as the S2a S2b and or S2c interfaces .

In one embodiment a UE includes a communication component a rules component and a network selection component. The communication component may be configured to communicate over a 3GPP network and a non cellular network. The rules component may be configured to store an ANDSF MO that includes WLAN selection policies for network selection on the UE. The WLAN selection policies may include I WLAN policies and access network query protocol ANQP parameters. The network selection component is configured to select an available WLAN based on the ANDSF MO.

The system also includes trusted and untrusted Wi Fi RANs and a WiMAX RAN which connect to the core network via a wireless access gateway WAG a trusted WAG TWAG and an access service network gateway ASN GW respectively. The Wi Fi RANs may include WLANs that implement 802.11a 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac and or any other 802.11 radio access technology RAT . The WiMAX RAN may implement any version of the 802.16 RAT e.g. 802.16e or other 802.16 version . Each of the RANs includes one or more base stations or other infrastructure for wirelessly communicating with the UE and providing access to communication services. For example the E UTRAN includes one or more eNBs which are configured to wirelessly communicate with the UE .

The core network includes a serving gateway SGW a packet data network PDN gateway PGW an ANDSF server and an enhanced packet data gateway ePDG . The PGW is connected to the WAG via the ePDG using the S2b interface for the case of untrusted access and to the TWAG and ASN GW using the S2a interface for the case of trusted access . In one embodiment the core network may include an evolved packet core EPC . One of skill in the art will recognize that numerous other components and functions may be included or implemented in the core network .

The ANDSF server is configured to assist the UE to discover and connect to non 3GPP access networks such as the Wi Fi RAN and or the WiMAX RAN . The ANDSF server stores an ANDSF MO that includes policies for selecting a 3GPP or an alternative access network such as a WLAN access network. Policies within the ANDSF MO may indicate when connection to alternative networks is appropriate and or when traffic offloading should be performed. In one embodiment a cell of a cellular network such as a cell of one of the 3GPP RANs may have a corresponding list of Wi Fi hotspots or WiMAX base stations in the same area. The UE may use this list to connect to one of the available Wi Fi hotspots or WiMAX base stations and or route traffic over these connections.

The communication component is configured to wirelessly communicate with other devices. In one embodiment the communication component may be configured to communicate data between the UE and one or more base stations. For example the communication component may include a transceiver and or an antenna for sending and receiving wireless signals to an eNB or other base station. In one embodiment the communication component allows the UE to operate as a dual mode device. For example the communication component may include two or more radios configured to selectively or simultaneously communicate using two or more different communication standards. In one embodiment the communication component may be configured to communicate over a cellular network and or a non cellular network such as a WLAN . Example network technologies include 3GPP WiMAX and Wi Fi. According to one embodiment the communication component is configured to communicate data on behalf of the other components . For example the communication component may connect to or communicate data over a network selected by the network selection component .

The rules component is configured to store rules or a set of rules for network selection. For example the rules may include network selection policies such as WLAN network selection policies. In one embodiment the rules component stores an MO that includes policies and parameters controlling network selection. In one embodiment the MO includes an ANDSF MO or any other MO that includes network selection policies or other rules or parameters for network selection.

In one embodiment the rules component stores an MO that includes consolidated network selection rules. For example the MO may include all information required for WLAN network selection without referencing policies or parameters in another MO. In one embodiment the ANDSF MO may be enhanced to include parameters and policies located or duplicated in other MOs. As an example the policy elements could be added in the inter system routing policy ISRP and inter system mobility policy ISMP sub trees as extensions to the prioritized access descriptions for the case where the access technology is WLAN or in a new sub tree e.g. called a WLAN selection policy WLANSP in the ANDSF MO. The operator preferred list of WLAN service providers such as PLMNs and work station identifiers WSIDs may be added under access technology specific branches.

In one embodiment the ANDSF MO is enhanced to include a WLANSP node under which the network selection policies and parameters may be consolidated. For example the WLANSP node may form the root of a WLANSP sub tree in the MO separate from an ISMP and an ISRP. Similarly another MO may be enhanced to include the consolidated network selection policies or a new WLANSP MO may be created including the consolidated policies and parameters. By consolidating the WLAN network selection policy elements and related information in a single MO the overlap and potential conflicts in information can be resolved.

In one embodiment the MO includes WLAN selection policies based on parameters of the HS2.0 Release 2 specification. In one embodiment the HS2.0 specifications include or reference WLAN network selection policies or parameters as defined in the Subscription MO. In one embodiment 3GPP may define additional WLAN network selection policies for dual mode devices based on ANQP parameters or additional information included in HS2.0 specifications. For example the selection policies may be based on parameters that can be discovered from an HS2.0 access network. The ANQP may include policies and procedures which may be used by a UE to discover information about a Wi Fi hotspot such as information about the hotspot s operator roaming partners load or the like. In one embodiment the ANDSF MO as defined in TS 24.312 is enhanced to incorporate these additional policies based on HS2.0 specifications. For example the WLAN network selection policies may be based on HS2.0 parameters such as a venue parameter an access network type parameter a backhaul load parameter or any other policy elements or parameters in the HS2.0 specifications.

In one embodiment the MO with consolidated network selection policies includes all I WLAN policy parameters. The I WLAN MO as defined in 3GPP TS 24.235 specifies policies for WLAN network selection. For example the I WLAN MO may define a home operator network ID such as an SSID. Additionally the I WLAN MO may include operator controlled roaming partner priority lists which may include realms OUIs SSIDs or other identifiers. In one embodiment a single MO such as the ANDSF MO may be enhanced to include these parameters from the I WLAN MO.

In one embodiment the MO includes preferences for specific service providers. The preferences for specific service providers may indicate specific networks or may indicate organizations or other entities that operate the networks. For example the MO may include lists of preferred access networks based on SSIDs. Additionally or alternatively the MO may include lists of preferred access networks based on network access identifier NAI realms organizationally unique identifiers OUIs and or other identifiers that identify a roaming consortium or service provider. For example the list of preferred access networks may include any type of identifier that identifies the network as associated with an operator a service provider or other organization or group. In one embodiment inclusion of realms and or OUIs may allow a preferred network to be selected based on these identifiers and without a specific SSID for the preferred network. For example each WLAN may have its own specific and or unique identifier while the realms OUIs or other identifiers may be common to a plurality of networks. Thus a network may be identified as a preferred network simply based on the group of networks to which it belongs or the service providers through which it may provide access.

In one embodiment the preferences for specific service providers may be indicated in one or more lists. In one embodiment an operator controlled list may be provisioned within an MO by an ANDSF server or other network infrastructure component specifying preferred networks for the operator such as the operator of a 3GPP network for which the UE is activated . In one embodiment the lists may include a user controlled list for networks that the user prefers. The user preferred networks may include networks to which a user has allowed the UE to connect as well as service providers which can be identified based on a corresponding OUI or realm for which the user has a subscription. In one embodiment the lists may include an HPLMN controlled list indicating preferences of the HPLMN for which the UE is activated. The user controlled lists operator controlled lists and or HPLMN controlled lists may include preferred WLAN service providers such as PLMN5 or WSIDs.

The WLANSP node may form a root node of a WLANSP sub tree of the ANDSF MO . For example the 3GPP defined policies for WLAN network selection may be organized within the WLANSP sub tree in the ANDSF MO separate from ISMP and ISRP. In one embodiment the ISMP node ISRP node and internal sub nodes remain unchanged but may include a prioritized list of 3GPP and WLAN access networks. In another embodiment the policies may be distributed in the ISRP and ISMP sub trees as extensions to the prioritized access descriptions for the case where the access network is a WLAN. In one embodiment a selection of an active rule requires interaction between WLANSP ISMP and the ISRP nodes and sub trees.

The WLANSP sub tree may include a rules set that includes one or more WLANSP rules. In one embodiment each WLANSP rule may specify a priority value a set of validity conditions and or a list of preferred WLAN attributes. For example the depicted WLANSP node includes sub nodes and which may include leaf or branch nodes that specify values for the conditions priorities and or preferred WLAN attributes of a rule. The ValidityArea node and TimeOfDay node may indicate validity conditions for when the rule should be applied. For example the ValidityArea node or sub nodes may define a geographical region in which the rule is valid and the TimeOfDay node or sub nodes may define a time of day during which the rule is valid. The Priority node may indicate a priority for the rule. For example the Priority node may include a value indicating a relative priority of the rule as compared to other rules. For example rules with a higher priority may if valid be applied while lower priority rules may not be applied.

The PreferredWlans node may include a list of preferred WLAN attributes for the rule. For example the PreferredWlans node may include a plurality of sub nodes indicating one or more supported realms a basic service set BSS load one or more SSIDs one or more OUIs or the like. In one embodiment the use of realms OUIs RoamingConsoriumOIs or the like allows for reduced maintenance of preferred WLAN lists. For example the preferred WLAN policies may be based on realms and or OUIs to indicate for example that WLANs that interwork with Realm PartnerX.com have the highest access priority . The UE may use the realms and or OUIs as an alternative way instead of using SSID to identify and prioritize the discovered WLAN access networks. In one embodiment the realms OUIs or other identifiers are supported by HS2.0 compliant WLAN access networks.

In one embodiment a WLANSP rule or other parameter in the WLANSP sub tree may include parameters or policies from the HS2.0 specification such as policies from the Subscription MO . In one embodiment a WLANSP sub tree or rule within the sub tree may be based on one or more of a PreferredRoamingPartnerList parameter a PreferredRoamingPartnerList parameter a MinimumBackhaulThreshold parameter a MinimumBackhaulAvailableBandwidthThreshold parameter a MaximumBSSLoad parameter a BSSLoadThreshold parameter a SPExclusionList parameter a RequiredProtoPortTuple parameter or any other HS2.0 parameter or node. To address location related information policies related to WLAN access network type venue information and connection capability may be included in the ANDSF MO. The connection capabilities of the WLAN network may be advertised to proximal UE . In one embodiment a UE may query a WLAN access network to obtain values for one or more of the above parameters corresponding to the WLAN access network. The WLANSP sub tree may also include 3GPP specific sub nodes which specify requirements for WLAN selection.

The PSPL node include sub nodes and or information including a list of service providers preferred by the home operator. These service providers may support authentication authorization and accounting AAA interworking with the HPLMN and can be used to authenticate the UE with the extensible authentication protocol method for universal mobile telecommunication system UMTS authentication and key agreement EAP AKA . The UE uses the PSPL node and or sub nodes to identify whether a 3GPP service provider is an equivalent HPLMN or a 3GPP roaming partner. The PSPL node and or sub nodes may also contain a policy whether or not a UE prefers the 3GPP registered PLMN RPLMN also for WLAN access.

The PreferVplmnWlans node and or sub nodes may contain a list of PLMNs. In one embodiment when the UE is roaming to one of these PLMNs the UE is configured to prefer WLAN access networks policies provided by this visited PLMN VPLMN over the WLANs provided by the HPLMN. When the UE is roaming to any other PLMN the UE may be configured to prefer WLAN access networks policies provided by the HPLMN.

Returning to the discovery component is configured to discover a set of available WLAN access networks. In one embodiment the discovery component discovers access networks using a radio or antenna of the communication component . In one embodiment the discovery component discovers the WLAN access networks based on SSIDs realms OUIs or other identifiers within an MO or rule set stored by the rules component . In one embodiment the discovery component discovers WLAN access networks that are within range of the UE and that meet one or more restrictions of the ANDSF MO. For example the discovery component may search for SSIDs realms OUIs or other identifiers based on a current geographical location of the UE time of day or any other parameters specified by the ANDSF MO .

The discovery component may discover parameters capabilities or the like of a WLAN network based on HS2.0 specifications. For example the discovery component may discover roaming relationships loads on a specific WLAN access network or the like. Any of the parameters of the HS2.0 may be discovered by the discovery component . In one embodiment the discovery component may query a proximal WLAN access network using ANQP to discover parameters listed within the ANDSF MO . For example based on information in IEEE 802.11 beacons and using ANQP procedures the discovery component discovers the RoamingConsortiums lists and or NAI Realm lists which identify service providers whose services can be accessed using the WLAN access network and whose credentials can be used for authentication. In one embodiment the discovery component compiles a list of available WLAN access networks and or associated parameters and information for evaluation during network and or service provider selection.

The network selection component is configured to select an available WLAN access network based on WLAN selection policies. For example the network selection component may select a WLAN network based on one or more of the rules and policies within the ANDSF MO such as the ANDSF MO of . In one embodiment the WLAN network selection is driven by the HPLMN. For example in roaming scenarios the home ANDSF policies may take precedence over visited ANDSF policies. In one embodiment this preference for HPLMN or VPLMN policies can be determined based on reference to the PreferVplmnWlans node of the ANDSF MO . The preference for HPLMN or VPLMN can be indicated by an operator user or the HPLMN for example.

In one embodiment the network selection component determines one or more currently valid rules or policies. For example the network selection component of the UE may evaluate the conditions such as a location or time condition to determine whether a rule in the WLANSP node branch or any other location within an MO is valid. In one embodiment the network selection component determines which WLANSP rules are valid and selects one or more of these valid rules to apply. For example rules with the highest priority which may be indicated by the Priority node may be applied to a list of WLAN access networks discovered by the discovery component .

In one embodiment the network selection component may prioritize a list of available WLAN access networks based on an active WLANSP rule. For example WLAN access networks that better match the WLANSP rule or meet more requirements of the active WLANSP rule may be listed with a higher priority than WLAN access networks which do not meet the requirements. In one embodiment the network selection component may prioritize the list of available WLAN access networks based on HS2.0 parameters. For example the network selection component may prioritize the WLANs based on a venue a network load an available backhaul bandwidth and a lists of preferred SSIDs OUIs realms or the like.

The network selection component may prioritize the list based on service providers that are available on each of the available access networks. In one embodiment the network selection component may prioritize the list using HS2.0 or other parameters and then compares the list of available WLANs with the preferred WLANs based on WLANSP rules and selects the WLAN with the highest priority. For example the network selection component may compare a list of preferred networks to the list of available networks. In one embodiment a user controlled list operator controlled list HPLMN controlled list or other list of preferred service providers may be used to prioritize the networks. The service provider policies may be located within an MO such as the AND SF MO and or within a universal subscriber identity module USIM such as a USIM card. In one embodiment if there are multiple WLANs with the same highest priority the network selection component selects the WLAN that interworks with the most preferred service provider in the PSPL sub tree under the PSPL node of .

The network selection component may select a most preferred WLAN access network. For example the network selection component may select an access network with a highest priority from the prioritized list of networks. In one embodiment a network is selected based on network attributes other than service providers that are available through a network. For example the network selection component may select an WLAN access network based on HS2.0 parameters preferred networks lists or the like and then select a service provider from the available service providers corresponding to the selected WLAN access network. In one embodiment the network selection component may take HS2.0 parameters and service providers into account when prioritizing the network and then select a highest priority network. The network selection component may initiate authorization with a service provider corresponding to the selected network and the communication component may route traffic flows over the selected network using the selected service provider.

In one embodiment the network selection component may select a WLAN network based on ISRP and or ISMP policies within the ANDSF MO. For example the network selection component may prioritize a list of available access networks using the WLANSP sub tree of the ANDSF MO and then apply the ISRP and or ISMP in order to make a network selection. In one embodiment the ISRP and or ISMP area applied after an initial network selection or are used to determine what traffic is routed over the selected network.

In one embodiment the network selection component is configured to select a WLAN access network during initial network selection. For example the network selection component may not need to wait until a PLMN is selected using a 3GPP communication standard in order to select a WLAN. In one embodiment the WLAN may be used to communicate traffic flows that are normally directed over a 3GPP network such as voice traffic flows or control traffic when a 3GPP network is unavailable. In one embodiment the network selection component may use the ANDSF MO to select the access network during initial network selection. According to one embodiment the network selection procedures performed by the network selection component utilizes WLAN MO settings prior to or during WLAN network selection. This may allow the preferences specified in the ANDSF rules to initially select or reselect a network and or trigger the UE to initially select or to reselect another WLAN access network such as a network in a different PLMN .

The ANDSF server is configured to store and provide network selection and or routing rules to the UE . In one embodiment the ANDSF server is configured to synchronize an ANDSF MO with the UE at activation or in a dynamic manner. In one embodiment the ANDSF server stores an ANDSF MO such as the ANDSF MO of indicating network selection rules for a UE . In one embodiment the ANDSF server may store multiple ANDSF MOs for different UEs and or for different types of UEs . The ANDSF MO may include a WLAN selection policy or other rules or policies for controlling network selection. The ANDSF MO may be open mobile alliance OMA device management DM compliant.

In one embodiment the ANDSF server is configured to establish communication with a UE . For example the ANDSF server may receive a request from a UE to connect and update an MO for the UE . In one embodiment the UE may request updating of the MO in response to the ANDSF server indicating that the MO has changed.

The ANDSF server may synchronize at least a portion of the ANDSF MO with the UE . For example the ANDSF server may synchronize at least a portion of the MO that includes a WLANSP branch of the MO. In one embodiment the ANDSF server may only provide portions of the ANDSF MO that are different from an ANDSF MO stored by the UE . In one embodiment the ANDSF MO includes network selection rules that include identifiers indicating service provider preferences. For example the service provider preferences may include an SSID an OUI an NAI realm a roaming consortium or any other service provider identifier.

Following is an example implementation of network selection policies and parameters according to one embodiment. One of skill in the art will recognize that numerous variations and embodiments are within the scope of the present disclosure and are not limited to this example.

This example discloses an ANDSF MO that includes a set of rules and describes how a UE uses selects a most preferred WLAN access network based on the rules. The ANDSF MO includes a number of nodes and or information that contain the rules and selection policies. A PSPL node is included in the ANDSF MO that contains a list of service providers preferred by the home operator. These service providers support AAA interworking with the HPLMN and can be used to authenticate the UE with EAP AKA. In one embodiment this node is included only by the home ANDSF. A PreferVplmnWlans node is included in the ANDSF MO that can contain a list of PLMNs. When the UE is roaming to one of these PLMNs the UE is configured to prefer WLAN access networks policies provided by the VPLMN over the WLANs provided by the HPLMN. When the UE is roaming to any other PLMN the UE is configured to prefer WLAN access networks policies provided by the HPLMN. A WLANSP node is include in the ANDSF MO. This node includes one or more WLANSP rules each one specifying a priority value a set of validity conditions and list of a preferred WLAN attributes such as supported realms BSS load SSIDs OUIs etc. . The UE determines which WLANSP rules are valid and selects one of these valid rules to apply. The applied WLANSP rule is used by the UE to select the most preferred WLAN access network.

The Policy node ISMP in the ANDSF MO remains unchanged and includes a prioritized list of 3GPP and WLAN access networks e.g. WLAN A priority 1 3GPP priority 2 WLAN B priority 3. This prioritized list can be used to define the relative priority of 3GPP access with respect to WLAN access or with respect to certain WLAN access networks. If the prioritized list of access networks in an ISMP rule include only WLAN access networks this list is not used since WLAN selection is based on WLANSP only. The ISRP node and the internal ForFlowBased ForServiceBased and ForNonSeamlessOffload nodes in the ANDSF MO remain unchanged. So the ISRP rules for IP flow mobility IFOM and for multiple access PDN connectivity MAPCON can still include a prioritized list of 3GPP and WLAN access networks e.g. WLAN A priority 1 3GPP priority 2 WLAN B priority 3. This prioritized list can be used to define the relative priority of 3GPP access with respect to WLAN access or with respect to certain WLAN access networks.

If the prioritized list of access networks in an ISRP for IFOM rule or in an ISRP for MAPCON rule include only WLAN access networks this list is not used for WLAN selection since WLAN selection is based on WLANSP only. The list is still used by the UE to make IP traffic routing decisions. The prioritized list of access networks in an ISRP for non seamless WLAN offloading NSWO rule is not used since WLAN selection is based on WLANSP only. The list is still used by the UE to make IP traffic routing decisions. It is assumed that the active ISMP ISRP rule in the UE can always be used to determine the relative priority of the most preferred WLAN selected based on the active WLANSP rule over 3GPP access.

A UE may be provisioned with multiple valid ISMP ISRP and WLANSP rules. Out of all these valid rules the UE selects and applies only two rules one WLANSP rule and either one ISMP or one ISRP rule. A rule applied by the UE is called an active rule. Specifically a UE that cannot simultaneously route IP traffic over multiple radio accesses selects an active ISMP rule and an active WLANSP rule while a UE that can simultaneously route IP traffic over multiple radio accesses selects an active ISRP rule and an active WLANSP rule.

When the UE is not roaming it selects the active ISMP ISRP rule and the active WLANSP rule to apply from the valid rules provided by the HPLMN based on the individual priorities of these rules or based on other criteria . For example the highest priority valid WLANSP rule is selected as the active WLANSP rule.

When the UE is roaming it may have valid rules from both HPLMN and VPLMN. In this case the UE is configured to either prefer WLAN access networks policies provided by the HPLMN or not. This configuration can be done either by the user or by the home ANDSF via the PreferVplmnWlans node. User configuration takes precedence over the home ANDSF configuration. If the UE is configured not to prefer WLAN access network policies provided by the HPLMN i.e. the VPLMN to which the UE is registered is included in the PreferVplmnWlans node then the UE selects the active WLANSP rule and the active ISMP ISRP rule from the valid rules provided by the VPLMN. If the UE is configured to prefer WLAN access networks policies provided by the HPLMN i.e. the VPLMN to which the UE is registered is not included in the PreferVplmnWlans node then the UE checks the WLANSP rule provided by the HPLMN and determines if any of the WLAN access networks in this rule are available. If at least one of these WLAN access networks is available or becomes available then the UE selects reselects the active WLANSP rule and the active ISMP ISRP rule from the valid rules provided by the HPLMN e.g. based on their priority values . If none of these WLAN access networks is available then the UE selects the active WLANSP rule and the active ISMP ISRP rule from the valid rules provided by the VPLMN.

During power up while UE has not registered to any PLMN the UE considers the WLANSP rules provided by the HPLMN as valid and selects an active WLANSP rule as described above e.g. the one with the highest priority . Thus during power up the UE can select a WLAN network based on the WLANSP rules provided by HPLMN.

After the UE selects an active ISMP ISRP rule and an active WLANSP rule as described above the active rules may interact to select a network. If the UE selects an active ISMP rule because it cannot simultaneously route IP traffic over multiple radio accesses the UE uses the active ISMP rule to determine if EPC connectivity is preferred over WLAN access or over 3GPP access. If EPC connectivity is preferred over WLAN access i.e. the highest priority access in the active ISMP rule corresponds to WLAN access technology the UE uses the active WLANSP rule to determine the most preferred available WLAN access network.

If the most preferred available WLAN access network has higher priority than 3GPP access according to the prioritized accesses in the active ISMP rule then the UE connects to EPC over the most preferred available WLAN access network. Otherwise the UE connects to EPC over 3GPP access. For example if the prioritized access networks in the active ISMP rule are the WLAN A priority 1 3GPP priority 2 WLAN B priority 3 then the UE determines that EPC connectivity is preferred over WLAN access because a WLAN access network WLAN A has higher priority than 3GPP access. Subsequently the UE uses the active WLANSP rule to determine the most preferred available WLAN access network. If the most preferred available WLAN access network has lower priority than 3GPP access e.g. WLAN B then the UE connects to EPC over 3GPP access. If the most preferred available WLAN access network has higher priority than 3GPP access e.g. WLAN A then the UE connects to EPC over most preferred available WLAN access network.

If the UE selects an active ISRP rule because it can simultaneously route IP traffic over multiple radio accesses the UE uses the active WLANSP rule to select and connect to the most preferred available WLAN access network. If an IP flow matches an active ISRP for IFOM rule which contains a prioritized list of access networks then the UE determines if the selected WLAN access network has higher priority than 3GPP access and routes the IP flow accordingly. For example the prioritized access networks in the active ISRP for IFOM rule are WLAN A priority may be 1 3GPP priority 2 WLAN B priority 3. Thus if the UE has selected WLAN B or any WLAN network with lower priority than 3GPP access it routes the IP flow over 3GPP access. If the UE has selected WLAN A or any WLAN network with higher priority than 3GPP access it routes the IP flow over WLAN access.

If the UE attempts a PDN connection establishment for an access point name APN that matches an active ISRP for MAPCON rule and if this rule contains a prioritized list of access networks then the UE determines if the selected WLAN access network has higher priority than 3GPP access and establishes the PDN connection accordingly. For example if the prioritized access networks in the active ISRP for MAPCON may be WLAN A priority 1 3GPP priority 2 WLAN B priority 3. Based on the foregoing if the UE has selected WLAN B or any WLAN network with lower priority than 3GPP access it establishes the PDN connection over 3GPP access. If the UE has selected WLAN A or any WLAN network with higher priority than 3GPP access it establishes the PDN connection over WLAN access. If an IP flow matches an active ISRP for NSWO rule the UE routes this IP flow over the selected WLAN access network.

The UE uses the active WLANSP rule to select the most preferred available WLAN access network and then performs EAP AKA EAP AKA authentication over this WLAN access network if EAP AKA EAP AKA authentication is needed . This WLAN selection is performed by the UE discovering the available WLANs and placing them in priority order based on the active WLANSP rule. For example the priority may result in WLAN 1 priority 1 WLAN 4 WLAN 2 priority 2 and WLAN 3 priority 3 . Then The UE selects the WLAN with the highest priority best match e.g. WLAN 1. If there are multiple WLANs with the same highest priority the UE selects the WLAN that interworks with the most preferred service provider in the PSP list. Finally for EAP AKA EAP AKA authentication if needed the UE determines from the PSP list which preferred service providers interwork with the selected WLAN and constructs a NAI that corresponds to the most preferred service provider. For example NAI if PSP A is the most preferred service provider that interworks with the selected WLAN.

It is noted that the EAP AKA EAP AKA authentication is only required when the UE decides to connect to the most preferred WLAN access network. The UE performs the WLAN selection based on the active WLANSP rule as described above without taking into account real time events associated with the active ISRP rule. The active ISRP rule is used only for routing decisions and does not impact the selection or reselection of the WLAN access network. For example when a new IP flow in the UE matches the traffic selector in the active ISRP rule this event should not trigger WLAN re selection. If the conditions for WLAN selection change every time a new application runs or when certain IP flows are detected the WLAN selection in the UE will be complex and may lead to frequent WLAN re selections that would negatively affect the user experience and the battery consumption. Events such as change of WLAN load information change of UE location change of time of day may lead to WLAN re selection based on the WLANSP rule.

The Preferred Service Providers List PSPL contains a list of 3GPP service providers preferred by the UE s 3GPP home operator. As specified above this list is used by the UE i to construct a NAI when it attempts EAP AKA EAP AKA authentication over a selected WLAN access network and ii to select a WLAN access network when there are multiple WLANs available that best match the preferences in the active WLANSP rule. The PSPL contains 3GPP Service providers that can be identified as realms possibly with the domain name derived from a PLMN identifier ID . This allows a UE to select the preferred 3GPP service provider to authenticate with upon selecting WLAN based among other information on the list of 3GPP service providers that the UE may discover from the WLAN AP e.g. by means of HS2.0 ANQP query if the AP is HS2.0 capable.

The UE uses the PSPL to identify whether a 3GPP service provider is an equivalent HPLMN or a 3GPP roaming partner. The PSPL also contains a policy whether or not a UE prefers the 3GPP RPLMN also for WLAN access. If the policy is set to prefer 3GPP RPLMN and the active ANDSF rule is provided by the 3GPP RPLMN the UE selects the 3GPP RPLMN or a PLMN equivalent to 3GPP RPLMN as the PLMN selected for WLAN access. If the active ANDSF rule is provided by another PLMN than the current 3GPP RPLMN or the policy is not set the UE uses the PSPL as described above. The PSPL is always provided by the HPLMN through a home ANDSF or can be statically provisioned in the UE. The UE shall ignore the PSPL information provided by the visited ANDSF if any. If the UE has both an MO from the visited ANDSF and the home ANDSF the UE uses only the PSPL of the home ANDSF MO.

Turning now to methods for WLAN network selection are provided. is a schematic flow chart diagram illustrating a method for network selection. The method may be performed by a UE or other mobile wireless device.

The method begins and a UE configured to communicate over a 3GPP network and a non 3GPP network is provided 402. The UE may include a communication component that include two or more radios. For example one radio may be configured to communicate over a 3GPP network and another radio may be configured to communicate over a non cellular network such as a WLAN.

A rules component stores an ANDSF MO that includes WLAN selection policies. In one embodiment the WLAN selection policies include I WLAN policies and ANQP parameters. For example the I WLAN policies may include policies for selecting a WLAN capable of I WLAN. The ANQP parameters may include parameters or values obtained through ANQP procedures. In one embodiment the ANQP parameters may include parameters or values based on the HS2.0 Release 2 specification.

A network selection component selects an available WLAN access network based on the WLAN selection policies of the ANDSF MO. For example the network selection component may select the WLAN based on the ANDSF MO as discussed above. In one embodiment the network selection component selects a WLAN previous to connecting to any PLMN. For example the network selection procedures used by the network selection component to select the WLAN access network may be performed after boot up during initial network selection and or if a 3GPP access network is unavailable.

The method begins and a discovery component discovers a set of available WLAN access networks. The discovery component may discover the WLAN access networks based on a single rule set stored by the rules component . For example the single rule set may include a single MO such as the ANDSF MO.

A network selection component prioritizes the available WLAN access networks based on WLAN selection policies within the single rule set. For example a list of available WLAN access networks may be prioritized based on HS2.0 parameters within the single rule set. These parameters may include location time of day network load or other parameters. Any other parameters or rules discussed herein may also be used to prioritize the WLAN access networks. For example operator controlled HPLMN controlled and or user controlled lists of preferred networks and or service providers may be used by the network selection component to prioritize the WLAN access networks.

The network selection component selects a WLAN access network with the highest priority. For example the network selection component may select the highest priority WLAN access network after the prioritizing the WLAN access networks. In one embodiment if there are two access networks with a same highest priority the network selection component may select the WLAN access network with a most preferred service provider.

The method begins and the network selection component prioritizes available WLAN access networks based on a consolidated WLAN selection policies within e.g. WLANSP node within a single MO. For example the network selection component may select a WLAN access network based on an ANDSF MO with consolidated network selection policies including I WLAN selection polices and or HS2.0 parameters. In one embodiment the single MO may include a PSPL e.g. the PSPL node .

In one embodiment the network selection component prioritizes the available WLAN access networks by comparing their attributes and or capabilities against the groups of selection criteria in an active WLANSP rule. For example the WLAN access networks that match the group of selection criteria with the highest priority are considered as the most preferred WLANs and the WLAN access networks that match the group of selection criteria with the second highest priority are considered as the second most preferred WLANs etc. The network selection component performs the WLAN network selection based on the active WLANSP rule.

The network selection component selects a highest priority WLAN access network that interworks with a most preferred service provider in a PSPL. For example the network selection component may select a WLAN access network with a highest priority based on how the network selection component prioritizes the available WLAN access networks. If there are multiple highest priority WLAN access networks multiple WLAN access networks with a same highest priority then the network selection component selects for example the highest priority WLAN access network that interworks with a service provider higher up in the PSPL or other list. The network selection component may compare available service providers to a list of alternate network identifiers such as realms OUIs roaming consortium IDs to select a highest priority service provider.

The communication component authenticates the UE using an NAI based on the PSPL. For example the communication component may authenticate the UE with a PLMN using EAP AKA EAP AKA authentication. The information for authentication may be included within the PSPL. The PSPL may include a list of preferred WLANs controlled by an HPLMN VPLMN or the like.

The communication component communicates 3GPP traffic over the selected WLAN access network. For example the communication component may route IP traffic over the WLAN access network.

The method begins and the ANDSF server stores an ANDSF MO that includes network selection rules for a UE or other mobile wireless device. The ANDSF MO may include one or more service provider identifiers for identifying preferred networks. In one embodiment the ANDSF MO stored by the ANDSF server may include rules based on realms OUIs roaming consortium IDs or other network identifiers or service provider identifiers.

The ANDSF server establishes communication with a UE . The UE may include a UE within a geographic area corresponding to the ANDSF server . The ANDSF server synchronizes at least a portion of the ANDSF MO with the UE . For example the UE may store a copy of the MO at the UE . The ANDSF server may synchronize the ANDSF MO with the UE in response to an update or change being made to the ANDSF MO. In one embodiment the portion of the ANDSF MO synchronized with the UE includes preferences for access networks corresponding to a preferred service provider. The ANDSF MO may indicate preferred services providers based on an SSID realm OUI or other identifier.

Example 1 is a UE that includes a communication component a rules component and a network selection component. The communication component is configured to communicate over a 3GPP network and a non cellular network. The rules component is configured to store an ANDSF MO that includes WLAN selection policies for network selection on the UE. The WLAN selection policies include I WLAN policies and HS2.0 parameters. The network selection component is configured to select an available WLAN access network based on the WLAN selection polices of the ANDSF MO.

In Example 2 the WLAN selection policies for network selection of Example 1 can optionally include policies required for WLAN network selection without referencing another MO.

In Example 3 the network selection component of Examples 1 2 can optionally select the available WLAN access network during initial network selection.

In Example 4 the WLAN selection policies of Examples 1 3 are optionally stored under a WLANSP sub tree of the ANDSF MO.

In Example 5 the WLAN selection policies of Examples 1 4 are optionally stored separately from an ISMP and an ISRP.

In Example 7 the WLAN selection policies of Examples 1 6 can optionally include preferred service provider policies.

In Example 8 the preferred service provider policies of Example 7 can optionally include a policy based on an NAI realm.

Example 9 is a UE configured to communicate with one or more of an eNB in a 3GPP LTE or LTE A network and a WLAN. The UE is configured to discover a set of available WLAN access networks. The UE is configured to prioritize the available WLAN access networks based on WLAN selection policies within a single rule set. The rule set includes WLAN selection policies based on HS2.0 parameters. The UE is configured to select a WLAN access network with a highest priority.

In Example 10 the WLAN selection policies of Example 9 can optionally include one or more of a policy based on an HS2.0 location parameter a policy based on an HS2.0 venue parameter a policy based on an HS2.0 access network type parameter and a policy based on an HS2.0 backhaul load parameter.

In Example 11 discovering the set of available WLAN access networks in Examples 9 10 can optionally include discovering HS2.0 parameters using access network query protocol ANQP .

In Example 12 the WLAN selection policies of Examples 9 11 can optionally include preferred service provider policies.

In Example 13 the UE of Examples 9 12 is optionally further configured to determine an active WLAN selection policy and the UE optionally prioritizes the available WLAN access networks based on the active WLAN selection policy.

In Example 14 the UE of Examples 9 13 can be optionally configured to apply one of an ISRP and an ISMP after prioritizing the available WLAN access networks.

Example 15 is a method for WLAN network selection. The method includes prioritizing available WLAN access networks based on a consolidated WLANSP within a single MO. The MO includes a PSPL and a PreferVplmnWlans. The method includes selecting a highest priority WLAN access network that interworks with a most preferred service provider in one of the PSPL and the PreferVplmnWlans. The method includes authenticating using a NAI based on one of the PSPL and the PreferVplmnWlans. The method further includes communicating 3GPP IP traffic over the selected WLAN access network.

In Example 16 the PSPL of Example 15 can optionally include one or more of an operator controlled list a user controlled list and a HPLMN controlled list.

In Example 17 selecting the highest priority WLAN of Examples 15 16 can optionally include in response to roaming to a preferred VPLMN selecting the highest priority WLAN access network that interworks with a most preferred service provider in the PreferVplmnWlans.

In Example 18 authenticating in Examples 15 17 can optionally include authenticating using EAP AKA EAP AKA authentication.

In Example 19 the PSPL of Examples 15 18 can optionally enable WLAN network selection without an SSID.

Example 20 is a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium storing program code for causing one or more processors to perform a method. The method includes storing an ANDSF MO indicating network selection rules for a mobile wireless device. The network selection rules include one or more service provider identifiers indicating service provider preferences. The method includes establishing communication with the mobile wireless device. The method further includes synchronizing at least a portion of the ANDSF MO with the mobile wireless device. The at least a portion of the ANDSF MO includes the one or more service provider identifiers.

In Example 21 synchronizing the at least the portion of the ANDSF MO in Example 20 can optionally include synchronizing the one or more service provider identifiers comprising an OUI.

In Example 22 the OUI of Example 21 can optionally include an OUI registered with an IEEE registration authority.

In Example 23 synchronizing the at least the portion of the ANDSF MO in Examples 20 22 can optionally include synchronizing the one or more service provider identifiers include an NAI realm.

Example 24 is a method for selecting a WLAN access network. The method includes communicating over a 3GPP network and a non cellular network. The method includes storing an ANDSF MO that includes WLAN selection policies for network selection on the UE. The WLAN selection policies include I WLAN policies and HS2.0 parameters. The method further includes selecting an available WLAN access network based on the WLAN selection polices of the ANDSF MO.

In Example 25 the WLAN selection policies for network selection of Example 24 can optionally include policies required for WLAN network selection without referencing another MO.

In Example 26 selecting the WLAN access network of Examples 24 25 can optionally include selecting the available WLAN access network during initial network selection.

In Example 27 the WLAN selection policies of Examples 24 26 are optionally stored under a WLANSP sub tree of the ANDSF MO.

In Example 28 the WLAN selection policies of Examples 24 27 are optionally stored separately from an ISMP and an ISRP.

In Example 30 the WLAN selection policies of Examples 24 29 can optionally include preferred service provider policies.

In Example 31 the preferred service provider policies of Example 30 can optionally include a policy based on an NAI realm.

Example 32 is a method for selecting a WLAN access network. The method includes communicating with one or more of an eNB in a 3GPP LTE or LTE A network and a WLAN. The method includes discovering a set of available WLAN access networks. The method includes prioritizing the available WLAN access networks based on WLAN selection policies within a single rule set. The rule set includes WLAN selection policies based on HS2.0 parameters. The method includes selecting a WLAN access network with a highest priority.

In Example 33 the WLAN selection policies of Example 32 can optionally include one or more of a policy based on an HS2.0 location parameter a policy based on an HS2.0 venue parameter a policy based on an HS2.0 access network type parameter and a policy based on an HS2.0 backhaul load parameter.

In Example 34 discovering the set of available WLAN access networks in Examples 32 33 can optionally include discovering HS2.0 parameters using ANQP.

In Example 35 the WLAN selection policies of Examples 32 34 can optionally include preferred service provider policies.

In Example 36 the method of Examples 32 35 can optionally further include determining an active WLAN selection policy. Prioritizing can optionally include prioritizing the available WLAN access networks based on the active WLAN selection policy.

In Example 37 the method of Examples 32 36 can be optionally include applying one of an ISRP and an ISMP after prioritizing the available WLAN access networks.

Example 38 is a method for WLAN network selection. The method includes prioritizing available WLAN access networks based on a consolidated WLANSP within a single MO. The MO further includes a PSPL and a PreferVplmnWlans. The method includes selecting a highest priority WLAN access network that interworks with a most preferred service provider in one of the PSPL and the PreferVplmnWlans. The method includes authenticating using an NAI based on one of the PSPL and the PreferVplmnWlans. The method further includes communicating 3GPP IP traffic over the selected WLAN access network.

In Example 39 the PSPL of Example 38 can optionally include one or more of an operator controlled list a user controlled list and a HPLMN controlled list.

In Example 40 selecting the highest priority WLAN of Examples 38 39 can optionally include in response to roaming to a preferred VPLMN selecting the highest priority WLAN access network that interworks with a most preferred service provider in the PreferVplmnWlans.

In Example 41 authenticating in Examples 38 40 can optionally include authenticating using EAP AKA EAP AKA authentication.

In Example 42 the PSPL of Examples 38 41 can optionally enable WLAN network selection without an SSID.

Example 43 is a method for synchronizing an ANDSF MO. The method includes storing an ANDSF MO indicating network selection rules for a mobile wireless device. The network selection rules include one or more service provider identifiers indicating service provider preferences. The method includes establishing communication with the mobile wireless device. The method includes synchronizing at least a portion of the ANDSF MO with the mobile wireless device. At least a portion of the ANDSF MO comprises the one or more service provider identifiers.

In Example 44 synchronizing the at least the portion of the ANDSF MO in Example 43 can optionally include synchronizing the one or more service provider identifiers comprising an OUI.

In Example 45 the OUI of Example 44 can optionally include an OUI registered with an IEEE registration authority.

In Example 46 synchronizing the at least the portion of the ANDSF MO in Examples 43 45 can optionally include synchronizing the one or more service provider identifiers include an NAI realm.

Example 48 is a machine readable storage including machine readable instructions that when executed implement a method or realize an apparatus of any of Examples 24 47.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

