---

title: Short pulse neutron generator
abstract: Short pulse neutron generators are described herein. In a general embodiment, the short pulse neutron generator includes a Blumlein structure. The Blumlein structure includes a first conductive plate, a second conductive plate, a third conductive plate, at least one of an inductor or a resistor, a switch, and a dielectric material. The first conductive plate is positioned relative to the second conductive plate such that a gap separates these plates. A vacuum chamber is positioned in the gap, and an ion source is positioned to emit ions in the vacuum chamber. The third conductive plate is electrically grounded, and the switch is operable to electrically connect and disconnect the second conductive plate and the third conductive plate. The at least one of the resistor or the inductor is coupled to the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09408286&OS=09408286&RS=09408286
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09408286
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130903
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The utility of neutron generators in various endeavors is well known. Neutron generators are commonly used in a diverse set of applications including oil well logging material detection imaging treatment monitoring of medical conditions etc. Conventional high fluence non active neutron generator technology is mostly based upon vacuum accelerator or radio frequency RF techniques. In an exemplary conventional neutron generator a relatively high voltage is used to accelerate deuterium D ions. The accelerated ions impact a metal target loaded with tritium T gas causing a deuterium tritium DT fusion reaction that produces neutrons. A device such as the neutron generator described above appeared in the literature in the early 1960s and the design continues to evolve with variations on the accelerator type power supply driver type size and output.

Relatively recently short pulse neutron generators have been introduced that generate a pulse of approximately 10neutrons over a length of time on the order of 25 to 50 nanoseconds. Conventional designs for short pulse neutron generators include the use of plasma focus devices PFD which may take a relatively long time to recharge e.g. twenty minutes to an hour .

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to neutron generators. With more particularity described herein are various technologies pertaining to short pulse neutron generators. In an exemplary embodiment a short pulse neutron generator can comprise a Blumlein configuration. The Blumlein configuration includes a first conductive plate that is coupled to a first voltage source that can output a relatively high voltage e.g. 50 kV 50 MV . The first conductive plate may also be referred to as a discharge plate.

The Blumlein configuration additionally includes a second conductive plate that is at least partially coplanar with the first conductive plate. The second conductive plate can be referred to as an initiation plate. At least one of a resistor or an inductor can be coupled to the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate wherein the at least one of the resistor or inductor has a relatively high impedance e.g. 10 M . In another exemplary embodiment the resistor or inductor can be of a value such that re charging of the second plate e.g. by way of the first plate can be accomplished in a fraction of a second such that repetition rates between approximately one hertz one kilo hertz are possible. The first conductive plate and the second conductive plate are positioned relative to one another such that a first gap is formed therebetween.

The Blumlein configuration further includes a third conductive plate that is electrically grounded. The third conductive plate can be arranged in parallel with the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate and can be separated from at least the first conductive plate by a dielectric material. A switch can be operable to electrically connect the second conductive plate with the third conductive plate and thus to ground and disconnect the second conductive plate from the third conductive plate.

A vacuum chamber is positioned in the first gap between the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate. The vacuum chamber includes a first electrode that has a target surface loaded with deuterium or tritium wherein the first electrode is electrically coupled to the first conductive plate. The vacuum chamber also includes a second electrode that is electrically coupled to the second conductive plate wherein the second electrode comprises a face that opposes the target surface of the first electrode the face and the target surface separated by a second gap e.g. an accelerating gap . The face of the second electrode forms a cavity such that the face of the second electrode is between the target surface and the cavity. In an exemplary embodiment the face may comprise a plurality of apertures extending therethrough.

An ion generator ion source can be positioned relative to the cavity such that the cavity is populated by ions generated by the ion generator. A second voltage source is coupled to the ion generator which can cause the ion generator to output for instance deuterium ions.

In operation the first voltage source outputs a relatively high voltage thereby charging the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate e.g. the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate have substantially equivalent voltages . Specifically the relatively high voltage applied to the first conductive plate can effectively cause a short circuit to form between the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate such that both conductive plates become equivalently charged. The ion generator is caused to populate the cavity in the vacuum chamber with a plurality of ions. Because the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate and thus the first electrode and the second electrode have an equivalent voltage the ions generated by the ion source remain relatively stationary in the cavity e.g. such ions are attracted to neither the first electrode nor the second electrode . The first voltage source may then cease to provide the relatively high voltage.

The switch that couples the second conductive plate with the third conductive plate can thereafter be closed resulting in a relatively rapid voltage drop at the second electrode while the voltage at the first electrode remains relatively high. For a relatively small amount of time e.g. 1 nanosecond 200 nanoseconds the first conductive plate and thus the first electrode retains the relatively high voltage attracting ions in the cavity formed by the face of the second electrode e.g. designed to let some ions escape to the target surface of the first electrode. Ions that escape the cavity impact the target surface of the first electrode producing a relatively short pulse of neutrons. The first conductive plate then discharges by way of the ions accelerated over the accelerating gap. Thereafter the switch can be opened and the first voltage source can be configured to output the relatively high voltage again charging both the first and the second conductive plates and thus the first electrode and the second electrode and the ion source can be configured to populate the cavity in the vacuum chamber with more ions. The exemplary short pulse neutron generator configured in the manner above can generate several short neutron pulses in a second compared to the several minutes or hours required by conventional short pulse neutron generators.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to short pulse neutron generators are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to short pulse neutron generators. An exemplary short pulse neutron generator described herein can output a neutron pulse having a pulse length of between one nanosecond and 100 nanoseconds. Furthermore an exemplary short pulse neutron generator described herein can generate neutron pulses relatively rapidly such as with a frequency of between 1 Hz and 2440 Hz or higher . The exemplary short pulse neutron generators described herein have a variety of applications including radiography and material identification. As a length in time of the pulse of neutrons generated by the exemplary short pulse neutron generator is relatively short harmful effects associated with conventional neutron generators may be avoided.

With reference now to a cross sectional view of an exemplary short pulse neutron generator is illustrated. The neutron generator comprises a Blumlein structure. The Blumlein structure includes a first conductive plate and a second conductive plate . At least a portion of the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate can be coplanar with one another with optional orthogonal extensions therefrom. The first conductive plate and the second conductive plate are positioned such that a gap separates the first conductive plate from the second conductive plate . At least one of a resistor or inductor with relatively high impedance e.g. 5 M 20 M can be placed between the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate . Recharge rate of the second conductive plate can be based upon the value of the impedance of the at least one of the resistor or inductor .

The Blumlein structure further includes a third conductive plate that is electrically grounded. The third conductive plate may be positioned in parallel with the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate wherein a dielectric material separates the first conductive plate from the third conductive plate and further optionally separates the second conductive plate from the third conductive plate . The Blumlein structure can further comprise a switch that is configured to connect and disconnect the second conductive plate to and from the third conductive plate . In an exemplary embodiment the switch can be a spark gap.

The first conductive plate the second conductive plate and the third conductive plate can be composed of any suitable conductive material including copper steel titanium or the like. The dielectric material may also be any suitable dielectric material including porcelain glass a plastic etc.

The neutron generator additionally includes a vacuum chamber positioned in the gap between the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate . A first electrode is included in the vacuum chamber and extends from the first conductive plate . The first electrode includes a target surface that can be loaded with tritium and or deuterium. A second electrode is also included in the vacuum chamber and extends from the second conductive plate . The second electrode comprises a face wherein the face forms a cavity the face positioned between the cavity and the target surface . The face of the second electrode opposes the target surface of the first electrode the face of the second electrode separated from the target surface of the first electrode by an accelerating gap. In an exemplary embodiment the accelerating gap can be between 0.1 centimeter and 2 centimeters. Further the face can comprise a plurality of apertures extending therethrough.

An ion generator can be positioned to emit ions into the cavity . Accordingly as shown the ion generator can be positioned in the cavity . In another exemplary embodiment the ion generator can be external to the vacuum chamber but can be configured to emit ions into the cavity .

A first voltage source which is configured to output a relatively high voltage e.g. between 50 kV and 50 MV is electrically connected to the first conductive plate . A second voltage source is electrically connected to the ion generator and is configured to drive the ion generator thereby causing the ion generator to generate ions.

Operation of the short pulse neutron generator is now described. The switch is opened disconnecting the first voltage source the first conductive plate the at least one of the resistor or the inductor and the second conductive plate from the third conductive plate and thus from ground . The first voltage source outputs a relatively high voltage creating a short circuit between the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate resulting in the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate retaining an electrical charge e.g. having an equivalent voltage . The second voltage source is then configured to drive the ion generator causing the ion generator to populate the cavity with ions. As the voltage of the first conductive plate and thus the first electrode and the second conductive plate and thus the second electrode are equivalent the ions in the cavity are not attracted to either of the first electrode or the second electrode . Population of the cavity with ions while voltage of the first electrode and the second electrode are approximately equivalent can be referred to as pre filling the cavity .

Once the cavity is sufficiently populated with ions the first voltage source ceases to output the relatively high voltage and the switch is closed. Responsive to the switch closing voltage of the second conductive plate and thus the second electrode rapidly drops while the voltage of the first conductive plate and thus the first electrode remains relatively high. The ions in the cavity are thus attracted to the first electrode and ions proximate to the face exit the cavity by way of the apertures and are accelerated over the accelerating gap towards the target surface of the first electrode . Such ions impact the tritium or deuterium in the target surface forming neutrons that are isotropically emitted from the vacuum chamber .

The first conductive plate discharges via the ions accelerated in the gap between the first electrode and the second electrode wherein the current of accelerated ions can be several milli amperes mA to thousands of amperes kA as determined by a production strength of the ion generator size of the cavity and ultimately a number of neutrons desired by an operator of the neutron generator . The discharge time duration is controlled by the dimensions of the first conductive plate the second conductive plate and the third conductive plate in an axis perpendicular to the first electrode and the second electrode e.g. along the x axis . The current magnitude is controlled by the dimensions of the first conductive plate the second conductive plate and the third conductive plate in an axis parallel to the first electrode and the second electrode e.g. along the z axis .

Responsive to the first conductive plate discharging the switch can be opened and the first voltage source can be configured to output the relatively high voltage thereby charging the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate . This process can repeat relatively rapidly such as on the order of 60 Hz 120 Hz 240 Hz or 2400 Hz. As indicated above the switch may be a spark gap. In another exemplary embodiment the switch can be or include a Silicon controlled rectifier SCR a high power MOS FET based solid state switching arrangement etc. Thus another voltage source can drive or trigger the spark gap or solid state based switch causing a short to occur between the second conductive plate and the third conductive plate for example when the spark gap is fired.

It can be ascertained that dimensions of portions of the neutron generator can be selected based upon desired duration of a neutron pulse a number of neutrons desirably generated by the neutron generator etc. For instance as length of the first conductive plate and or the second conductive plate increases a duration of a voltage pulse at the first electrode increases. Further distance between the target surface and the face can be selected based upon a desired discharge rate of the first conductive plate . Moreover a number of ion generators position of ion generators size of the cavity size of the target surface etc. can be selected based upon a volume of neutrons desirably generated.

Other exemplary embodiments are now described. While the target surface of the first electrode and the face of the second electrode are shown as being planar in nature it is to be understood that the target surface and or the face may have a three dimensional curved profile such as a three dimensional elliptical surface a surface with a Rogowsky profile or a surface with a Chen profile. In another example while the face has been described as comprising apertures extending therethrough it is to be understood that the face can be designed with a curved profile or L shape in such a manner that ions can escape the cavity . For instance the cavity may be only partially enclosed.

In another exemplary embodiment the first voltage source can be an AC voltage source that continuously provides voltage to the first conductive plate . In such an embodiment the second voltage source is timed relative to the first voltage source to populate the cavity when the first conductive plate is nearing completion of discharge and beginning to re charge. The switch is timed with a frequency that corresponds to the frequency of the first voltage source . In still yet another exemplary embodiment the target surface can form a second cavity and a second ion generator not shown can be positioned to populate the second cavity with ions. The face of the second electrode can be loaded with deuterium and or tritium and the relative polarities of the first electrode and second electrode can alternate. Accordingly ions are accelerated in both directions in the accelerating gap depending upon the relative polarities of the first electrode and the second electrode . Further the discharge chamber can optionally include polarized rods that are positioned relative to the ion generator and the face of the second electrode to prevent secondary electron emissions. For instance polarized rods can extend along the length of the cavity e.g. along the x axis directing the ions towards the face and the apertures therethrough.

The ion source can be any suitable ion source. For instance the ion source can be a relatively high current surface discharge ion source that is capable of de sorbing loaded deuterium and ionizing such deuterium at approximately the same time. With more specificity the ion source can comprise a thin film of titanium scandium or other suitable metal that includes deuterium loaded thereon. Furthermore the ion source may comprise two opposing electrodes an array of series electrodes or an array of parallel electrodes. An exemplary ion source can be composed of two opposing electrodes made of tritium erbium or scandium loaded with deuterium such that deuterium gas is released as the temperature rises which occurs as current flows. That is ions are formed by the electron flow from the opposite electrode.

Now referring to a cross sectional view of another exemplary short pulse neutron generator is illustrated. The exemplary neutron generator comprises a first conductive plate and a second conductive plate . The first conductive plate includes a first portion that extends laterally in a first plane and a second portion that extends orthogonally from the first portion at an end of the first portion . The second conductive plate comprises a first portion that extends laterally in parallel with the first portion of the first conductive plate and beyond the second portion of the first conductive plate . The second conductive plate also includes a second portion that extends orthogonally from the first portion of the second conductive plate at an end thereof and in parallel with the second portion of the first conductive plate . A gap is formed between the second portion of the first conductive plate and the second portion of the second conductive plate .

The vacuum chamber can be positioned in the gap and can comprise the first electrode having the target surface the second electrode having the face that forms the cavity and the ion source as described above.

A switch such as a spark gap electrically connects and disconnects the first voltage source to and from the first conductive plate . A dielectric material is positioned in a gap between the first portion of the first conductive plate and the first portion of the second conductive plate .

Operation of the exemplary neutron pulse generator is now described. The switch can be opened such that both the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate are uncharged. The second voltage source drives the ion generator causing the ion generator to populate the cavity with ions. When the cavity includes a sufficient number of ions the switch is closed causing the first conductive plate to be charged for a relatively short amount of time. Ions in the pre filled cavity can escape for example through apertures of the face and impact tritium or deuterium loaded into the target surface of the second electrode . The switch may then be opened causing the first conductive plate to discharge by way of the ions accelerated from the second electrode to the first electrode in the accelerating gap.

With reference now to an isometric view of the short pulse neutron generator is illustrated. As shown the target surface and the face of the second electrode can have a three dimensional curved profile. For instance the target surface and the surface of the face may have a three dimensional elliptical shape. Moreover the ion source can be positioned in the cavity formed by the elliptical shape of the face of the first electrode . Additionally the switch is shown as being a spark gap that when fired creates a short circuit between the second conductive plate and the third conductive plate . illustrates another isometric view of the exemplary neutron generator .

With reference now to an isometric view of the vacuum chamber is illustrated. The ion source is shown as comprising a plurality of ion generators which are arranged in matrix form to populate the cavity formed by the curved surface of the face of the second electrode with ions. As shown the face includes a plurality of apertures extending therethrough such that ions proximate to the face in the cavity can escape the cavity and be accelerated across the accelerating gap thereby impacting the target surface of the first electrode . When the ions impact the deuterium or tritium on the target surface neutrons are generated and escape isotropically from the vacuum chamber .

Turning now to an exemplary methodology for forming a short pulse neutron generator is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a first conductive plate a second conductive plate a third conductive plate a dielectric material a switch and at least one of a resistor and or inductor are positioned relative to one another to form a Blumlein structure. For example as noted above the first conductive plate can be positioned relative to the second conductive plate such that the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate are coplanar and separated by a gap. Further the third conductive plate can be positioned in parallel with the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate such that the third conductive plate is separated by a gap from the first conductive plate and is further separated by a gap from the second conductive plate. The dielectric material can fill at least the gap between the first conductive plate and the third conductive plate. Moreover forming the Blumlein structure can include positioning the at least one of the resistor or the inductor such that the at least one of the resistor or the inductor is coupled to the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate.

At an ion generator is positioned in the gap between the first conductive plate and the second conductive plate in the Blumlein structure. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to an exemplary methodology for operating a short pulse neutron generator is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an initiation conductive plate and a discharge conductive plate are charged through utilization of a relatively high voltage source e.g. 50 kV 1 MV 50 MV etc. . At an ion generator is caused to populate pre fill a cavity with ions the cavity positioned in a vacuum chamber the vacuum chamber positioned in a gap of a Blumlein structure. At the initiation conductive plate is electrically connected to ground leaving the discharge conductive plate with an electric charge that attracts ions in the cavity. Such ions can be attracted to a target surface loaded with deuterium or tritium thereby producing neutrons. At the initiation conductive plate is disconnected from ground. The methodology then returns to where the methodology can repeat indefinitely.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

