---

title: Golf course fitting system
abstract: A method, device and computer program product for a golf course searching system. Various characteristics of golf courses are stored in a database. A user may log onto the golf course searching system and define parameters of a golf course of interest and the system will output information about which golf courses the user should pursue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081815&OS=09081815&RS=09081815
owner: P3 DESIGNS, LLC
number: 09081815
owner_city: Southern Pines
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130408
---
The present application is a non provisional application of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 621 934 entitled GOLF COURSE FITTING SYSTEM and filed on Apr. 9 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Golf courses are generally found some distance from population centers and all over the world. Golfers enjoy playing various types of golf courses but most golfers do not know any information about most of the golf courses around the world and must actually play the golf course to learn about the characteristics of that golf course. However there is no way for golfers to know about golf courses that the golfers have not played or golf courses that would fit what a golfer is looking for.

A method device and computer program product for a golf course searching system. Various characteristics of golf courses are stored in a database. A user can log onto the golf course searching system and define parameters of a golf course of interest and the system will output information about which golf courses the user should pursue.

providing an interface to search a golf course database comprising a different database entry for each golf course 

receiving using a computer of a user over a network a design of a golf course wherein the design indicates at least two of a desired style of a golf course a desired golf course layout a desired golf course sand difficulty level a desired golf course water difficult level or a desired golf course length level 

providing the user with results of the query where the results comprises a list of golf courses that meet the design via the query so as to allow the user to select a golf course from one of the results.

record data for each golf hole of the golf course whereby the data for each golf hole comprises the golf hole orientation an amount of regulation sand shots and an amount of regulation water hazard shots 

calculate using a computer a sand score by summing the amount of regulation sand shots for all holes of the golf course and dividing by the number of regulation golf shots 

calculate a water score by summing the amount of regulation water shots for all holes of the golf course and dividing by the number of regulation golf shots 

calculate a total amount of dog leg right holes dog leg left holes and straight holes for the golf course and

save in a database entry for the golf course the personality score of the golf course comprising the golf course style design the total length the total amount of sand points the total amount of water points and the total amount of dog leg right holes dog leg left holes and straight holes for the golf course.

providing an interface to search a golf course database comprising a different database entry for each golf course 

receiving using a computer of a user over a network a design of a golf course wherein the design indicates at least two of a desired style of a golf course a desired golf course layout a desired golf course sand difficulty level a desired golf course water difficult level or a desired golf course length level 

providing the user with results of the query where the results comprises a list of golf courses that meet the design via the query so as to allow the user to select a golf course from one of the results.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As used herein a class may define an abstract characteristic of a thing or object such as a group of code or instructions for performing a particular operation or function. The abstract characteristics may include characteristics of the thing or object for example attributes fields or properties behaviors such as functions or methods that can be performed by the class. An object is a particular instance of a class. The set of values of the attributes of a particular object is the state of the object. The object includes the state and the behavior that is defined in the object s class. A method is an object s abilities or functions the object can perform.

Prior to discussing various embodiments of the present invention a brief discussion of some of the terms used herein will now be discussed. The term Parkland Style Golf Courses relates to golf courses having the following characteristics moderate to heavy tree coverage has ornamental bushes trees and grasses golf course designer manipulated land contours in order to smooth out fairway surfaces mostly manicured shorter grasses with rich dark green color and mostly located inland. The term Hearthland Style Golf Courses relates to golf courses having the following characteristics little to moderate tree coverage has natural bushes and grass golf course designer manipulated land contours in order to smooth out fairway surfaces mix of natural tall grasses manicured shorter grasses and located both coastal inland. The term Links Style Golf Courses relates to golf courses having the following characteristics little to no trees has natural brushes and grass natural land contours with little or no work done to smooth out fairway surfaces mostly natural tall coastal grasses and traditionally located on or near coastal areas. The term Desert Style Golf Courses relates to golf courses having the following characteristics little to moderate tree coverage has natural rocks sand and cacti golf course designer manipulated land contours in order to smooth out fairway surfaces mostly manicured shorter grasses and mostly inland desert regions. The term Mountain Style Golf Courses relates to golf courses having the following characteristics moderate to heavy tree coverage has ornamental bushes trees and grasses golf course designer manipulated land contours in order to smooth out fairway surfaces mostly manicured shorter grasses traditionally feature large elevation changes throughout the course and mostly inland mountainous or hilly regions.

The term Regulation Golf Shot as discussed with regard to relates to a full length golf shot hit from the tee box or the fairway of a golf hole based on the par for the hole. Regulation golf shots do not include putts . Example of regulation shots for a par hole Par golf holes are designed for golfers to be able to tee off from the tee box and reach the green in one regulation golf shot then take two putts for a total Par of . Example of regulation shots for a par hole Par golf holes are designed for golfers to be able to tee off from the tee box and reach the green in two regulation golf shots then take two putts for a total Par of . Example of regulation shots for a par hole Par golf holes are designed for golfers to be able to tee off from the tee box and reach the green in three regulation golf shots then take two putts for a total Par of .

A general summary of some aspects of the invention will now be discussed. Embodiments of the present invention relate to a golf course fitting system GCFS which is a software application configured to be embedded in a computer readable medium and run using hardware discussed herein. The software application is a golf course search engine that allows golfers to search for golf courses based on the basic physical design elements of the golf course. This allows golfers to quickly find golf courses that will fit their playing preferences. The application s graphical user interfaces allow users to design a golf course tee to green personality with menu options and 3D animations. The golf course animations give the user instant feedback on how their classification choices are affecting the tee to green personality design they are creating.

The tee to green personality relates to a golf course personality formula. The formula takes the basic design characteristics of a golf course and classifies each characteristic based on a detailed analysis of the golf course design. Specific golf course design characteristics are selected for the formulas that may be uniform and consistently represented by all golf courses. The uniform classification of these golf course characteristics into a tee to green personality score allows all golf courses to be sorted by these common design characteristics. The tee to green personality formula may take five different design characteristics of a golf course style layout sand water and length. Each of these five characteristics is given a specific classification based on a unique formula. A sixth characteristic that is taken into account and given a classification may be the difficulty of the golf course. The individual classifications are then combined to formulate the overall tee to green personality score for the golf course. The golf course fitting system GCFS then matches the user to golf courses e.g. the tee to green personality score that fit their preferences based on characteristics that the user desires. The results of the golf course fitting can be filtered further by other parameters such as location of the golf courses and the green fee prices as illustrated in . The tee to green personality score may made up of six criteria or more but should not be limited in any way to the above identified criteria. The score may include two or more characteristics such as style and layout. Therefore only some of the characteristics may be employed or all of the characteristics. Additionally additional characteristics may further be included to the possible characteristics and thus the present disclosure should not be limited to the six characteristics explicitly discussed above.

After a search is initiated the system then matches the user to golf courses that fit their playing preferences. All golf courses are stored in a secure database housing each golf courses classification scores for each element so that the golf courses can be sorted and ordered by the users selections.

Therefore the GCFS allows golfers to search for golf courses research golf courses select where to book tee times book golf travel and play golf relate to golf courses and talk about golf course design and playability. The GCFS may be equally used for mobile applications on mobile devices as well. It may also be used for duplication on website platforms.

The following is a more descriptive overview of the GCFS in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention.

The GCFS includes a database as discussed later whereby golf courses and their characteristics are inputted to. This process is discussed with regard to . In a particular golf course is selected or identified. This golf course is then analyzed and the characteristics and data thereof are inputted into the database as disclosed below.

In block of a golf course is selected for determining a golf course personality score card which will be used to evaluate each one at a time in order to accumulate the data necessary to give the golf course a personality score.

In block a person may locate images drawings maps and other information of the golf course layout and design. Alternatively a person may actually walk the golf course to obtain information about the course e.g. sand trap information water locations distances etc. . A person may then analyze every hole to determine the style layout sand score water score length score and difficulty score. The total of all of these scores for all 18 holes may then be used to determine the total score for each category for that golf course. Each of the style layout sand score water score length score and difficulty score are discussed below.

In block a total par is determined. This is the number of non putting strokes which is the total par strokes for 18 holes minus the number of two putts per hole i.e. minus 36 . Thus if a course is par then the total par score i.e. non putting strokes is 36.

Layout. A score for the layout of the golf score is determined. One aspect of the layout is the number of doglegs L S R sand hazards water hazards for each regulation shot on the golf course.

In block the dog leg score for each golf hole is determined. This means determining which of the 18 holes are dog leg left L dog leg right R or straight S . For example hole and may be a dog leg left holes holes and may be dog left right holes and holes and may be straight. As illustrated in each of the images presented to the user will change based on the selection the dogleg left or right or straight.

In block once the total dogleg scores are tallied for all 18 holes the total number of left straight and right scores are compared. In block if the golf course has a predetermined amount e.g. four or more of holes that are dogleg left vs. dogleg right then the course is given a classification of left or L . In block if the golf course has a predefined amount e.g. four or more of holes that are dogleg right vs. dogleg left then the course is given a classification of Right or R . In block if the difference of doglegs is less than a certain amount e.g. four then the golf course is given a classification of Balanced or B .

Sand The next characteristic is the sand score. As shown in block the total sand score is determined. Each time a sand hazard must be avoided for a regulation golf shot e.g. a shot in the fairway or where the ball is likely to be hit from it is given a sand score of 1 and is added to the total sand score for the course. For example if a ball is on the tee box and the golfer is aiming for the green or for the center of the fairway if the golfer has to hit over a sand trap that will add one point to the sand score. For the next regulation shot to determine if any sand traps are in play the user places the ball where an average hit from the teebox would land and so where one expects an average golfer will hit from the fairway. The user then determines how many sand traps are in the way of the next shot. Thus for each shot it is assumed that the golfer is aiming for either the center of the fairway or the center of the green. If any sand traps are within the line of sight from a direct line traversing from the ball lie to the center of the fairway or to the green is within a distance for an average hitter from that lie then those sand traps would add to the sand score.

All of the regulation sand scores are totaled for all of the holes of the course and then divided by the total number of regulation golf shots there are for the golf course according to the par of the golf course. This determines the overall percentage of time the golfer will have to avoid sand on all regulation golf shots. The overall percentage then determines whether a golf course has a sand classification of one two or three . A classification of one representing a small amount of sand means the golfer will encounter a sand hazard on up to a first predefined percentage e.g. 69 of all regulation golf shots. A classification of two representing a moderate amount of sand means the golfer will encounter a sand hazard on up to a second predefined percentage e.g. 89 of all regulation golf shots. A classification of three representing a significant amount of sand means the golfer will encounter a sand hazard on over the second predefined percentage e.g. 90 100 of all regulation golf shots.

Water In block the total water score is determined. Each time a water hazard must be avoided for a regulation golf shot it is given a score of 1 . All of the regulation water shot scores are totaled for all holes and then divided by the total number of regulation golf shots there are for the golf course according to the par of the golf course. This determines the overall percentage of time the golfer will have to avoid water on all regulation golf shots. The overall percentage then determines whether a golf course has a water classification of one two or three . A classification of one representing a small amount of water means the golfer will encounter a water hazard on up to a first predetermined percentage e.g. 24 of all regulation golf shots. A classification of two representing a moderate amount of water means the golfer will encounter a water hazard on up to a second predetermined percentage e.g. 49 of all regulation golf shots. A classification of three representing a significant amount of water means the golfer will encounter a water hazard on over the second predetermined percentage e.g. 50 or more of all regulation golf shots.

Length In block the total length score is determined. A classification of one represents a short golf course where maximum length is up to a first predefined yardage amount such as 6499 yards. A classification of two representing a moderate length golf course where maximum length is up to a second predefined yardage amount such as 6998 yards. A classification of three representing a golf course of significant length where maximum length is greater than the second predefined yardage amount such as 6999 yards or longer. This same classification system will be used to evaluate course length for women s tee and senior tees.

Difficulty In block the difficulty is determined as a classification of one two or three based on the overall difficulty of the golf course considering all of the statistical data available. This difficulty may be pulled from other databases or may be a subjective calculation using all of the above discussed characteristics. illustrate all of the characteristics presented above in each image presented to the user based on the difficulty score selected by the user. Other factors may also be included in the difficulty score in addition to the above characteristics such as topography amount of trees other hazards wind temperature climate etc.

Style In block each golf course in the database is analyzed and then receives a classification by evaluating the location design vegetation grass type and aesthetics. The classifications may be of Parkland corresponding to a P score Heathland corresponding to a H score Links corresponding to a L score Desert corresponding to a D score or Mountain corresponding to a M score . As mentioned above a person evaluating the golf course makes a decision on what style a course is by evaluating the design geography grass types and visual surroundings of the golf course. illustrates an example of the Parkland Style. illustrates an example of the Heathland Style. illustrates an example of the Desert Style. illustrates an example of the Links Style. illustrates an example of the Mountain Style.

All six characteristics i.e. style layout sand score water score length score and difficulty score create a total personality score in accordance with one embodiment. The golf courses are entered into the database by inputting the personality score along with other relevant golf course information to display to users. An example is Golf Course ABC Personality Score of PL2233 as shown in which means that the style is Parkland the layout is dogleg left the sand score is a 2 the water score is a 2 the length score is a 3 and the overall difficulty is a 3 .

In block all of the above characteristics and calculations are entered in a database and stored associated with the respective golf course. Other information is also stored in the database entries including the location of the golf courses costs associated with playing the golf courses the golf course designer location specific information e.g. temperatures under construction info etc. golf course images that were used in calculating the golf course score personality hole analysis recommendations for playing each hole expert commentary history of the golf course and any other information about the golf courses are saved to the database.

In block the user interface allows users to search for golf courses by selecting a golf course personality based on the criteria listed. In for example a user selects golf course with a personality score of PB2233 in block the user hits search and sends the query to the database.

In block the database filters all golf courses using the user s search parameters. In one embodiment the user may weight each parameter of the golf course. For example if the golfer really wanted to emphasis the sand score the user can place a 10 by the sand score parameter and 1s by the other parameters. This would indicate to the system to return and sort the results with the sand score as highest.

The GCFS User Interface The GCFS user interface allows golfers to create their very own tee to green personality based on the same six criteria as the golf courses. Golfers select from each of the six criteria from a menu on the right side of their screen and choose the classifications that define their playing preferences the best. As they are creating and revising their preferences the fitting system gives them a real time visual display of a sample golf hole on the left side of their screen. This allows the system to instantly communicate back to the golfer the physical attributes that a golf course will have based on the tee to green personality score that they are creating. Ultimately this tool allows the user to communicate with the GCFS in a visually stimulating format that is interesting and creative all the while feeding the system the information it needs to match them to a golf course that fits their playing preferences. Once the user is satisfied with their tee to green personality score they submit it to the system to instantly give the user a list of golf courses that fit their preferences the best. The list of golf courses is displayed along with a graphic that shows the user the accuracy of their match in percentage format as well as a chart showing which of the six scores matched and which ones did not.

At FIGS. A and the application s interface allows users to design a golf course tee to green personality. The golf course animations e.g. actual or cartoon images of the hole of the golf course scenes or locations of golf courses etc. change according to their selections to give the user instant feedback on how their choices are affecting the tee to green personality design.

 Each menu option expands when it is clicked on so that the user can select their classification choices for each golf course design element.

In block an interface is presented to the user allowing the user to enter one or more of the six characteristics of the golf course personality the tee to green personality . For example the user may select PC2233 or just a sand score of 3 or a combination of water score of 2 and a difficulty of 1 . This is represented by block whereby the user can select the style See layout see sand score see water score see length score see or difficulty see or any combination thereof. As shown in the user just need to change the input parameters from 1 3 for the sand water length or difficulty and change the layout to L R or B as well as the style between the 5 styles H L P etc. . This is done in the graphical user interface.

In addition to block the user may also filler the golf course query terms to include the city state zip code price golf destination or golf course name as indicated in block .

In block one the user is satisfied with the criteria they have chosen for their Tee To Green Personality they click the search button to submit their classifications to the database.

In block the user s selections are used to sort the secure database housing all golf courses and their classification scores. The golf courses that match the user s criteria the best are sent back to the results page display on the user interface for the user to review. The system then queries the database to sort the results and return the results that match the parameters of the user s search. Different sorting routines may be used as is discussed below.

In some embodiments the system may use a weighting method to sort the database and display the results and percentage match. For example in one embodiment style is weighted first layout is weighted second sand is weighted third water is weighted forth length is weighted fifth and difficulty is weighted sixth. Each category may be sorted in this order to produce the results that are sent back to the user.

It should be understood that other weighting orders are possible to sort the database by the users selections. Examples of other weighting schemes are provided below.

In one embodiment there is no weighting but there is a sorting of each category equally and then a displaying of the results. For example if the user wants to see all golf courses that have a sand score of 2 the system then filters out all of the golf courses that do not have a 2 score. Then the user can filter the results for all courses that are a Links course L style score . The system then filters all of the golf courses with a 2 sand score that also have an L style. The user can then select one of the results or further filter the results with other characteristics or other parameters.

In another embodiment the system allows the user to weight the six characteristics or categories with a 1 through 6 or other weighting methodologies in any order the user desires. For example if the user wants to weight the difficulty as a 5 out of 6 and the sand score as a 2 out of 6 because possibly the user wants a tough golf course but easy with regard to sand traps the user can provide such a selection. The system then will retrieve the requested data.

In yet another embodiment the system allows the user to create their own weights or priorities of each category as they make their selections on the user interface. For example the user can select the weighting system 1 to 100 1 to 10 easy medium or hard etc. . The system will then correlate the new weighting system to currently stored data. For example if the user defined the weighting system to be easy medium or hard the system will interpret easy as a value of 1 medium as a value of 2 and hard as a value of 3 and search the system using the numerical values.

In yet another embodiment the system allows the user to select NA or don t care for the categories they are not concerned about and these unselected categories would not affect the search results.

There are other methods that could be used to create a personality score for a golf course. For example a scoring system could evaluate sand and water hazards for each regulation shot but it could also factor which side of the hole the hazard is on. This would allow for additional information to be used in order to determine whether a golf course favors the left side or the right side. This could help determine what kind of ball flight a golfer might prefer to play on a specific golf course. For example some golf courses are easier on the left side of the course and some golf courses are easier on the right side of the golf course as illustrated in block

Another way to score sand and water would be to simply add up the total amount of these types of hazards on the golf course rather than how many times a regulation shot might hit one of these hazards during a round of golf. The total number could be calculated and then broken into separate classes in order to rank them. Moreover the total number of each hazard type could be added to the hole by hole scoring system to give the calculation one more component.

Another way to score sand water and length would be to have more classes than three. Each parameter could be given an unlimited amount of classes in order to get a very precise score for each parameter for the user. Or each parameter could be given 4 5 6 7 etc. amount of classes to sort the information with more detail.

Another way to evaluate golf course personalities would be to have certified people such as PGA professionals or other experts in the game of golf to analyze the golf courses by using their personal opinion and expert analysis of the golf course design and layout. PGA professionals or other experts in the game of golf could fill out a standardized golf course personality scorecard based on a scoring system like the ones mentioned and then submit the results for entry into the database.

Another way to evaluate a golf course would be to have the general public submit what they think the personality score should be after playing a round of golf at that golf course or walking the golf course or because they are a member or person who has a lot of experience playing a particular golf course. Golfers could then log into a website and enter what they think the score should be. Or golfers could log into a website and access and standardized scorecard to fill out that has a systematic scoring system like the ones we have mentioned and then submit for entry into the database.

Another way to evaluate a golf course would be to combine statistical data and personal opinion of either an expert in the game of golf or the general public or a combination of both to give the final golf course personality score a combination of both statistics and opinion. The computer stats could be given a certain weight and the personal opinion votes could be given a certain weight.

Another way to evaluate a golf course would be to add more categories to the golf course personality score types of grasses record the types of grasses used green difficulty record the slopes grass types and typical speeds of greens fairway Difficulty record mounds grass types hills and obstacles number of forced carries these are areas that the golfer must be able to hit his or her ball over in the air in order to carry over it there is not an option to roll the ball along the ground how narrow each hole is with regard to 1 fairway width and 2 proximity to hazards and types of specials the golf course offers or the types of tee times the golf course sells to the public example 9 hole rounds walking rounds military rates senior rates early morning rounds league rounds singles golf couples golf junior golf lessons or tournaments .

There are different methods that could be used for the user interface to gather data and build a golf course personality score made by the user to match to the database. These will be discussed below.

One way the user interface could gather data is by using sliders or buttons with only text and no animations to allow the user to build a golf course personality score.

Another way the user interface could gather data is by using animations and a touch screen desk monitor or a touch screen hand held monitor Pad or smart phone and allow the user to manipulate the animations by using their fingers to expand and contract the sand bunkers water hazards length difficulty and course style.

Yet another way the user interface could gather data is by having images of sand bunkers water hazards bumps mounds tee boxes and the user selects these images from the menu and then drags them into the hole graphic where the images are placed and then resized to create a golf course personality that the user likes.

Another way the user interface could gather data is to ask users questions textually or verbally recorded about what kind of shots they like to hit and what kinds of experiences they like to have during a round of golf. For example the question may be do you like difficult putts and the database would sort results by golf course green difficulty rankings according to the users answer. By way of another example the question may be do you like to curve your golf shots to the left and the database would sort results by golf courses that are left dogleg dominant or that are easier on the left side. As another example the question presented to a golfer may be do you like to hit out of sand and the database would sort results by golf courses sand rankings according to the users answer.

Still yet another way the user interface could gather data would be to list detailed descriptions of the classes and choices that the user has to pick from and they click on whatever choices they want to build their golf course personality score. For example the user would be presented with the prompt I want a golf course that playsclick one of the following choices with the following options A 6500 yards of less B 6501 7000 yards and C 7001 yards or longer. The user would answer this question and the database sort the result accordingly.

Another way the user interface could gather data would be to ask the user questions and allow them to fill in the blank for answers. For example the system would prompt I would like to play a golf course that plays at leastlong fill in the blank . The user then writes 7000 in the blank space.

Another way the user interface could gather data is to have the user log into an interface or email questionnaire that prompts them to simply use their own words to describe the type of golf course that they would like to play. The results could then be reviewed by a person who then finds a golf course in the database that best matches their description and sends them the results. Alternatively the results could then be reviewed by a computer program that searches for Key words and then locates golf courses in the database that have matching key words to describe the type of design that they are.

In block the results are presented to the user displaying the golf courses that best fit the criteria selected through the user interface using the inputted parameters. The golf courses are ranked from best to worst. A link is then provided to take the user to the golf course displayed.

An example of the database populated is shown in . shows a database interface that allows the administrator to added edit database entries for a golf course.

It is noted that there are other avenues for achieving and searching for a golf course personality score. For example the mobile application of the program where the users interface is accessed on a mobile device such as an I Pad or smart phone. Users can perform the same type of search with this device as the first user interface and database designed for a personal computer station.

The interface and database can be reproduced on different size scales for other companies to use on their websites. The interface can be downloaded onto other entity s websites for them to offer the service to their customers. The interface can be downloaded on the personal computers to allow users to access it from their desktop screens at any time. The golf course personality concept could become a standardized format for describing golf course designs and layouts to the general public. This would allow golfers to quickly understand the design characteristics of every golf course that exists. For example a golf course has a personality of HB333 . A golfer can quickly understand the following from such score Heathland style course balanced layout with lots of sand and water can play long if we want it to and is a difficult course. This could save golfers a lot of time and or money that they might spend trying to acquire this information on their own.

The course personality score can allow suggestive selling of golf courses The golf course personality score can allow golf marketing companies to suggest certain golf courses to certain golfers based on the golf course design personality a golfer says they like to play. For example golfer A signs up on the companies email list and registers his or her preferred golf course personality as a PR1111 . The company can then send Golfer A specials and notifications from golf courses with this same golf course personality score of PR1111 .

Server including database and also optionally computer system may be considered the term system as used herein. Server is accessible by computer system via a network such as the Internet. One or more of the methods discussed herein may be embodied in or performed by software module and or server golf course fitting system module alone or in conjunction with a user. That is some of the features or functions of the presently described methods may be performed by software module on computer system and other features or functions of the presently described methods may be performed on server golf course fitting system module . In another embodiment all of the features or functions of the presently described methods may be performed by server or computer system .

Managing entity database may be operable on server or may be operable separate from server and may be communicable by users using their respective computer systems or clients. Managing entity database includes various data relating to the schools. Managing entity database includes a database entry for each golf course.

The Managing entity database also referred to as the golf course fitting system database is a database designed to house every golf courses tee to green personality score. The database was designed to be sorted by the input of the GCFS s user interface by matching tee to green personality scores. The GCFS was also designed with a golfer database that allows users to save their tee to green personality score in the system for future use. The GCFS was also designed with a group database for golf groups of two or more so that the system can match groups to golf courses based on a combination of all of their tee to green personality scores.

Network is the Internet. Each computer system may be similar to the exemplary computer system and associated components illustrated in .

Each software module and or server golf course fitting system module may be a self contained system with embedded logic decision making state based operations and other functions that may operate in conjunction with collaborative applications such as web browser applications email telephone applications and any other application that can be used to communicate with an intended recipient. Golfers may utilize the self contained systems as part of a process of analyzing and searching golf courses.

Software module may be stored on a file system or memory of the computer system . Software module may be accessed from file system and run on a processor associated with computer system .

Software module may also include a module to interface with the server hereinafter server interface module . The server interface module allows for interfacing with modules on server and communicates with server to upload and or download requested data and other information. As such computer may act as both a requesting device and an uploading device. Additionally the server interface module allows for transmission of data and requests between the computer and server . For example the server interface module allows for a query message to be transmitted to the server and also allows for receipt of the results. The server interface module distributes data received to the appropriate server module for further processing.

Any query may take the form of a command message that presents a command to the server which in turn compiles the command and executes the requested function such as retrieving information from database .

Software module may also include graphical user interfaces GUIs as previously presented. Software module may present one or more predetermined GUIs to permit the user to input select data into the system direct computer to perform certain functions define preferences associated with the query or allow the user to input any other information and or settings. The GUIs may be predetermined and or presented in response to the user attempting to perform operations such as those described previously in queries or enter information and or settings. Golf course fitting system module may generate the predetermined GUIs which may be presented to the user on a display of computer system . The GUIs also presents users notifications. The GUIs may allow the user to custom define a query as discussed herein. The GUIs can be custom defined and execute in conjunction with other modules and devices on the user s computer such as I O devices the module to interface with the server or any other module. Examples of the GUIs are discussed herein with regard to .

User computer system may also include a display and a speaker or speaker system. Display may present applications for electronic communications and or data extraction uploading downloading etc. and may perform controlling and display of the golf course data notifications search parameters etc. as described herein. Any GUIs associated with golf course fitting system module and application may also be presented on display . Speaker may present any voice or other auditory signals or information to user in addition to or in lieu of presenting such information on display .

User computer system may also include one or more input devices output devices or combination input and output device collectively I O devices . I O devices may include a keyboard computer pointing device or similar means to control operation of applications and interaction features described herein. I O devices may also include disk drives or devices for reading computer media including computer readable or computer operable instructions.

As noted above server golf course fitting system module may reside on server . It should be understood that server golf course fitting system module may also or alternatively reside on another computer or on a cloud computing device. One or more of the sub modules of the server golf course fitting system module may all run on one computer or run on separate computers.

Software module may also include a module to interface with the server hereinafter server interface module . Server interface module allows for interfacing with modules on server and communicates with server to upload and or download requested data and other information. As such computer may act as both a requesting device and an uploading device. Additionally server interface module allows for transmission of data and requests between the computer and server . For example server interface module allows for a query message to be transmitted to the server and also allows for receipt of the results. Server interface module distributes data received to the appropriate module for further processing.

Server golf course fitting system module includes graphical user interfaces GUIs . Server golf course fitting system module may present one or more predetermined GUIs to permit the user to input select data direct computer to perform certain functions define parameters associated with the query or allow the user to input any other information and or settings. GUIs may be predetermined and or presented in response to the user attempting to perform a query or enter information and or settings. Server golf course fitting system module generates the predetermined GUIs which may be presented to the user on a display of computer system . GUIs also present users notifications. GUIs allow the user to custom define a query such as changing a changing a query s search parameters. GUIs can be custom defined and execute in conjunction with other modules and devices on the user s computer such as I O devices the module to interface with the server or any other module. The GUIs are generated by server and allow the user to access the GUI using a web browser to enter data on the GUI through a software as a service SaaS or other application programming interface API . Thus when the user enters data on the GUI server golf course fitting system module stores the data in managing entity database . Examples of GUIs are illustrated with regard to .

Server golf course fitting system module also includes a module to query databases hereinafter query module . Query module allows a user to query data on server and thereby from managing entity database or from other databases . The query may take the form of a command message that presents a command to the server which in turn compiles the command and executes the requested function such as retrieving information from database or database . Query module communicates with server to upload a query and download requested items via server interface module . After transmission of a query message and retrieval of the query results query module may store the retrieved data in the memory for future retrieval.

External database s are connected to network so that server can retrieve information therefrom. External database s are databases managed by private golf associated entities who have given permission to the managing entity of server to access information on external database s . External database s are remote from the managing entity in the sense that the managing entity does not control the computer systems of the external entity and vice versa. Data that are contained on the external database s include golf course data difficulty rankings and other information data about golf courses that could replace and or complement the managing entity database. Server is therefore able to query the external database s for data regarding golf course data.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to embodiments of the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of embodiments of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of embodiments of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand embodiments of the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein those of ordinary skill in the art appreciate that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and that embodiments of the invention have other applications in other environments. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention. The following claims are in no way intended to limit the scope of embodiments of the invention to the specific embodiments described herein.

