---

title: Transaction management system
abstract: The systems and methods described herein relate to a system for documenting transactions. A filter is provided that captures content associated with transactions. The filter may be configured to start and stop the capture at predetermined times, and may be further configured to specify what content is to be captured during a transaction. The system may store any documents or data associated with a transaction, including dynamic content and user selections and inputs. A document repository may be provided for storing unstructured data representing data, text, forms, and so forth presented to a party during a transaction. A viewer may be provided for displaying data stored in the document repository.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275413&OS=09275413&RS=09275413
owner: Open Text S.A.
number: 09275413
owner_city: Luxembourg
owner_country: LU
publication_date: 20130903
---
This application is a continuation of and claims a benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 846 463 filed Jul. 29 2010 entitled TRANSACTION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM which is a continuation of and claims a benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 903 373 filed Sep. 21 2007 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 792 958 entitled TRANSACTION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM which is a continuation of and claims a benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 782 477 filed Feb. 13 2001 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 287 071 entitled TRANSACTION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM which in turn claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 235 973 filed Sep. 28 2000. The entire contents of applications listed in this paragraph are hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

The invention relates to transaction management systems. More particularly the invention relates to methods and systems for capturing and managing transactions and electronic documents related thereto conducted in a computer environment.

The emergence of networked computing and in particular increasingly accessible networks such as the Internet and the World Wide Web has made possible a wide variety of computerized transactions and electronic commerce. This may include one time consumer transactions such as a purchase of a product online as well as business to business transactions and complex consumer transactions such as mortgage lending insurance licensing and so forth. When conducted using computers transactions may involve data collection presentation of multimedia such as text graphics and sound dynamic data generation exchange of other data types such as facsimiles and so forth.

As a significant disadvantage transactions involving significant exchanges of information in various formats may not be well documented so that a party to a transaction may be unable to demonstrate a term or terms of the transaction that the party believed to be material.

There remains a need for a system that captures documents and electronic data associated with a transaction.

The systems and methods described herein relate to a system for documenting transactions. A filter is provided that captures content associated with transactions. The filter may be configured to start and stop the capture at predetermined times and may be further configured to specify what content is to be captured during a transaction. The system may store any documents or data associated with a transaction including dynamic content and user selections and inputs. A document repository may be provided for storing unstructured data representing data text forms and so forth presented to a party during a transaction. A viewer may be provided for displaying data stored in the document repository.

A transaction management system described herein may includes a server that hosts a transaction a network a client connected in a communicating relationship with the server over the network and the client participating in the transaction hosted by the server and a filter operating between the server and the client to capture data associated with the transaction.

The filter may operate on the server that hosts the transaction. The system may include a second server connected in a communicating relationship with the server that hosts the transaction and connected in a communicating relationship with the client wherein the filter operates on the second server. The system may include a document repository that stores data captured by the filter. The document repository may store unstructured data captured by the filter the unstructured data including data having a plurality of formats. The data may be indexed according to at least one of a transaction type a transaction party a transaction time or a transaction identifier. The system may include a viewer for viewing the unstructured data stored in the document repository.

The unstructured data may include a record of a transaction between the server and the client as displayed to a user at the client during the transaction. The unstructured data may include at least one of facsimile data print stream data application document data hypertext transfer protocol data graphics data and audio data. The filter may be configured to begin capture upon occurrence of one or more predetermined events. The filter may be configured to stop capture upon occurrence of one or more predetermined events. The system may include a configuration interface with which a user selects data to be captured during the transaction.

In one aspect there is disclosed herein a method for managing transactions conducted over a network that includes detecting a first event in response to the first event initiating a capture of data communicated between a client and a server detecting a second event in response to detection of the second event stopping the capture of data communicated between the client and the server and storing the captured data.

Storing the captured data may be performed after detecting the second event. The method may further include retrieving the captured data and displaying the captured data in the form that the data was displayed by the client when the data was captured. The captured data may include a hypertext transfer protocol session. The method may further include capturing a form from the server capturing data relating to the form from the client and storing the data relating to the form from the client in the form as one or more default values of the form. The method may further include in response to the first event initiating a capture of data communicated between the client and a third party provider of content. The content may include a banner advertisements or a price quotation. The first event may include navigation by the client to one or more predetermined addresses. The second event includes navigation by the client to one or more predetermined addresses. The method may further include configuring the first event and the second event to correspond to one or more predetermined universal resource locators. The method may further include configuring one or more attributes by which the data is indexed. The method may further include configuring the capture of data to include a portion of the data communicated between the client and the server the portion being less than all of the data communicated between the client and the server. The data communicated between the client and the server may include data relating to an electronic commerce transaction between the client and the server.

In another aspect there is described herein a system for managing transactions conducted over a network including first detecting means for detecting a first event capturing means for capturing data communicated between a client and a server in response to a detection of the first event by the first detecting means second detecting means for detecting a second event the capturing means stopping the capture of data in response to a detection by the second detecting means of the second event and storing means for storing the captured data.

In another aspect there is described herein a method of doing business that includes providing a filter for capturing an electronic commerce transaction between a server and a client the server hosting the electronic commerce transaction and the filter capturing the electronic commerce transaction in a form that permits review of the transaction as displayed to the client during the transaction the filter being configurable to control a first event that begins the capture of the transaction a second event that ends the capture of the transaction and one or more types of data to be included in the capture of the transaction.

The method may include storing the electronic commerce transaction in a document repository and providing a viewer for reviewing the transaction stored in the document repository. The filter may reside on a client system and the filter may operate as a proxy to the server that hosts the electronic commerce transaction. The filter may reside on a second server the second server operating as a proxy to the server that hosts the electronic commerce transaction and the client. Access to the document repository may be provided as a service to at least one of the client or the server. The method may include using the captured electronic commerce transaction to verify the transaction after the transaction has been completed.

The description below pertains to several illustrative embodiments of the invention. Although many variations of the invention may be envisioned by one skilled in the art such variations and improvements are intended to fall within the compass of this disclosure. Thus the scope of the invention is not to be limited in any way by the disclosure below.

In one embodiment the internetwork is the Internet and the World Wide Web provides a system for interconnecting clients and servers through the Internet . The internetwork may optionally include a cable network where at least one of the clients is a set top box cable ready game console or the like.

An exemplary client may include a processor a memory e.g. RAM a bus which couples the processor and the memory a mass storage device e.g. a magnetic hard disk or an optical storage disk coupled to the processor and the memory through an I O controller and a network interface coupled to the processor and the memory such as a modem a digital subscriber line DSL card a cable modem a network interface card a wireless network card or some other interface device capable of wired fiber optic or wireless data communications. One example of such a client is a personal computer equipped with an operating system such as Microsoft Windows 95 Microsoft Windows NT Unix Linux and Linux variants along with software support for Internet communication protocols. The personal computer may also include a browser program such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator to provide a user interface for access to the Internet . Although the personal computer is a typical client the client may also be a workstation mobile computer Web phone television set top box interactive kiosk personal digital assistant or other device capable of communicating over the Internet . As used herein the term client is intended to refer to any of the above described clients or other client devices and the term browser is intended to refer to any of the above browser programs or other software or firmware providing a user interface for navigating an internetwork such as the Internet.

An exemplary server includes a processor a memory e.g. RAM a bus which couples the processor and the memory a mass storage device e.g. a magnetic or optical disk coupled to the processor and the memory through an I O controller and a network interface coupled to the processor and the memory. Servers may be clustered together to handle more client traffic and may include separate servers for different functions such as a database server an application server and a Web presentation server. Such servers may further include one or more mass storage devices such as a disk farm or a redundant array of independent disk RAID system for additional storage and data integrity. Read only devices such as compact disk drives and digital versatile disk drives may also be connected to the servers. Suitable servers and mass storage devices are manufactured by for example Compaq IBM and Sun Microsystems. As used herein the term server is intended to refer to any of the above described servers or any other device that may be used to provide access functionality or content in a networked environment.

Focusing now on the internetwork one embodiment is the Internet. The structure of the Internet is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and includes a network backbone with networks branching from the backbone. These branches in turn have networks branching from them and so on. The backbone and branches are connected by routers bridges switches and other switching elements that operate to direct data through the internetwork . For a more detailed description of the structure and operation of the Internet one may refer to The Internet Complete Reference by Harley Hahn and Rick Stout published by McGraw Hill 1994.

However one may practice the invention on a wide variety of communication networks. For example the internetwork can include interactive television networks telecommunications networks wireless voice or data transmission systems two way cable systems customized computer networks interactive kiosk networks and automatic teller machine networks.

One embodiment of the internetwork includes Internet service providers offering dial in service such as Microsoft Network America On Line Prodigy and CompuServe. It will be appreciated that the Internet service providers may also include any computer system which can provide Internet access to a client . Of course the Internet service providers are optional and in some cases the clients may have direct access to the Internet through a dedicated DSL service ISDN leased lines TI lines digital satellite service cable modem service or any other high speed connection. Any of these high speed services may also be offered through one of the Internet service providers .

In its present deployment as the Internet the internetwork consists of a worldwide computer network that communicates using the well defined Transmission Control Protocol TCP and Internet Protocol IP to provide transport and network services. Computer systems that are directly connected to the Internet each have a unique IP address. The IP address consists of four one byte numbers although a planned expansion to sixteen bytes is underway with IPv6 . The four bytes of the IP address are commonly written out separated by periods such as 64.244.158.2 . To simplify Internet addressing the Domain Name System DNS was created. The DNS allows users to access Internet resources with an alphanumeric naming system. A DNS name consists of a series of alphanumeric names separated by periods. For example the name www.towertech.com corresponds to a particular IP address. When a domain name is used the computer accesses a DNS server to obtain the explicit four byte IP address.

It will be appreciated that other internetworks may be used with the invention. For example the internetwork may be a wide area network a local area network or corporate area network. The internetwork may be any other network used to communicate data such as a cable broadcast network.

To further define the resources on the Internet the Uniform Resource Locator system was created. A Uniform Resource Locator URL is a descriptor that specifically defines a type of Internet resource along with its location. URLs have the following format 

where resource type defines the type of Internet resource. Web documents are identified by the resource type http which indicates that the hypertext transfer protocol should be used to access the document. Other common resource types include ftp file transmission protocol mailto send electronic mail file local file and telnet. The domain address defines the domain name address of the computer that the resource is located on. Finally the path name defines a directory path within the file system of the server that identifies the resource. As used herein the term IP address is intended to refer to the four byte Internet Protocol address and the term Web address is intended to refer to a domain name address along with any resource identifier and path name appropriate to identify a particular Web resource. The term address when used alone may refer to either a Web address or an IP address.

In an exemplary embodiment a browser executing on one of the clients retrieves a Web document at an address from one of the servers via the internetwork and displays the Web document on a viewing device e.g. a screen. A user can retrieve and view the Web document by entering or selecting a link to a URL in the browser. The browser then sends an http request to the server that has the Web document associated with the URL. The server responds to the http request by sending the requested Web document to the client . The Web document is an HTTP object that includes plain text ASCII conforming to the HyperText Markup Language HTML . Other markup languages are known and may be used on appropriately enabled browsers and servers including the Dynamic HyperText Markup Language DHTML the Extensible Markup Language XML the Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHML and the Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML .

Each Web document usually contains hyperlinks to other Web documents. The browser displays the Web document on the screen for the user and the hyperlinks to other Web documents are emphasized in some fashion such that the user can identify and select each hyperlink. To enhance functionality a server may execute programs associated with Web documents using programming or scripting languages such as Perl C C or Java or a Common Gateway Interface CGI script to access applications on the server.

Other examples may include Microsoft s Application Server Pages ASP with a Component Object Model COM interface or Java Server Pages with a JavaBeans interface. A server may also use server side scripting languages such as Cold Fusion from Allaire Inc. or PHP. These programs and languages perform back end functions such as order processing database management and content searching. A Web document may also include references to small client side applications or applets that are transferred from the server to the client along with a Web document and executed locally by the client . Java is one popular example of a programming language used for applets. The text within a Web document may further include non displayed scripts that are executable by an appropriately enabled browser using a scripting language such as JavaScript or Visual Basic Script. Browsers may further be enhanced with a variety of helper applications to interpret various media including still image formats such as JPEG and GIF document formats such as PS and PDF motion picture formats such as AVI and MPEG and sound formats such as MP3 and MIDI. These media formats along with a growing variety of proprietary media formats may be used to enrich a user s interactive and audio visual experience as each Web document is presented through the browser. The term page as used herein is intended to refer to the Web document described above as well as any of the above described functional or multimedia content associated with the Web document.

The presentation server provides an interface for one or more connections to the internetwork thus permitting more than one of the clients to access the site at the same time. The presentation server may include a plurality of enterprise servers such as the ProLiant Cluster available from Compaq Computer Corp. or a cluster of E250 s from Sun Microsystems running Solaris 2.7. Other suitable servers are known in the art and are described in Jamsa Internet Programming Jamsa Press 1995 the teachings of which are herein incorporated by reference. The server maintains one or more connections to the Internet possibly provided by a tier one provider i.e. one of the dozen or so national international Internet backbones with cross national links of T3 speeds or higher such as MCI UUNet BBN Planet and Digex. Each server may be for example an iPlanet Enterprise Server 4.0 from the Sun Netscape Alliance. The presentation servers may use Web server software such as Apache or Microsoft s IIS.

The presentation server may also for example use the Microsoft Windows NT operating system with a front end written in Microsoft Active Server Page ASP or some other programming language or server software capable of integrating ActiveX controls forms Visual Basic Scripts JavaScript Macromedia Flash Technology multimedia e mail and other functional and multimedia aspects of a page. Typically the front end includes all text graphics and interactive objects within a page along with templates used for dynamic page creation.

A client accessing an address hosted by the presentation server may receive a page from the presentation server containing text forms scripts active objects hyperlinks etc. which may be collectively viewed using a browser. Each page may consist of static content i.e. an HTML text file and associated objects .avi .jpg .gif etc. stored on the presentation server and may include active content including applets scripts and objects such as check boxes drop down lists and the like. A page may be dynamically created in response to a particular client request including appropriate queries to the database server for particular types of data to be included in a responsive page. It will be appreciated that accessing a page is more complex in practice and includes for example a DNS request from the client to a DNS server receipt of an IP address by the client formation of a TCP connection with a port at the indicated IP address transmission of a GET command to the presentation server dynamic page generation if required transmission of an HTML object fetching additional objects referenced by the HTML object and so forth.

The application server may provide the back end functionality of the Web site and includes connections to the presentation server and the database server . In one embodiment the presentation server may comprise an enterprise server such as one available from Compaq Computer Corp. running the Microsoft Windows NT operating system or a cluster of E250 s from Sun MicroSystems running Solaris 2.7. Back end software may provide functionality for electronic commerce including order processing billing inventory management financial transactions shipping instructions and the like. The electronic commerce software running on the application server may include a software interface to the database server as well as a software interface to the front end provided by the presentation server . The application server may also use a Sun Netscape Alliance Server 4.0. A payment transaction server may also be included to process payments at a Web site using third party services such as Datacash or WorldPay or may process payments directly using payment server and banking software along with a communication link to a bank.

The database server may be an enterprise server such as one available. From Compaq Computer Corp. running for example a Microsoft Windows operating system such as Windows NT or Windows 2000. Or the database server may include a cluster of E250 s from Sun MicroSystems running Solaris 2.7 along with software components for database management. Suitable databases are provided by for example Oracle Sybase IBM s DB2 or UDB and SQL Server. The database server may also include one or more databases typically embodied in a mass storage device. The databases may include for example sale item pricing information mailing or emailing lists purchase orders customer information product information news items and the templates used by the presentation server to dynamically generate pages. In operation the database management software running on the database server may receive properly formatted requests from the presentation server or the application server . In response the database management software reads data from or writes data to the databases and generates responsive messages to the requesting server.

The database server may also include a File Transfer Protocol FTP server for providing downloadable files.

A Web site including the page may use cookies to track users and user information. In particular a client accessing the site may be accessed to detect whether the client has previously accessed the page or the site. If the client has accessed the site then some predetermined content may be presented to the client . If the client does not include a cookie indicating that the client has visited the site then the client may be directed to a registration page where information may be gathered to create a user profile. The client may also be presented with a login page so that a pre existing user on a new client may nonetheless bypass the registration page.

The site may provide options to the client . For example the site may provide a search tool by which the client may search for content within the site or content external to the site but accessible through the internetwork . The site may include news items topical to the site. Banner ads may be provided in the page and the ads may be personalized to a client if a profile exists for that client . The banner ads may also track redirection. That is when a client selects a banner ad the link and the banner ad may be captured and stored in a database. The site may provide a user profile update tool by which the client may make alterations to a user profile. A secure communication medium may be provided between clients and the server using for example VeriSign Digital Server ID and Secure Socket Layer SSL communication.

The client the network and the server may be for example those described above with reference to . The resources may be any resources for providing dynamic and static content to the client including commercially available tools such as Java Server Pages Active Server Pages and so forth as well as database resources file transfer resources Java Beans Component Object Model COM resources or other resources that may be used with the server .

The filters may reside between the server and the resources for example between a presentation layer and any application logic layers within an n tier server so that any content presented to the client may be captured. This may include static content or dynamic content and may include for example HTML XML media such as audio video animation and graphics as well as database query results however formatted and so forth. Where external content is included in a page such as targeted advertisements that are retrieved from a remote site and included in a page presented by the server the external content presented within a page may be captured and stored by the filters . The filters may additionally capture user input from the client . For example activation of controls such as checkboxes radio buttons scroll boxes drop down lists and the like within a page may be captured. Entries into text boxes and navigation through hyperlinks may be captured as well as any files uploaded or downloaded by the client . The filters may be created using any programming language such as C or C that may communicate with resources and the server and pass data and control information between the resources and the server .

The filters may include one or more triggers to control activation and deactivation of a transaction capture. For example the filters may be activated when a user navigates to a specific page or a specific address or activates a button within a page or performs some other action. Upon activation of a trigger the filters may capture data and store the data in a document repository . The filters may be configured using a configuration interface that provides user control over for example triggers to start a transaction capture triggers to stop a transaction capture and content captured during the transaction capture. The configuration interface may be an interface provided on a device hosting the server or may be an interface that accesses the server and the filters through a Local Area Network LAN Virtual Private Network VPN or other network. The configuration interface may access the server and the filters remotely such as through a dial in connection or through the network .

When the filters are triggered to start capturing user interaction data may be captured and transmitted to the document repository . The document repository may be used to store unstructured data including for example documents created by various applications multimedia including audio data and video data HTML streams HTML forms Electronic Document Integration EDI files and data electronic mail text scanned documents faxed documents screen captures images such as bitmaps .jpg files .png files and the like print streams in postscript or other formats customer statements maintained on remote systems and so forth. The data may also include XML forms scripts and the like.

Optical character recognition or other techniques may be included for textual interpretation of non text based formats. The filters may capture any authentication data including passwords digital signatures credit card numbers keys for secure communication and so forth. It will be appreciated that under certain privacy constraints or for other reasons some data that may be available for capture will explicitly not be captured by the system under control of the configuration interface . While a session with the server is one source of documents and data other document sources may provide data to the document repository including printers facsimile machines electronic mail servers applications databases financial transaction networks and so on.

The document repository may provide a hierarchical system of folders for client devices users and or specific transactions. Within each folder may be stored any data relating to a transaction or more generally any data captured by the filters or received from the document sources . It will be appreciated that while data may presented hierarchically for purposes of browsing the data may be stored sequentially and indexed according to one or more attributes for subsequent search and retrieval. Attributes may include for example transaction participants a transaction type a time a date a transaction identification number a file type a creation date time a file name a file size and so forth. The document repository may reside on a remote network device accessible to the filters and the document viewer through a communication interface such as a Web server. Data and documents in the data repository may be reviewed using data mining techniques to investigate for example terms which caused potential buyers not to make a purchase how long various pages of a multi page transaction were viewed exit points at which potential customers left a site and so on. In such applications the full content displayed to a client may be retrieved and reviewed for investigation. Enhanced accuracy of data may be realized because users of the system will be motivated to provide accurate information during the course of a transaction. Further paper based and electronic documents may be collectively mined for information. In addition structured search techniques may be applied to data of varying form including for example individual pages of faxes emails form data and so forth.

The document viewer may use for example one or more Application Programming Interfaces API s to interpret various types of media for display or searching. Each document item of data or other media captured during a transaction may be time stamped so that the document viewer may be used to view a complete transaction including the order in which all items were viewed and user inputs provided. Each document may be interpreted and searched in its native format so that for example facsimiles may be searched and viewed by individual page print streams may be searched for graphical or alphanumeric content and so forth. The document viewer may provide additional functionality such as editing documents in native formats zooming and panning within documents and annotating documents within the viewer. Annotations on a document or other data may be stored by the document viewer in the document repository without modifying the underlying document or data.

The document viewer may include tools for searching of documents and data stored in the document repository . This may include structured searching of meta file data such as file type creation date time file name size and so forth. Searching may also include text searching or other searching of data within documents. Hierarchical views may be provided for browsing and searching such as by transaction type transacting parties and so forth. The document viewer may be a thin client program with documents and data from the document repository converted to a common format by for example a server before presentation at the document viewer . The document viewer may optionally retrieve and interpret documents and data in its native format with one or more viewing technologies integrated into the viewer as for example Application Programming Interfaces APIs .

Transactions conducted between the client and the server may be captured by the filters . The filters may also be used to capture transactions between the client and the commerce site . The commerce site may be a site maintained by for example a bank a government agency an insurance company an electronic retailer an investment or brokerage company a real estate company or any other company or government entity that might usefully conduct business using the network . Several topologies for capturing transactions with remote sites are described in more detail below in reference to .

When triggers are configured the system may proceed to step where content is specified. This may include a specification of what should be captured during a particular session as described above with reference to . As noted above certain content may be explicitly excluded from capture such as any personal data or security data that is not required for the transaction. The specification of content may also include a specification of how a transaction is to be indexed when the transaction is stored. A specification of indexing may include for example any hierarchical or other criteria for organizing transactions such as parties to a transaction a transaction type or any other data or meta data that may be associated with a transaction or files belonging to a transaction.

When content has been specified the process may proceed to step where selections may be stored as filter configurations in a database . Information stored in the filter configuration database may be used during operation of filters as shown in by interconnections from the filter configuration database to steps and of the process . As shown in step it may be determined whether more configuration is to be performed. If further configuration is indicated the process may return to step where system configuration is initiated. If more configuration is not to be performed then the process may end as shown in step .

As shown in step filters may operate continuously on the server to detect occurrence of a start trigger. Where no start trigger is detected in step the process may return to step . Where a start trigger is detected the process may proceed to step where content is captured. This may be any of the data associated with a transaction including the data types described above in reference to . It should be appreciated that captured content may be transmitted to a document repository when it is captured or the content may be buffered until a stop trigger or abort trigger is detected at which time all of the captured content corresponding to a transaction may be transmitted to the document repository.

In step it is determined whether a stop trigger is detected. This may be any event such as navigation to a new address activation of a button or so forth. If no stop trigger is detected the process may proceed to step where abort triggers are tested. An abort trigger may be for example a timeout after a predetermined period of inactivity. If no abort trigger is detected then the process may return to step where additional content may be captured. If an abort trigger is detected then the process may reset and return to step where a new start trigger is awaited. It will be appreciated that abort triggers may be continuously tested through a separate execution thread or background process so that an abort may occur at any time in the process .

If a stop trigger is detected in step then the process may proceed to step where a session may be stored in a document repository which may be the document repository of . The process may then return to step where a new start trigger is awaited.

A number of variations of the process are possible. For example while the depicted process shows storage of a session after a stop trigger data and content associated with a transaction that is to be recorded may occur after transfer of each item of data i.e. between step and . Furthermore additional steps may be included such as retrieval capture of paper documents such as scanned or faxed documents. It will be appreciated that certain transactions may not be completed in a single session. Certain transactions such as real estate transactions may involve a period of negotiations as well as a collection and review of substantial paper based information. In such a transaction a transaction identifier may be included within the process so that a transaction may be completed over a number of different sessions.

In one method of doing business an independent third party may provide a server for capturing transactions. The server may be accessed by any party to a transaction such as a buyer or seller for a fee in order to capture a transaction. The server may upon request establish a connection with the seller and a connection with the buyer and transfer network traffic between the two parties while applying the filters to capture data related to the transaction. Should there be any dispute after the transaction is concluded reference may be made to the captured documents which may provide details of the exchange and the order in which data and documents were transferred during the transaction. This may include information of relevance to buyers and sellers alike including legally binding terms of an agreement price description of services and so forth. Data may also include volatile data such as stock prices interest rates and auction bids that may be relevant to a particular transaction.

Although not shown in the above topologies other applications of the filters described above may be used. For example in the system of the filters may reside outside the server such as between the server and the network . It will be appreciated that where secure communications are employed the filters may further include encryption and decryption processes as appropriate to maintain secure connections between components of the system. As another example the filters may reside on a load balancing router or other network switch that supports a plurality of servers conducting transactions. As a further example the filters described herein while generally depicted as separate processes accessible to a server may be included in a server process as a service or function of the server. Thus there is provided herein a server that includes configurable filters for capturing electronic commerce transactions conducted using the server.

It will be appreciated that systems such as those described above will have broad application in networked environments. The system may provide insurance in retail transactions such as on line purchases using a credit card. The system may also provide a platform for complex transactions such as home mortgages home purchases loans insurance policy issuance and underwriting and so on. However it should further be appreciated that the systems described herein and components of the systems may be usefully employed in non networked environments or in environments that combine networked and non networked aspects of a transaction. For example a group of papers relating to a transaction may be scanned faxed or otherwise converted to an electronic form and stored in the document repository for subsequent retrieval and examination. In addition a combination of paper documents and on line documents may be stored in the document repository so that a transaction that includes paper based and electronic records may be captured by the system.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with the preferred embodiments shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the invention is to be limited only by the following claims.

