---

title: Managing guaranteed bit rate quality of service resource allocation based on guaranteed bit rate data activity on a link
abstract: In an embodiment, an apparatus (e.g., a client device, an eNodeB, MME, S-GW, P-GW, UTRAN component, etc.) detects a first transition of a client device from an active state to an idle state while the client device is allocated a Quality of Service (QoS) link by a serving network. The apparatus caches QoS information associated with the QoS link, and releases the QoS link in response to the detection of the first transition. The apparatus later detects, after the caching and releasing, a second transition of the client device from the idle state back to the active state. The apparatus re-establishes the QoS link in response to the detection of the second transition using the cached QoS information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09655159&OS=09655159&RS=09655159
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09655159
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130828
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 695 707 entitled MANAGING GUARANTEED BIT RATE QUALITY OF SERVICE RESOURCE ALLOCATION BASED ON GUARANTEED BIT RATE BEARER DATA ACTIVITY filed Aug. 31 2012 by the same inventors as the subject application assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate to managing guaranteed bit rate GBR Quality of Service QoS resource allocation based on GBR data activity on a link.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

In an embodiment an apparatus e.g. a client device an eNodeB MME S GW P GW UTRAN component etc. detects a first transition of a client device from an active state to an idle state while the client device is allocated a Quality of Service QoS link by a serving network. The apparatus caches QoS information associated with the QoS link and releases the QoS link in response to the detection of the first transition. The apparatus later detects after the caching and releasing a second transition of the client device from the idle state back to the active state. The apparatus re establishes the QoS link in response to the detection of the second transition using the cached QoS information.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMEs D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffServ Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

Sessions that operate over networks such as 1 EV DO in UMTS based W CDMA in LTE in and eHRPD in can be supported on channels e.g. RABs flows etc. for which a guaranteed quality level is reserved which is referred to as Quality of Service QoS . For example establishing a given level of QoS on a particular channel may provide one or more of a minimum guaranteed bit rate GBR on that channel a maximum delay jitter latency bit error rate BER and so on. QoS resources can be reserved or setup for channels associated with real time or streaming communication sessions such as Voice over IP VoIP sessions group communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions etc. online games IP TV and so on to help ensure seamless end to end packet transfer for these sessions.

Conventionally when a QoS bearer is setup or activated to support a UE s participation a communication session associated with a particular service e.g. VoIP PTT etc. QoS is setup for the entire duration of the communication session. When the communication session is over the UE returns to an idle state and the QoS bearer is released.

For example in LTE the LTE core network maintains the S5 connection between the S GW D and P GW D for default EPS bearers i.e. EPS bearers that are not allocated GBR QoS corresponding to each PDN connection in an Always On state such that the non GBR QoS EPS bearer is maintained not released when the UE transitions from an RRC Connected state to an RRC Idle state. The reason for this is that maintaining default EPS Bearer in active state does not impact the capacity of the LTE core network. However for QoS bearers with GBR GBR QoS bearers or GBR EPS bearers if specifically in LTE LTE core networks typically release the S5 connections when an associated UE is determined to transition from the RRC Connected state to the RRC Idle state to conserve resources because maintaining the S5 connections for GBR EPS bearers consumes core network resources which limit the capacity of the LTE core network.

Certain delay sensitive communication sessions such as App calls e.g. delay sensitive PTT calls sensitive VoIP calls etc. require the GBR QoS bearer to be brought up quickly during call setup. However as noted above there is no GBR QoS bearer context maintained in RRC Idle state for LTE. As an example Voice Over LTE VoLTE is based upon this assumption. Thus the GBR QoS bearers for a delay sensitive communication session are typically setup on demand by the application server during setup of the session. One option for decreasing the call setup delays associated with GBR QoS bearer setup when a UE is transitioning from RRC Idle state to RRC Connected state is to maintain the S5 connection between the S GW D and P GW D for the GBR QoS bearer even when the UE is in RRC Idle state. As noted above this can significantly impact resource consumption by the LTE network.

Accordingly embodiments are directed to a procedure for more quickly establishing an S5 connection for GBR QoS bearers for particular application types during an RRC Idle to Connected transition without requiring the S5 connection to be maintained when an associated UE is in RRC Idle state. In the embodiments described below information associated with the GBR QoS bearers for certain application types e.g. applications associated with delay sensitive communication sessions such as App may be selectively cached to decrease the call setup times by more quickly bringing up the GBR QoS bearer during an RRC Idle to Connected transition. The embodiments described below are applicable to LTE networks W CDMA networks or both. One example of the type of application for which the selective caching procedure can be used is a media service that requires Always On GBR QoS bearer logical connections e.g. S5 connections in LTE as shown in Iu ps data connections in W CDMA as shown in etc. . Even though the S5 Connections are not truly Always On in this embodiment the selective caching procedure can decrease the setup times for the GBR QoS bearer to an extent that the call setup requirements of the delay sensitive application i.e. App are still satisfied i.e. normally these call setup requirements would only be satisfied via the relatively wasteful Always On status of the GBR QoS bearer . Thus the embodiments described below can in certain scenarios help to reduce the GBR QoS bearer setup delays during a call setup and can also help to reduce the period for which media traffic is sent on a non GBR bearer e.g. a best effort bearer during a call e.g. by setting up the GBR QoS bearer more quickly less time is spent exchanging traffic over a non GBR QoS bearer .

Below illustrates an Always On QoS setup procedure for a particular GBR EPS bearer and shows how the APN information or App identifying information can be exchanged during a QoS setup procedure for a particular GBR EPS bearer that is not Always On . The App identifying information exchanged as shown in can be used to implement selective caching of QoS information described below starting at which decreases the setup time for the GBR QoS bearer so that the S5 connections can be released instead of being kept Always On as in .

Referring to corresponds to an initial procedure whereby a given UE sets up a non QoS EPS bearer. The setup of the non QoS EPS bearer begins with the given UE in an RRC Idle state after which a System Information reading operation is performed the Non Access Stratum NAS layer at the given UE initiates EPS attach and PDN connectivity procedures the given UE and the LTE core network engage in an RRC connection and context set up procedure after which the given UE is transitioned into the RRC Connected state . At this point a default EPS bearer or non GBR QoS EPS bearer is established for the given UE and an Always On S5 connection is set up for the default EPS bearer . The default EPS bearer can be used to support applications that exchange data for which QoS e.g. GBR etc. is not required such as web browsing applications Email applications and so on.

The remainder of describes setup of a GBR EPS bearer for a high priority GBR application which is denoted as App . For LTE networks App can correspond to any application that requires GBR QoS on an associated EPS media bearer for supporting its communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions VoIP sessions etc. and that uses a dedicated Access Point Name APN where the dedicated APN is configured to specifically identify App to external devices such as components of the LTE core network . In non LTE networks App can be supported on other types of QoS bearers.

Accordingly after the given UE launches App sends a PDN Connectivity Request for App to the MME D and the MME D sends a Create Session Request to the P GW PCRF D D . At this point the LTE core network can initiate set up of the dedicated bearer for App s PDN connection or alternatively the application server or UE request the dedicated GBR EPS bearer setup . In either case the P GW PCRF D D sends a Create Session Response message to the MME D which sets up the GBR EPS bearer with a GBR that is specific to App e.g. a nominal data rate such as 1 kpbs or X kpbs . The MME D then delivers a Bearer Setup Request message to the eNodeB D to set up the App specific GBR and the eNodeB D allocates the GBR for App s GBR EPS bearer as requested . App s signaling bearer is setup and and App s GBR EPS media bearer is also setup and .

Turning to App in more detail App s media traffic model can be configured differently than the typical VoIP application traffic. For example App can be configured to bundle at least one e.g. 6 Vocoder frames into a single RTP packet and to transmit media packets every 120 ms. Thus the data rate and air interface configurations required for the App media bearer can be different than a VoIP media bearer which is referenced as QCI 1 in LTE networks. So it may not be suitable to use QCI 1 conversational voice for App .

The LTE standard can reserve a QCI in the range 128 255 for certain multimedia applications e.g. PTT applications and can allocate GBR QoS for this QCI. The S GW D and P GW D can identify App s GBR EPS bearer during initial bearer setup or bearer setup due to x2 or S1 based handover based on the reserved QCI for App App QCI for signaling and or media or alternatively based upon QCI 1 where the GBR EPS bearer is associated with an APN that is known to be related to App so the LTE core network knows to use App s specialized QoS parameters instead of the typical QCI 1 QoS parameters . As will be described in more detail with respect to later embodiments the recognition of the App specific GBR EPS bearer can be used to prompt the MME D to identify App s GBR EPS bearer and to selectively cache the GBR parameters for the GBR EPS bearer during handover e.g. the MME D may selectively cache GBR parameters associated with particular APNs etc. . The eNodeB D can identify App s GBR EPS bearer during initial bearer setup bearer setup due to x2 or S1 based handover based on the reserved App QCI to provide the requested QoS treatment. This procedure is shown in .

Referring to the given UE the eNodeB D and the MME D perform a service request procedure and the given UE delivers a PDN connectivity request for App to the MME D . Optionally an authentication procedure can be performed for the given UE with the PCRF D . The MME D delivers a Create Session Request to the S GW D for App and the S GW D delivers a Create Session Request to the P GW D for App . The P GW D and the PCRF D then engage in an IP CAN session during which the PCRF D detects the App APN and applies App QCIto the default bearer and initiates a dedicated bearer with App QCI .

Referring to the P GW D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCIand being associated with App s APN . The P GW D sends a Create Session Response Create Bearer Request to the S GW D that indicates App QCI . The S GW D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCIand being associated with App s APN . The S GW D sends a Create Session Response Create Bearer Request to the MME D that indicates App QCI and the MME D in turn sends a PDN Connectivity Accept Dedicated Bearer Set Request message to the eNodeB D that indicates App QCI . The MME D and the eNodeB D identifies the GBR EPS Bearer as an App EPS Bearer based on App QCI . The GBR EPS bearer for media is then setup with App QCI and the default EPS bearer for App s signaling is setup with App QCI as shown in the signaling between which will be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with QoS setup in LTE networks.

In particular App can use QCI 1 or alternatively an application specific QCI QCI for the GBR EPS media bearer on a dedicated App PDN connection App that requires the S5 connection to be quickly established i.e. delay sensitive when the UE transitions from RRC Idle state to RRC Connected state. As will be described below with respect to the quick setup of the GBR EPS media bearer can be achieved without maintaining the GBR EPS media bearer as Always On when during the UE is in RRC Idle state based on a selective caching of information associated with the GBR EPS media bearer.

Conventionally on transition to RRC Idle state the core network releases the GBR QoS bearers to conserve resources. Then upon receiving a Service Request from the UE via eNodeB D due to the transition from RRC Idle state to RRC Connected state the MME D only triggers the setup of the E RABs for the active EPS bearers i.e. Non GBR EPS bearers and the GBR EPS bearers for which the S5 connections are in active state . As the MME D conventionally releases the S5 connections for GBR EPS bearers the GBR bearers will not be setup in response to the Service Request message. Rather the GBR bearers will only be setup when an application on the UE or the application server requests for the GBR bearer explicitly for a call. This introduces delays in the GBR EPS media bearer setup and media may be transmitted on non GBR bearer till GBR bearer is setup resulting in degraded performance for App initial media talk spurts in a loaded network.

Referring to after determining that a particular GBR EPS media bearer is associated with App e.g. as in of the MME D detects that the given UE transitions from RRC Connected state to RRC Idle state based on receipt of a UE Context Release request A. In response to detection of the RRC Idle transition the MME B determines whether the App s GBR EPS media bearer is active for App s PDN connection App A. If not the MME D releases the E RABs but maintains the default non GBR EPS bearer S5 connections in an active state e.g. such as App s non GBR EPS signaling bearer A. Otherwise the MME D caches the QoS information of App s GBR EPS bearer corresponding to the App PDN connection and maintains this state information for the given UE even in RRC IDLE state A. For example the MME D can cache Bearer QCI QCI or QCI 1 APN of the App PDN connection App GBR UL DL X kbps MBR UL DL etc. . In A the MME D then initiates the release of App s GBR EPS media bearer which in turn causes the S GW D and P GW D to release the S5 connection for the GBR EPS media bearer. Thus after the QoS information caching of A the E RABs are released while the default non GBR EPS bearer S5 connections are maintained in an active state e.g. such as App s non GBR EPS signaling bearer .

Referring to after execution of the process of the MME D detects that the given UE transitions from RRC Idle state to back to RRC Connected state based on receipt of a Service Request message B. In response to detection of the RRC Connected transition the MME B determines whether QoS information associated with the App s GBR EPS media bearer is cached for the given UE s App s PDN connection App B. If not the MME D requests E RAB setup for the active non GBR EPS bearers for the Service Request B. Otherwise the MME D initiates activation of App s GBR EPS bearer S5 connection s and E RAB for QCI 1 or QCI based on the cached QoS information for App s PDN connection App B. Also in B the MME D requests E RAB setup for the active non GBR EPS bearers for the Service Request as in B.

Referring to the given UE is in RRC Idle state C and data activity is detected C that prompts the given UE to transition to RRC Connected state C and C. For example the data activity detected at C can correspond to receipt of a page message indicating downlink data is available for transmission to the given UE or alternatively can correspond to a determination to transmit uplink data from the given UE to the RAN . The data activity detected at C need not be related to App itself and can instead be related to any application associated with the given UE even an application that does not use GBR on any of its bearers . The given UE then transmits a Service Request message to the eNodeB D C which is forwarded to the MME D C. Receipt of the Service Request message by the MME D at C maps to B of in an example. Thus the MME D determines that QoS information for the App GBR EPS media bearer is cached C as in B after which the MME B sets up the E RABs for the Non GBR EPS bearers with active S5 connections C and C and the MME B also facilitates setup of the GBR EPS media bearer based on the cached QoS information with the signaling shown in between C and C.

While are directed to an implementation whereby the MME D i.e. a network side entity is responsible for caching the QoS information for App s GBR EPS media bearer in another embodiment the given UE itself can be responsible for maintaining the QoS information and then triggering the network to setup the GBR EPS media bearer using the QoS information as will be described below with respect to . With respect to assume that has already executed after which the given UE returns to RRC Idle state from RRC Connected state. Then a variation of is executed whereby the given UE and not necessarily the MME D although it is possible that is still performed by the MME D maintains the QoS information for App s GBR EPS media bearer.

With these assumptions referring to the given UE is in RRC Idle state . While the given UE is in RRC Idle state a client application for App monitors the RRC state of the given UE and eventually data activity is detected that prompts the given UE to transition to RRC Connected state and . For example the data activity detected at can correspond to receipt of a page message indicating downlink data is available for transmission to the given UE or alternatively can correspond to a determination to transmit uplink data from the given UE to the RAN . The data activity detected at need not be related to App itself and can instead be related to any application associated with the given UE even an application that does not use GBR on any of its bearers .

When the App client application detects the given UE s transition from RRC Idle state to RRC Connected state the App client application determines to setup the App GBR EPS media bearer. In this case the App GBR EPS media bearer is cached similar to B but at the UE instead of MME D and the UE does not need to actually cache the QoS information for the App GBR EPS media bearer in a separate storage location because the bearer state for the App GBR EPS media bearer can simply be maintained by the App client application during RRC Idle state . The given UE transmits a Service Request message to the eNodeB D which is forwarded to the MME D which prompts the MME B to setup the E RABs for the Non GBR EPS bearers with active S5 connections and . The App client application instructs lower layers of the given UE to transmit a Request Bearer Resource Modification message to bring up the App GBR EPS media bearer which causes the given UE to transmit the Request Bearer Resource Modification message including the QoS parameters e.g. QCI or QCI 1 for the App GBR EPS media bearer to the eNodeB D which forwards the Request Bearer Resource Modification message with the QoS parameters to the MME D . At this point the MME D is aware of the QoS parameter to be setup for App s GBR EPS media bearer. Thus in the MME D becomes aware of the QoS parameters via its own caching of the QoS information and in the MME D becomes aware of the cache QoS parameters via messaging from the given UE. Irrespective of whether the MME D is notified of the QoS parameters by its own caching or a UE based notification the MME D can facilitate setup of the GBR EPS media bearer based on the cached QoS information with the signaling shown in at which is the same as the signaling shown in between C and C respectively.

Conventionally on transition from an Idle state no TCH to a Connected state TCH active state in LTE or W CDMA networks the air interface resources for the App GBR QoS bearers are setup and reserved at the RAN for each active QoS bearer logical connection irrespective of whether or not there is traffic on the GBR QoS bearer. QoS is allocated reserved for the entire time the UE is in Connected state i.e. when the UE is in RRC Connected state in LTE or CELL DCH state in W CDMA . On smart phones UEs can move between Idle state and Connected state very often due to the constant sync with servers by associated with social networking email and other applications

Reserving App GBR QoS resources for the GBR bearers without any traffic transmitted on those bearers results is inefficient usage of the network resources. For example reserving App GBR QoS resources for the GBR bearers without any traffic transmitted on those bearers reduces the capacity of the system as the RAN reserves the data rate required for GBR bearers which are effectively inactive and performs admission control for the new GBR bearers based on the remaining data rate allowed in the system . Also reserving App GBR QoS resources for the GBR bearers without any traffic transmitted on those bearers can impact the Best Effort BE traffic performance i.e. the performance on a non GBR bearer . As will be appreciated these problems may be less applicable to EV DO networks as the air interface QoS resources are de allocated explicitly based on the de activation request from the application for the specific QoS flows or specific triggers at the RAN and not on Idle to Connected state transitions for the flows configured with ReservationKKIdleStateFwd ReservationKKIdleStateRev set to 0x01. Thus the processes described below with respect to focus upon LTE and W CDMA implementations that address one or more of the above noted problems.

Referring to a communications device e.g. the given UE itself or the P GW D detects that the given UE transitions from RRC Idle state to RRC Connected state A. In response to the RRC Idle to RRC Connected detection of A the communications device starts a data inactivity timer with a given expiration period when the App GBR EPS media bearer is activated A. The data inactivity timer can correspond to a single data inactivity timer that monitors both uplink UL and downlink DL traffic on the GBR EPS media bearer or alternatively the data inactivity timer can be implemented as two separate data inactivity timers that each monitor UL specific or DL specific traffic. For convenience of explanation is described below as if a single data inactivity timer is used although the dual timer approach could be implemented in an alternative embodiment with UL and DL QoS being independently controlled by their respective timers .

At A the communications device determines whether UL or DL traffic is detected on the App default non GBR EPS bearer e.g. the signaling bearer or the App GBR EPS media bearer A. In particular the communications device determines whether traffic associated with any bearer corresponding to App s APN is detected in the UL or DL direction at . If traffic is detected by the communications device on either App bearer at A the data inactivity timer is reset A. At A the communications device determines whether a threshold GBR e.g. X kpbs is already setup for the GBR EPS media bearer A. If not the communications device increases the GBR e.g. to X kpbs where X may be an application specific dynamic data rate for sessions associated with App A.

Referring to the communications device monitors the data inactivity timer to determine whether the data inactivity timer expires A. If expiration is detected at A the communications device determines whether a threshold GBR e.g. X kpbs is already setup for the GBR EPS media bearer A. If so the communications device decreases the GBR e.g. to 1 kpbs or some other nominal level for the GBR EPS media bearer A.

At this point the App non GBR EPS bearer e.g. the signaling bearer and the App GBR EPS bearer e.g. the media bearer are set up B with the eNodeB D allocating X kpbs GBR to the App GBR EPS media bearer B. At B the P GW PCRF D D starts the data inactivity timer and eventually determines the data inactivity timer to have expired due to inactivity as in A and A of . Accordingly GBR EPS media bearer is reduced from X to 1 kpbs or some other nominal GBR via the signaling shown between B and B.

At some later point in time assume that App UL data activity B and or App DL data activity B is detected for the App GBR EPS media bearer by the P GW PCRF D D. The detection of B and or B corresponds to A such that the P GW PCRF D D resets the data activity timer for the App GBR EPS media bearer as in A of after which the GBR EPS media bearer is increased from 1 kpbs to X via the signaling shown between B and B as in A of .

At this point the App non GBR EPS bearer e.g. the signaling bearer and the App GBR EPS bearer e.g. the media bearer are set up C with the eNodeB D allocating X kpbs GBR to the App GBR EPS media bearer C. At C the App client application on the given UE starts the data inactivity timer and eventually determines the data inactivity timer to have expired due to inactivity as in A and A of . Accordingly the App client application requests that the GBR EPS media bearer be reduced from X to 1 kpbs or some other nominal GBR via the signaling shown between C and C.

At some later point in time assume that the App client application on the given UE detects UL or DL App data activity C for the App GBR EPS media bearer C. The detection of C corresponds to A such that the App client application on the given UE resets the data activity timer for the App GBR EPS media bearer as in A of after which the App client application requests that the GBR EPS media bearer be increased from 1 kpbs to X via the signaling shown between C and C as in A of .

While are directed to processes of adjusting GBR QoS based on traffic inactivity for a given UE in RRC Connected state in an LTE network is directed to a process of adjusting GBR QoS based on traffic inactivity for a given UE in an active state e.g. CELL FACH or CELL DCH in a W CDMA network in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The process of can be performed by a RAN component such as the RNC B from .

Referring to the RAN detects that the given UE transitions from an idle state e.g. CELL PCH or URA PCH to an active state e.g. CELL FACH or CELL DCH . In response to the active state transition detection of the RAN starts a data inactivity timer with a given expiration period for a data RAB associated with App . In an example the App data RAB can be configured with the Interactive traffic class signaling indication Yes and ARP attributes or alternatively can be configured with the Conversational traffic class whereby the RAN reconfigures the QoS parameters of that class. The data inactivity timer can correspond to a single data inactivity timer that monitors both uplink UL and downlink DL traffic on the GBR EPS media bearer or alternatively the data inactivity timer can be implemented as two separate data inactivity timers that each monitor UL specific or DL specific traffic. For convenience of explanation is described below as if a single data inactivity timer is used although the dual timer approach could be implemented in an alternative embodiment with UL and DL QoS being independently controlled by their respective timers .

At the RAN determines whether UL or DL traffic is detected on the App data RAB. If traffic is detected by the RAN on the App data RAB at the data inactivity timer is reset . At the RAN determines whether a threshold GBR e.g. X kpbs is already setup for the App data RAB . For example at the RAN can check whether MAC es MAC hs GBR is set to X kpbs on the UL and or DL of the App data RAB. If not the RNC B requests the serving Node B s within the RAN to increase the GBR e.g. to X kpbs in the UL and or DL directions for . Also if the RAN determines that data traffic is detected on the App data RAB the serving Node B checks whether the App data RAB is configured with non scheduled transmission grant to support GBR on the UL . If so no further action is necessary for setting up the GBR at the serving Node B for the App data RAB . If not the serving Node B reconfigures the App data RAB for non scheduled transmission grant on the UL .

Referring to the RAN monitors the data inactivity timer to determine whether the data inactivity timer expires . If expiration is detected at the RAN determines whether a threshold GBR e.g. X kpbs is already setup for the App data RAB . For example at the RAN can check whether MAC es MAC hs GBR is set to X kpbs on the UL and or DL of the App data RAB. If so the RAN decreases the GBR e.g. to 1 kpbs or some other nominal level for the App data RAB . Also if the RAN determines expiration of the data inactivity timer the serving Node B checks whether the App data RAB is configured with non scheduled transmission grant to support GBR on the UL . If so the serving Node B reconfigures the App data RAB for scheduled transmission grant on the UL . If not no further action is necessary for releasing the GBR at the serving Node B for the App data RAB .

Referring to the RAN e.g. the serving eNodeB D detects that the given UE transitions from RRC Idle state to RRC Connected state . In response to the RRC Idle to RRC Connected detection of the RAN starts a separate data inactivity timer with a given expiration period for each App GBR EPS media bearer B . . . BN when the respective bearer is activated . Assuming all the bearers are activated and data inactivity timers did not expire the total resources required for GBR bearers may be calculated at based on Equation 1 Equation 1 where Rcorresponds to the total GBR resources reserved in the eNodeB D and Rcorresponds to the actual GBR resources X kbps required for the ibearer.

Referring to the RAN determines whether App data activity is detected on the default non GBR EPS bearer or the App GBR EPS bearer corresponding to App APN for a specific UE e.g. activity detected on bearer Bwhich was inactive previously or if a new bearer is established altogether . If either condition occurs the RAN starts or resets the data inactivity timer for the existing bearer with traffic activity or the new bearer . The RAN allocates GBR to the newly allocated or reserved GBR denoted as R and then updates Rby adding R as follows Equation 2

The RAN also continually monitors the data inactivity timers for each allocated App GBR bearer . If any of these data inactivity timers expire due to inactivity the RAN releases the GBR denoted as RGBR lower B  from the bearer s associated with the expired timer s and the RAN then updates RGBR total by subtracting RGBR lower B  as follows Equation 3 where Rcorresponds to a lower threshold of GBR resources e.g. 1 kbps required for the th bearer traffic used when the data inactivity timer expires.

While the embodiments above have been described primarily with reference to 1 EV DO architecture in CDMA2000 networks GPRS architecture in W CDMA or UMTS networks and or EPS architecture in LTE based networks it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to other types of network architectures and or protocols.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

