---

title: Media service delivery system providing conditional access to media content from various client devices
abstract: A system for protecting the digital rights of content owners allows digital media to be delivered to only those media rendering client devices that have been approved for the media content. Before delivering requested media, the media service provider may determine whether the media rendering client device that requested the media is the type of device that is authorized to receive the request media. If it is, the media service provider may transmit the media to a middleman server over a network (such as the Internet). A middleman server may then serve the media to the client device over a local network. By allowing the media content to be distributed to approved devices only, the media service provider can prevent a user from using the media in a way that is not authorized by the content owner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465945&OS=09465945&RS=09465945
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09465945
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131227
---
The present application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 412 375 entitled MEDIA SERVICE DELIVERY SYSTEM PROVIDING CONDITIONAL ACCESS TO MEDIA CONTENT FROM VARIOUS CLIENT DEVICES filed on Mar. 5 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 786 891 entitled MEDIA SERVICE DELIVERY SYSTEM PROVIDING CONDITIONAL ACCESS TO MEDIA CONTENT FROM VARIOUS CLIENT DEVICES filed on Feb. 24 2004 now issued at U.S. Pat. No. 8 131 865 granted on Mar. 6 2012 which is taking priority from of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 450 119 entitled MEDIA SERVICE DELIVERY SYSTEM PROVIDING CONDITIONAL ACCESS TO MEDIA CONTENT FROM VARIOUS CLIENT DEVICES filed on Feb. 24 2003 and claims priority there from.

This invention relates generally to delivery of media to one or more media rendering client devices and in particular to providing conditional access to media content received by media rendering client devices from a remote media service provider.

Digital is rapidly replacing analog as the preferred format for the storage transfer and processing of media data in many applications. In the home for example a growing number of devices are equipped to receive and render digital media. This enables the media content represented by the media data to be played on an output device stored on a medium or transmitted to another device. Some of the common media rendering devices used in the home include digital ready televisions and set top boxes DVD CD players and recorders stereo receivers and personal computers just to name a few.

The media content rendered in these media rendering devices can come from a variety of sources. Traditionally as with music CDs and video DVDs media content is purchased on a physical medium and then directly loaded onto these devices. But in addition to the traditional approach many consumers are discovering the advantages of joining an audio and or video subscription service. In a typical subscription service a consumer pays a small fee to receive media content from a remote media service provider for example using a personal computer connected to the Internet. The consumer may then render and play the received media data on the computer or on a device networked with the computer. Subscription services thus take further advantage of the abilities of digital media.

Subscription services are enhanced by the addition of a home network. Home networking systems such as that described in the Universal Plug and Play UPnP standard offer many advantages for connecting devices within a home networked environment. By incorporating a subscription service with a home network subscribers can receive media for any of the devices on their home network not just for their personal computers. This offers tremendous flexibility in the way that subscribers can use their media however the increased flexibility brings concerns about security and the digital rights of the media content owners.

A major concern that media content owners have about subscription services is how to protect their content from unauthorized use and copying. For example a subscriber may pay a fee to listen to a song once but that fee may not entitle the subscriber to make a copy of the song. But with the advances in home networking the media owners may not know whether their media is being delivered to a networked stereo system or to an attached CD burner. As such there is no way to ensure that the delivered media is not being used for an unauthorized purpose such as copying.

Although the importance of protecting media content is well understood the industry has not developed a system that can adequately protect media content for a media or multimedia provider service. For example some content protection schemes use encryption to secure the transmission of media data but these schemes do not enable the approval by a system server for conditional access and authentication of particular media rendering devices. Accordingly there is no safeguard in existing systems to prevent media data from being transmitted to unapproved devices and used in a way not authorized by the media owners so a large hole remains in existing protection schemes. The need still exists therefore for a system that allows for protection of content delivered by an audio or video subscription service or other media provider service.

A system for protecting the digital rights of content owners allows digital media to be delivered to media rendering client devices that have been approved for the media content. Before delivering requested media the media service provider determines whether the media rendering client device that requested the media is the type of device that is authorized to receive the request media. If it is the media service provider transmits the media to a middleman server over a network such as the Internet . The middleman server then serves the media to the client device over a local network. By allowing the media content to be distributed to approved devices e.g. to a stereo receiver but not to a CD burner the media service provider can prevent a user from using the media in a way that is not authorized by the content owner.

In one embodiment a media delivery system operates a system server that handles requests for media items from one or more users of the service. Each user has a number of media rendering devices and a middleman server on a local network where the middleman server may be remotely connected to the system server over a network such as the Internet. In this way the user can request a media item using a media rendering device and the middleman sever relays that request to the system server. The media rendering devices also communicate a device identification ID to the system server where the device ID identifies the media rendering device that made the request. Using the device ID the system server can verify whether the media rendering device that requested the media item is approved to receive the requested media item. For requests in which the media rendering device is approved to receive the requested media item the system server transmits the requested media item to the associated middleman server which in turn delivers the media item to the media rending device.

In another aspect of an embodiment of the invention the media service delivery system can be used to set limits on the content that media rendering client devices can receive based on the rating of the content. In this way a user can prevent content having a certain rating such as PA rated audio content or R rated video content from being delivered to particular client devices such as a child s stereo or television . In one embodiment the system server obtains a rating associated with a requested media item and accesses an approved rating range for the media rendering device that requested the media item. If the requested media item has a rating outside the approved rating range the system server denies the device s request. The system may also include a user interface that allows users to set and modify the approved rating ranges associated with each of their media rendering devices.

In another aspect of an embodiment of the invention the media service delivery system offers a number of different pricing schemes for delivering particular media content to particular client devices associated with a user. The various pricing schemes enabled by the system include the ability to set different prices based on which media rendering devices have access to protected media content and the ability to set prices based on the maximum number of simultaneous sessions by which media rendering devices can obtain content.

A media service delivery system enables the delivery of media content to one or more users while protecting the media from being used in an unauthorized way. For example a media service provider can use this system to implement a subscription service where a user pays for access to media content provided by the media service provider. The system protects the media content by allowing the service provider to limit the subscriber s access to the media. To illustrate how this may be done the service provider may designate certain media items to be freely downloaded and copied while other media items may be designated to be played only by the subscriber. Accordingly the system disallows delivery of the protected media items to client devices that are capable of copying the media or some other unauthorized use.

In one application of the media delivery system a media service provider maintains and controls the system server while a user or subscriber to the service owns and controls the middleman server the local network and the client devices . Although only one middleman server is in communication with the system server as shown in it can be appreciated that any number of middleman servers can be connected to the system server over the network . Therefore this media delivery system is readily scalable so that the service provider can accommodate any number of users that have access to the network . In a typical application there could be a large number of users that access the system server by way of their middleman server each user having the ability to receive media content from the media service provider.

The system server is in communication with a service management database which can also be controlled and maintained by the service provider. The database is used to manage the media delivery service for each of the users that are members of that service. In one embodiment the database contains a list of approved device IDs account information for each of the users and a pricing policy . As will be explained in greater detail the list of approved device IDs contains an identification of the media rendering client devices that are approved for the delivery of particular media content. The account information contains data for managing the account access preferences and status for each of the members of the service. The pricing policy identifies the prices of particular media content or a set of rules or policies for determining the pricing of media content offering a great amount of flexibility to the media service provider in providing pricing options to the user.

The system server also communicates with one or more media content databases from which the system server obtains the media items for delivery. The media content databases may be operated and maintained by the media service provider or they may be operated and maintained by the media content owners which are often not the same entity. In one embodiment the media items are associated with a rating if available. Ratings vary depending on the type of media content. For example music that may be objectionable contains a PA parental advisory rating and movies are rated according to a G PG PG 13 and R rating scheme.

Middleman server communicates with the media rendering client devices over a local network such as a Local Area Network LAN . The media rendering client devices may include any devices that are capable of receiving and processing digital media and they may be electronic devices or software modules running on a computer system. Rendering media content may include one or more of decoding playing displaying running executing processing and retransmitting of the media. As illustrated in example media rendering devices include a digital video recorder a receiver a net attached audio device a DVD player and a media player software module however this list is not meant to be exhaustive in any way. In one example the net attached audio device renders the digital media received and retransmits it as an analog media signal to another device.

The personal computer provides an interface for the user to access the media delivery service to manage the user s account. In one embodiment this interface includes a graphical user interface software modules and application programming interfaces APIs that allow a user to access and manage the user s account information remotely over the Internet. From the personal computer a user may log onto the system server as well as manage the user s account information pay for service fees and sign up for additional services. A user s account information may include a user name and password for logging into the system a digital wallet for keeping an account balance and payment options and any other information needed to manage the user s account with the media service as shown in .

The personal computer may be the same computer system as the middleman server or it may be any computer coupled to the network . In this way a user may access the user s account from anywhere on the network e.g. from any computer having a connection to the Internet. Alternatively the personal computer may be connected to the system on the local network and communicate with the system server through the middleman server . In another alternative embodiment a network enabled electronic device can be used in place of the personal computer to allow a user to access the account over the network .

To protect the security of the media content delivered to the user it is desirable to implement a secure transmission of the media content over the network and over the local network . Securing communications over the network protects media from being acquired by unauthorized persons and protects sensitive personal information communicated by a user to the service provider. This helps to protect the media content and the user s personal information from hackers. Securing transmissions over the local network helps to prevent one client device from intercepting content that is sent in the clear and meant for another client device. For example it may be desirable to prevent the digital video recorder from receiving video content delivered to the DVD player if that video content is not allowed to be copied.

There are a number of known techniques to implement secure transmissions over the network and local network . In one embodiment a security layer on the network and or the local network provides a secure channel of communication. It is understood that there are many ways to implement a secure communications channel. The security layer can be achieved using https SSL PPK encryption of packets transmitted over the network or any other suitable technique. In another embodiment of the invention the media data are encrypted before being sent from the system server to the middleman server and from the middleman server to a media rendering client device .

To obtain a media item using the device a user navigates the device s user interface to locate and request a media item on the local network . The device communicates with remote systems over the local network using the network interface which can send media requests and receive media data. The device routes received digital media to the media renderer which processes the digital data and produces an appropriate output which is in turn handled by the output interface . For example if the device were a digital enabled television the media renderer would decode the received video data and the output interface would use the decoded data to draw frames on the display screen. Alternatively if the if the device were a stereo receiver the media renderer would decode the audio data into an analog signal and the output interface would amplify the signal and provide an electrical interface for an attached speaker system.

As described above the media service delivery system authenticates the media rendering device using a device ID associated with the device . In one embodiment the device ID is stored in each device s memory . The device ID may uniquely identify a particular device uniquely identify the type of device e.g. the manufacturer and model or uniquely identify a class of devices that share a common trait. In a simplified system all approved devices may have the same device ID e.g. where the device ID is merely a piece of information that shows the device has been approved . Accordingly in various embodiments the device ID also illustrated in includes one or more of the following fields or data items 

Serial number which corresponds to a manufacturer s serial number and can be used to uniquely validate a manufacturer s product.

MAC address or a portion thereof which is unique for each manufactured product and can be thought of as a serial number for network enabled devices.

Digital signature which corresponds to a predetermined digital string that allows for a consistent identification of authorized devices.

It can be appreciated that any number of the above data items alone or in combination with other information can be used to identify the device depending on the desired scheme for providing conditional access to media for the different devices.

One benefit of using a digital signature is that it may be protected by a copyright or other intellectual property right. In this way the media service provider has a legal recourse to prevent unscrupulous device manufacturers from making devices that would spoof the system. For example a manufacturer of CD burners might try to include the device ID of an approved digital receiver by including a field in its memory that copies the approved device s MAC address or other unique information. However the unscrupulous manufacturer could be legally prevented form including a protected digital signature thereby preventing any spoofing of approved devices.

In one implementation of the system a media service provider works with various device manufacturers to approve the manufacturers media rendering client devices for use with the media service delivery system. As described above to protect the digital rights of the owners of the media content it may be desirable to prevent certain media content that is delivered by the system from being digitally copied. To prevent devices that can copy digital media from having access to the service the media service provider reviews various media rendering devices and determines whether the device should be approved. For example a stereo receiver that outputs analog signals for a speaker system might be approved whereas a stereo receiver that also has a digital output may not be. Alternatively a manufacturer may design a receiver that can output digital media when the source is a CD but not when the source is the media service provider. If the media service provider is satisfied that such a device cannot be easily hacked or altered to defeat this protection mechanism the service provider may approve the device. In this way the media service provider can use a pre approval process to obtain the desired level of security to prevent any type of device from having access to the provider s service.

In one embodiment a list of approved device IDs is stored in the service management database coupled to the system server . By communicating with the database the system server can verify whether a requesting device should have access to a particular media item given the device s device ID. illustrates one embodiment of the service management database . As described above each device ID may include one or more of OEM ID model number serial number MAC address and digital signature or any other identifying information.

The media service delivery system may also allow for different levels of security or access rules to be applied to different sets of media content. For example a subscriber may have paid for the full rights to copy a first category of audio content such as an album and also paid for a subscription service that provides the right to listen to but not copy the audio content. In one embodiment this feature is implemented by maintaining a separate list of approved device IDs for each category of media content. Accordingly in the example the first category would have a first list of approved devices which would generally include CD burners and other devices that allow for digital reproduction of the content. A second list of approved devices would be maintained for the other content which would not include such devices. Then when determining whether a device is allowed to access a particular media item the delivery system uses the appropriate list of approved devices depending on the media content that has been requested.

The trace diagram of illustrates one embodiment of a process by which a media rendering client device can be used to obtain a media selection from the system server by way of the middleman server in accordance with an embodiment of the media service delivery system. As explained above the media rendering client device communicates with the middleman server over the local network . This can be home network for example a home network as described in the Universal Plug and Play UPnP standard. To begin a communication session the client device and middleman server undergo a handshaking process .

Once a communications session is established and before making a media request the client device may request a directory listing of available media content and the middleman server passes this request to the system server . To reduce network traffic the client device may store previous directory listings and merely request an update for the listing. In response to the request the system server provides a directory listing of the available media content which the middleman server passes to the client device . In this way the client device can obtain a listing of available media content from the media service provider displayed for example on the device s user interface .

In one embodiment the system server provides a listing of only the media content that is available to that device . To do so the system server could cross reference the device with the list of approved devices to determine which content can be received by the device however it may not be necessary to perform a full verification process described below for a listing since the security concerns for the directory listing are not as great as those for the content itself. In addition the directory listing preferably includes only the type of media content for which the device is designed e.g. provide a directory of audio content only for an audio device . In one embodiment the directory listing is a CDS content directory service for UPnP.

Using the client device the user may then request a media item such as one from the directory listing. When the media rendering client device requests media the middleman server relays the request to the system server . In addition the client device sends its device ID to the system server by way of the middleman server . The client device may send the device ID along with the media request or it may do so in response to a query from the middleman server or system server .

Having received the media request from a client device and the device ID associated with that device the system server verifies that the device is allowed to receive the media item that it requested. To perform this verification the system server compares the device ID against the list of approved device IDs in the database . If the device has not been approved for the requested content the system server denies the request. If the device has been approved however the system server proceeds with granting the request. To grant the request for example the system server requests the media item from the media content database which sends the media item to the system server .

Preferably the system server and middleman server establish a secure communications channel as described above. Securing communications between the system server and the middleman server protects the media content from being intercepted by unauthorized persons and also protects potentially sensitive information about the user s account. The secure communications channel may be established at the beginning of the session between the system server and the middleman server . The system server then sends the requested media item to the middleman server .

Similarly the middleman server and the media client rendering device establish a secure communications channel. As noted above this step can be performed earlier in this process. Securing communications between the middleman server and the client device protects the media item from being intercepted by other client devices on the network that have not been approved for the content. The middleman server then sends the requested media item to the client device which can render the media item so that it can be played or further processed for the user s experience.

In another embodiment the media service delivery system can be configured to deliver media content to a user s media rendering client devices conditionally based on the ratings associated with the media content. Referring to each user s account information includes a device map . The device map has a listing of each of the client devices that the user has attached to the user s local network . This listing may be detected automatically by inquiries from the system server or the user may register these devices manually with the system server using the personal computer as an interface to configure the device map . Associated with each device in the device map is an approved content field which describes the ranges of ratings that each device can access. As ratings for various types of media content can vary so can the approved content field.

Accordingly with the device map the user can specify which content is accessible to each device by appropriately designating a range in the approved content field. For example if the user wishes to provide full access to all content in the service to DVR the user simply sets the approved content authorization associated with the DVR to All. This enables the DVR to access all the content in the database to the extent the content is available to that device. Similarly the user can set the approved content authorization for receiver to a restricted access level. This might be desirable for example if the receiver is a boom box located in a child s room and the user wants to deny access to PA rated music. It should also be appreciated that this would be useful if the user wanted to limit access for the DVD player to movies that contain ratings of PG or below. Additionally devices like the media player software module may be able to access multiple types of content such as audio and video content. In such cases the approved content field may contain approved rating ranges for each type of media content.

In one embodiment the system server implements the feature of conditional delivery based on media content rating during the authorization step of . In addition to verifying the device ID in the list of approved device IDs as described above the system server also verifies whether the device requesting a media item is authorized to view content having that item s rating . To verify this the system server locates the entry in the device map and retrieves its associated approved content range. The system server only grants the request if the rating for the media item is within the approved content range.

As illustrates the media content database includes the ratings associated with the media items therein. Therefore the system server can obtain a media item s rating from the content database . Each media item in the content database is rated according to the appropriate method for that type of content. For instance music that may be objectionable contains a PA parental advisory flag and movies are rated according to a G PG PG 13 and R rating scheme. Alternatively rather than obtain the rating from the media content database the system server may associate the rating with a media item in some other way for example by reference to an external database.

The media service delivery system described herein allow a great variety in pricing schemes for the media service provider. In one example the media service could be priced at a basic subscription fee per month for access from a personal computer only. If the user would like the ability to access the media service from other devices such as a digital video recorder the user can include that device in his account for an additional fee. Additional devices could also be added to the user s account for additional fees. In an alternative pricing scheme a basic rate may allow for a single media session to be opened by a client rendering device at a given time and the user can pay additional fees to allow additional simultaneous sessions. With this system therefore pricing can be set by any kind of pricing policy which is accessible by system server

As used herein media items and media data may include information used to represent a media or multimedia content such as all or part of an audio and or video file a data stream having media content or a transmission of media content. Media content may include one or a combination of audio including music radio broadcasts recordings advertisements etc. video including movies video clips television broadcasts advertisements etc. software including video games multimedia programs graphics software and pictures however this listing is not exhaustive. Furthermore media data media items and media content include anything that itself comprises media content in whole or in part. Media data media items and media content can be encoded using any encoding technology such as MPEG in the case of video and MP3 in the case of audio. They may also be encrypted to protect their content using an encryption algorithm such as DES triple DES or any other suitable encryption technique.

In addition any of the steps operations or processes described herein can be performed or implemented with one or more software modules alone or in combination with other devices such as hardware devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing the steps operations or processes described.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

