---

title: Method and system of automated compliance management
abstract: A method and system of automated compliance management is disclosed. The method includes receiving an application call from a remote information handling system (IHS) running an application, the application including a function configured to invoke the application call. The method also includes determining a location of operation of the remote IHS and determining a compliance criterion of the application based on the location of operation of the remote IHS. The method further includes sending a response to the application call from the remote IHS, the response including information for configuring the application to comply with the compliance criterion. Associated apparatuses and systems are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09577883&OS=09577883&RS=09577883
owner: Dell Products L.P.
number: 09577883
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130426
---
The present disclosure relates generally to information handling systems and more particularly to a method and system of automated compliance management.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

Information handling systems may be used in a variety of locations and industries throughout the world. Each location and or industry may be required to comply with its own set of regulations or standards. Because different locations throughout the world use different regulations and standards the costs associated with compliance with those varied regulations and standards may be high.

In one embodiment a method is disclosed includes receiving an application call from a remote information handling system IHS running an application the application including a function configured to invoke the application call. The method also includes determining a location of operation of the remote IHS and determining a compliance criterion of the application based on the location of operation of the remote IHS. The method further includes sending a response to the application call from the remote IHS the response including information for configuring the application to comply with the compliance criterion.

In another embodiment a computer readable medium containing instructions to be executed by a processor is disclosed. The instructions when executed are configured to receive an application call from a remote information handling system IHS running an application the application including a function configured to invoke the application call. The instructions are further configured to determine a location of operation of the remote IHS and determine a compliance criterion of the application based on the location of operation of the remote IHS. The instructions are also configured to send a response to the application call from the remote IHS the response including information for configuring the application to comply with the compliance criterion.

In a further embodiment a system comprising a processor and a computer readable medium containing instructions to be executed by the processor is disclosed. The instructions when executed are configured to receive an application call from a remote information handling system IHS running an application the application including a function configured to invoke the application call. The instructions are further configured to determine a location of operation of the remote IHS and determine a compliance criterion of the application based on the location of operation of the remote IHS. The instructions are also configured to send a response to the application call from the remote IHS the response including information for configuring the application to comply with the compliance criterion.

For the purposes of this disclosure an information handling system IHS may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute calculate determine classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display communicate manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop tablet computer mobile device e.g. personal digital assistant PDA or smart phone server e.g. blade server or rack server a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components or the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse touchscreen and or a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communication between the various hardware components.

For the purposes of this disclosure computer readable media may include any instrumentality or aggregation of instrumentalities that may retain data and or instructions for a period of time. Computer readable media may include without limitation storage media such as a direct access storage device e.g. a hard disk drive or floppy disk a sequential access storage device e.g. a tape disk drive compact disk CD ROM DVD random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory as well as communications media such as wires optical fibers microwaves radio waves and other electromagnetic and or optical carriers and or any combination of the foregoing.

For the purposes of this disclosure a regulation may include any set of rules requirements or standards that may be applicable to an application an IHS running an application or interaction of an application with some other component like another application or another IHS or even a user of the IHS. A regulation may be set by an international national or regional entity including governmental entities. Regulations may also be characterized as best practices or recommendations. Regulations may be based on the type of entity operating the IHS. For example governmental agencies may be required to comply with specific regulations. Regulations may also be based on an industry or subject matter. For example regulations may be imposed on the health care banking digital forensics video surveillance mobile clinic computing or other industries. Additionally regulations may be updated and changed at the discretion of the regulation setting agency. As one example an IHS running software to collect patient data in the United States may be required to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA including any modifications or updates to that law created by Congress. For the purposes of this disclosure a compliance criterion may include one or more regulations requirements of regulations or combinations thereof.

While various modules may be shown in the present disclosure it should be appreciated that these designations may be logical designations to facilitate an understanding of the principles of the present disclosure. For example more than one module may be grouped or implemented in a single module or what may be illustrated as a single module may be implemented as multiple modules. A module may include for example an application logic instructions program script library shared library function add in or other suitable entity. Further each module may be implemented as software hardware or combinations thereof.

An IHS may include a processor coupled to a memory. A processor may comprise for example a microprocessor microcontroller digital signal processor DSP application specific integrated circuit ASIC or any other digital or analog circuitry configured to interpret and or execute program instructions and or process data. In some embodiments a processor may interpret and or execute program instructions and or process data stored in a memory. A memory may be configured in part or whole as application memory system memory or both. A memory may include any system device or apparatus configured to hold and or house one or more memory modules. Each memory module may include any system device or apparatus configured to retain program instructions and or data for a period of time e.g. computer readable storage media . Instructions logic or data for configuring the operation of an IHS such as configurations of components including modules may reside in a memory for execution by a processor.

In one embodiment each of IHSs A E may be in communication with an automated compliance system over a network. The term network may be interpreted as generically defining any network capable of transmitting telecommunication signals data and or messages. A network may include any suitable collection and arrangement of communications equipment supporting the transport and delivery of data. For example a network may include one or a collection of components associated with a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a back haul network an intranet a global computer network such as the Internet or any other communications equipment suitable for providing wireless and or wireline communications. In some embodiments a network may be an Internet Protocol IP network.

Automated compliance system may be configured to facilitate compliance with the different regulations associated with the subject matter and or location of IHSs A E. For example automated compliance system may provide regulatory requirements software code APIs or some other response to facilitate IHSs A E s compliance with the applicable regulations.

Data collection module may be configured to acquire and store information regarding regulations including updating regulations. Software developer module may be configured to generate applicable regulations or software code to be used by a software developer to develop software that is compliant with applicable regulations. Auditor assistance module may be configured to generate and or provide information to an auditor analyzing compliance with regulations. Remote application interaction module may be configured to interact with a remote IHS to provide regulatory requirements software code APIs or a response to facilitate compliance with applicable regulations. Compliance information module may be configured to store and recall information regarding regulations requirements of regulations and other information associated with regulations.

Data collection module may be configured to receive retrieve or collect data associated with a plurality of regulations. Data collection module may further be configured to identify and store information about each regulation. For example and in no way limiting data collection module may identify and store geographical locations where compliance with a given regulation may be required industries or subject matters that may require compliance with the given regulation where the source of official information for the given regulation is located how changes or updates to the given regulation are published or otherwise distributed different levels of compliance within the given regulation and mandatory requirements for compliance with the given regulation or a particular compliance level within the regulation. Data collection module may facilitate the storage of this information about each regulation in compliance information module . For example data collection module may pass information associated with a regulation to compliance information module with instructions indicating where and how the information should be stored and or treated within compliance information module . In some embodiments data collection module may pass the information to compliance information module and compliance information module may determine how to store and or treat the information.

Data collection module may also map any overlap between requirements of different regulations stored in compliance information module . For example if two regulations for different industries in the some location required 2048 bit Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA keys to be used these requirements may overlap. Data collection module may further indicate requirement prioritization for a given regulation or requirement. For example requirement prioritization information may be used to resolve conflicts that may emerge between multiple requirements or regulations by complying with the highest priority requirement or regulation.

As shown in a first table may include a name of a regulation for example HIPAA Payment Card Industry PCI International Organization of Standards ISO the version of the regulation and the official source of information for the standard. A second table may include the subject matter of a regulation. For example the healthcare industry may have entries for both HIPAA and ISO 27001. The banking industry may have entries for the Sarbanes Oxley Act SOX as well as ISO 27001. The credit card industry may have entries for PCI. A third table may include locations in which compliance with a given regulation is required. For example using Loc1 Loc5 as different locations Loc1 Loc2 and Loc3 may require compliance with HIPAA. Loc1 and Loc4 may require compliance with PCI. Loc1 Loc2 Loc3 and Loc5 may require compliance with ISO 27001. A fourth table may indicate the overlap between requirements from given regulations. For example a first requirement of HIPAA may be given an ID of 1 and may overlap with a third requirement of ISO 27001. A second requirement of HIPAA may be given an ID of 2 and may overlap with a first requirement of ISO 27001. A third requirement of HIPAA may be given an ID of 3 and may not overlap with any requirements. A first requirement of PCI may be given an ID of 4 and may overlap with a second requirement of ISO 27001. A second requirement of PCI may be given an ID of 5 and may not overlap with any requirements. A third requirement of PCI may be given an ID of 6 and may overlap with a twenty fourth requirement of ISO 27001. A twenty fifth requirement of ISO 27001 may be given an ID of 7 and may not overlap with any requirements.

While a variety of tables and entries in the tables are illustrated in it will be appreciated that these tables are merely examples of how information may be organized in compliance information module and are in no way limiting. Data collection module as illustrated in may be configured to update the information contained in compliance information module . For example when a new version of a regulation is released data collection module may parse the official source of information regarding that regulation to determine if any changes to the requirements have been made. Any changes may be stored in compliance information module and the version information may be updated for the given regulation. In some embodiments data collection module may periodically search for updates via an automated process for example at given time intervals like every month or every quarter. For example data collection module may analyze the version number of a given regulation at the server containing the official source of truth for that regulation and may determine if the version of the regulation stored on the source of truth server is the same as that stored in compliance information module . In some embodiments a user may direct data collection module to search for updates to the regulations.

Product profile module may be configured to create a profile of a software product to ascertain what regulations may be applicable to a given product. The profile may be generated as a series of questions is posed to software developer regarding the product they intend to develop. These questions may be automatically generated by product profile module or may be manually entered by an operator of automated compliance system . The questions may be presented in a series of user interface screens. For example the questions may be used to determine the locations in which the product may be used the industry or subject matter the product will be applicable to or used in types of communications that will be sent to or from the product what level of Governance Risk and Compliance GRC is desired for the product or other related questions. For example a software developer may be developing software for an organization that implements its own GRC levels to control compliance with its own internal benchmarks in addition to various regulations. The software developer may be asked questions about the particular GRC levels and compliance requirements for those GRC levels.

The questions used by product profile module may be administered in an automated fashion for example by a series of user interface screens or other sequential process. The answers to these questions may be used to generate a profile of the product indicating the regulations and requirements of those regulations that are to be complied with. This profile may then be passed to development information generation module . The profile may be maintained in long term storage for example in a hard drive or flash drive. Alternatively the profile may be used only temporarily by development information generation module and then discarded.

Development information generation module may be configured to generate information useful to a software developer based on the profile created by product profile module . Such information may include for example software code a list of requirements and or regulations or functions to use within their software code. Alternatively rather than using the profile created by product profile module development information generation module may receive direct user input indicating what regulations and or specific requirements are desired to be complied with. Development information generation module may produce a variety of developmental information. For example in some embodiments a simple list of regulations and or requirements associated with those regulations may be generated. This may allow a software developer to have a complete list of regulations and or a list of requirements required for compliance before developing a software product. In this way a software developer may have guidelines when developing the product.

In some embodiments an example set of computer instructions such as software code compliant with the generated list of requirements may be generated by development information generation module to be provided to a software developer. Such instructions may make up one or more functions. In some embodiments one or more such functions may make up or may be configured to call an application programming interface API . Such an API may be provided to allow the developer to use the same function calls for various programs or program instances. A call to the API in an instance of a user application may thus be used for multiple operating environments. The results of making the API call may depend upon where or from what the call is made. For example the results of the API call may vary for a given location or industry. Accordingly execution of the application may be compliant in such variable operating environments even when the same program is executed in such variable environments.

The term call may refer to a command from within an application that references a step or series of steps to be taken. This may be done by calling a function routine a sub routine or some other series of steps. A call may reference steps contained within the same program or some other program or library. Further the other program or library may be stored remotely from where the application is being executed. This may be referred to as a remote application call. A call may be invoked by a module application logic instructions program script library shared library function add in or other suitable entity.

In some embodiments the example set of instructions may be provided to a software developer as an end product. Thus compliance as of a certain date may be guaranteed but compliance in the future may not be guaranteed. In such an embodiment the software developer may have to remain up to date on modifications or changes to the regulations applicable to their product and revise their product accordingly for continued compliance.

With reference to auditor assistance module may also be implemented as part of automated compliance system . Auditor assistance module may be configured to generate a report or other information beneficial to an auditor in determining whether a product is compliant with applicable regulations. An auditor may be any individual entity or body interested in determining the compliance of a product with a regulation. For example an auditor may be a person or department within a company developing software or an auditor may be an outside firm hired to analyze the compliance of a product with a regulation. Automated compliance system may provide an auditor a report of requirements that is not tied to any specific product or may generate a report regarding compliance for a given product.

When generating a report in the abstract an auditor may be guided through a similar set of questions to that used by product profile module shown in . For example an auditor may indicate the location industry GRC level other regulations to be complied with or any combination thereof that the auditor is interested in. In response auditor assistance module may ascertain the regulations and corresponding requirements as indicated in compliance information module . Auditor assistance module may then provide a list of regulations and corresponding requirements in order to be compliant with those regulations.

When generating a report about a specific product an auditor may be guided through a set of questions to allow the auditor to indicate the location industry GRC level other regulations to be complied with or any combination thereof for the product. The appropriate regulations and or requirements may be ascertained by referencing information stored in compliance information module . Auditor assistance module may then change the stored information into a regulation specific format. For example if a given regulation uses certain terminology that terminology may be used in the report or if a specific format of compliant documentation is required the report may take that form of documentation. Additionally portions of code and or APIs corresponding to compliance with a given requirement may be included in the report. This report may then be provided to the auditor. The report may be provided in an electronic format via email or some other delivery method for example as ASCII text an HTML file an XML file a word processing document a PDF file or other machine readable file. In some embodiments the report may be provided as a physical rendition for example a printed copy of the report. This may allow an auditor automated access to the requirements of a given regulation and the implementation of code and or APIs that meet the requirements of the given regulation.

In some embodiments compliance with regulations may be further managed by automated compliance system . With reference to remote application interaction module may also be implemented as part of automated compliance system . Remote application interaction module may be configured to receive a remote application call from a function within an application running on remote IHS and provide a response to remote application call that is compliant with the requirements of the applicable regulations. For example a set of functions may be provided to a software developer to be used when developing a new product. These functions may be configured to invoke remote application call that communicates with remote application interaction module . These functions may be utilized in any portion of software code which may be implicated in compliance with a given regulation. The software developer may be provided language specific functions or may be provided generic functions that may be applicable for multiple languages. In one embodiment rather than merely providing an API that the function refers to the function may refer to the automated compliance system itself via remote application interaction module . By the software developer using the provided functions when remote application call is received remote application interaction module may determine what location what industry or subject matter or what level of GRC is appropriate for application . Remote application interaction module may then use that information to ascertain the applicable regulations and requirements stored in compliance information module that are pertinent to application as. Remote application interaction module may then provide a response to remote application call that is compliant with the applicable regulations. The response may include appropriate software code routines or functions configured to be compliant when executed. Alternatively the response may include results from application call such as a list of requirements. IHS running the developed application may determine from such a list of requirements which option from a variety of options may be used to be compliant.

A software developer may only develop a single application using the functions provided and the developed software will be compliant with regulations regardless of location or industry. For example if a software developer wanted to write a software program for collecting and storing medical data to be used in multiple locations a single program could be written including functions invoking the remote application calls that would be directed to remote application interaction module . The results of the remote application calls may be used for compliant implementation of the operations that are appropriate for the location in which the application is being used. By using the provided functions a software developer s concern for compliance may be simplified by the appropriate remote application calls within the developed application. One or more compliance issues including addressing modifications and updates to the regulations may be addressed at automated compliance system .

As an example and in no way limiting illustrates an example operation of application interacting with remote application interaction module . As shown in IHS is operating at a location Loc1 and operation in an industry Ind2. When application is run on IHS a function may invoke remote application call . This may include a function that may use encryption information regarding RSA keys. Remote application call may interact with remote application interaction module of automated compliance system . When remote application call is received remote application interaction module may determine the location and industry in which IHS is operating. As shown in IHS may supply that information to remote application interaction module when remote application call is invoked. Alternatively rather than making this determination based on supplied information remote application interaction module may determine the location and industry of IHS by other means described herein. For example interaction module may determine the location and or industry by utilizing a lookup table or analyzing the communication path between IHS and automated compliance system . This information may be stored in compliance information module .

Compliance information module may contain information stored in table showing the requirements of regulations for each of three locations and three industries. Loc1 and Ind1 may require 1024 bit encryption Loc2 and Ind2 may require 2048 bit encryption and Loc3 and Ind3 may allow utilization of clear text. Based on the determination of the location and industry in which IHS is operating remote application interaction module may communicate with compliance information module to request the appropriate level of encryption to use for an RSA key to be compliant. Compliance information module may provide remote application interaction module with the appropriate information. Remote application interaction module may then provide a response to remote application call .

The response provided may include only the information that a 2048 bit RSA key is to be generated. In such an embodiment IHS may then use an API stored locally to implement the received information and generate a 2048 bit RSA key. In alternative embodiments remote application interaction module may retrieve actual software code configuration rule for example and in no way limiting password complexity protocol configuration or data at rest encryption level or an actual API from compliance information module that may be sent to IHS for use in application . In either embodiment the information or the software programming provided contain the compliance requirements as stored and updated in compliance information module .

At operation the regulatory requirements of the application may be determined. Determining the regulatory requirements may be done based on the location of operation of the remote IHS the industry or subject matter of the application a GRC level manually designated by a software developer or any combinations thereof. To ascertain the regulatory requirements of the application the remote application interaction module may look up the requirements of applicable regulations as stored within a compliance information module of the automated compliance system.

At operation a response may be provided to the remote application call by the remote application interaction module such that the operation of the application on the remote IHS is in compliance with the applicable regulations. For example if it is determined that the application is operating in a location and industry that requires a 2048 bit RSA key rather than a 1024 bit RSA key and the application call is to generate an appropriate key the response may include a key being generated with the compliant 2048 bit RSA key.

At operation a report may be generated indicating compliance with the ascertained regulatory requirements. For example if a location and industry require a 2048 bit RSA key a report may include information indicating that such is implemented to meet the specific rule and regulations and further may include the code implementing the generation of the compliant RSA key.

While the operations shown in are shown in a linear fashion it will be appreciated that they may be done in various orders and some operations may be omitted. For example if a report is all that is being provided only operations and or may be performed. As another example step may be omitted completely.

Although the present disclosure has been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made hereto without departing from the spirit and the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

