---

title: Device and method for generating message item display data
abstract: A device is described. The device comprises a processor configured to communicate with a display and detect a user selection indicative of a message items view. The processor, in response to the detected user selection, is further configured to obtain message data items via a message application executable on the device; arrange the message data items in a two-dimensional scheme; generate display data of the two-dimensional scheme of message data items for display; and output the generated data to the display. A method for a device is also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326019&OS=09326019&RS=09326019
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09326019
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130222
---
It is often time consuming to access and review multiple items e.g. message items from a list view. For example when a person typically accesses and views their email messages the messages are provided in a one dimensional list. Each message then has to be individually opened by using an input device so that it can be reviewed. This can be time consuming and involve many discrete server requests just messages can be reviewed.

In a first aspect there is provided a device comprising a processor configured to communicate with a display and detect a user selection indicative of a message items view the processor in response to the detected selection is further configured to obtain message data items via a message application executable on the device arrange the message data items in a two dimensional scheme generate display data of the two dimensional scheme of message data items for display and output the generated data to the display.

In one embodiment the device may comprise an input device configured to detect the user selection and wherein the processor is configured to generate the display data based on the user selection.

In one embodiment each message data item may comprise one or more of subject sender recipient attachment message body header or importance.

In one embodiment the processor may be configured to arrange each message data item in the two dimensional scheme to include one or more of subject sender recipient attachment message body header or importance.

In one embodiment each message data item may comprise a message body and the generated display data for each message data item comprises at least a portion of the message body.

In one embodiment the processor may be configured to receive user entered data indicative of a user input command related to a message data item.

In one embodiment the user entered data may be indicative of a user selection of a message data item to be removed from the two dimensional scheme wherein the processor may be configured to remove the user selected message data item from the two dimensional scheme.

In one embodiment the processor may be configured to generate display data pertaining to a reduced display of the selected message data item for a predetermined period of time before the selected message data item is removed from the two dimensional scheme.

In one embodiment the user entered data may indicative of a user selection of a message data item to view options associated with the selected message data item wherein the processor may be configured to update the display data of the user selected message data item of the two dimensional scheme to include user selectable options associated with the selected message data item.

In one embodiment the user selectable options may comprise one or more of dismiss reply read forward save delete or update importance.

In one embodiment the user entered data may be indicative of a user selection of a message data item to view the full message body of the message data item wherein the processor may be configured to update the display data of the user selected message data item of the two dimensional scheme to include the full message body of the selected message data item.

In one embodiment the processor may be configured to update the message data items of the message application in response to user selections associated with the message data items.

In one embodiment the message data items may be arranged along a first axis according to a first criterion of the message data items and a second axis according to a second criterion of the message data items.

In one embodiment the message data items may be arranged in the two dimensional scheme in accordance with one or more criteria comprising urgency sender recipient message date or calendar event.

In a second aspect there is provided a method for a device comprising the steps of detecting a user selection indicative of a message items view and in response to the detected user selection perform the steps of obtaining message data items via a message application executable on the device arranging the message data items in a two dimensional scheme generating display data of the two dimensional scheme of message data items for display and outputting the generated data to a display.

In one embodiment the method may comprise detecting the user selection and generating the display data based on the user selection.

In one embodiment each message data item may comprise one or more of subject sender recipient attachment message body header or importance.

In one embodiment the method may comprise arranging each message data item in the two dimensional scheme to include one or more of subject sender recipient attachment message body header or importance.

In one embodiment each message data item may comprise a message body and the generated display data for each message data item comprises at least a portion of the message body.

In one embodiment the method may comprise receiving user entered data indicative of a user input command related to a message data item.

In one embodiment the user entered data may be indicative of a user selection of a message data item to be removed from the two dimensional scheme and wherein the method may comprise the step of removing the user selected message data item from the two dimensional scheme.

In one embodiment the method may comprise generating display data pertaining to a reduced display of the selected message data item for a predetermined period of time before the selected message data item is removed from the two dimensional scheme.

In one embodiment the user entered data is indicative of a user selection of a message data item to view options associated with the selected message data item and wherein the method may comprise the step of updating the display data of the user selected message data item of the two dimensional scheme to include user selectable options associated with the selected message data item.

In one embodiment the user selectable options may comprise one or more of dismiss reply read forward save delete or update importance.

In one embodiment the user entered data may be indicative of a user selection of a message data item to view the full message body of the message data item and wherein the method may comprise the step of updating the display data of the user selected message data item of the two dimensional scheme to include the full message body of the selected message data item.

In one embodiment the method may comprise the step of updating the message data items of the message application in response to user selections associated with the message data items.

In one embodiment the message data items may be arranged along a first axis according to a first criterion of the message data items and a second axis according to a second criterion of the message data items.

In one embodiment the message data items may be arranged in the two dimensional scheme in accordance with one or more criteria comprising urgency sender recipient message date or calendar event.

In a third aspect there is provided a computer readable medium comprising executable instructions which when executed cause a processor to perform the above methods. The executable instructions may be computer executable instructions. A device may be configured to receive the executable instructions from the computer readable medium and or comprise the executable instructions and be configured to execute the executable instructions.

In a fourth aspect there is provided a device configured to perform one or more of the above methods. The device may further comprise a processor configured to perform one or more of the above methods. The processor may comprise one or more discrete electronic components.

Reference is made to which illustrates an exemplary electronic device which is usable in accordance with the disclosure below. An electronic device such as the electronic device of is configured to generate a user controllable interface on a built in display or on a remote external display device or on a built in display and on a remote external display device. In the context of this disclosure the term remote means a display screen which is not built in to the electronic device with which the electronic device communicates via a physical wired connection or via a wireless connection.

It will be appreciated that in other embodiments some of the features systems or subsystems of the electronic device discussed below with reference to may be omitted from electronic devices which are intended to perform solely operations in relation to the generation and output of display data and the modification of media content output.

In the illustrated exemplary embodiment the electronic device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. It will be appreciated that the electronic device may take other forms including any one of the forms listed below. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in certain exemplary embodiments the electronic device is a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system such as a notebook laptop or desktop system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device. In the context of this disclosure the term mobile means the device is of a size or weight which makes it readily portable by a single individual e.g. of a weight less than 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 or 0.1 kilograms or of a volume less than 15 000 10 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 500 400 300 200 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 or 5 cubic centimeters. As such the device may be portable in a bag or clothing pocket.

The electronic device includes a controller including a processor such as a microprocessor which controls the operation of the electronic device . In certain electronic devices more than one processor is provided with each processor in communication with each other and configured to perform operations in parallel so that they together control the overall operation of the electronic device. The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as one or more of a display a speaker electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as one or more of a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port an external video output port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem a clock subsystem a battery interface and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one exemplary embodiment is the flash memory . In various exemplary embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents presentation documents and information word processor documents and information spread sheet documents and information desktop publishing documents and information database files and information image files video files audio files internet web pages and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may also include program application data such as functions controls and interfaces from an application such as an email application an address book application a calendar application a notepad application a presentation application a word processor application a spread sheet application a desktop publishing application a database application a media application such as a picture viewer a video player or an audio player and a web browser. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The electronic device includes a clock subsystem or module comprising a system clock configured to measure system time. In one example the system clock comprises its own alternate power source. The system clock provides an indicator of a current time value the system time represented as a year month day hour minute second milliseconds value. In other examples the clock subsystem additionally or alternatively provides an indicator of the current time value represented as a count of the number of ticks of known duration since a particular epoch.

The clock subsystem the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem the short range wireless communications subsystem and the battery interface together form a status report subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of the operating status of the device.

The display receives display data generated by the processor such that the display displays certain application data stored as a segment of the data from the memory any of the flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM in a predetermined way on display screen not shown of the display according to the processing performed by the processor .

In certain exemplary embodiments the external video output port is integrated with the data port . The external video output port is configured to connect the electronic device via a wired connection e.g. video graphics array VGA digital visual interface DVI or high definition multimedia interface HDMI to an external or remote display device which is separate and remote from the electronic device and its display . The processor outputs external display data generated by the processor via the external video output port such that the external display device can display application data from the memory module in a predetermined way on an external display screen not shown of the external display device . The processor may also communicate the external display data to the external display device in a similar fashion over a wireless communications path.

At any given time the display data and the external display data generated by the processor may be identical or similar for a predetermined period of time but may also differ for a predetermined period of time with the processor controlling whether the display data and the external display data are identical or differ based on input from one or more of the input interfaces . In this context the word identical means that both sets of data comprise similar content so as to generate an identical or substantially similar display at substantially the same time on both the external display device and the display . In this context the word differ means that the external display data and display data are not identical this is to say that these data may but not necessarily include identical elements of data for example representative of the same application data but the external display data and display data are not wholly identical. Hence the display on both the external display device and the display are not wholly identical although similar or identical individual items of content based on the application data may be displayed on both the external display device and the display .

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes a touchscreen which acts as both an input interface e.g. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The processor is in communication with the memory and the touch sensitive input interface to detect user input via the input interface . The processor then generates or updates display data comprising a display object for display by the display device in accordance with the user input. The processor then outputs the display data for display on the display device . In an example the user input comprises a swipe gesture across the touchscreen interface .

In at least some exemplary embodiments the touch sensitive overlay has a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some exemplary embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame not shown which surrounds the display . In such exemplary embodiments the frame not shown may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some exemplary embodiments the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of the electronic device .

As noted above in some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes a communication subsystem which allows the electronic device to communicate over a wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP which is in communication with the processor . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the electronic device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which electronic device is intended to operate.

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device communicates with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital ND conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog DIA conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some exemplary embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some exemplary embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some exemplary embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some exemplary embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth. Additionally or alternatively the orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the device relative to known locations or fixtures in a communication network.

In some exemplary embodiments the orientation subsystem includes other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various exemplary embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some exemplary embodiments the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

The electronic device in at least some exemplary embodiments includes a Near Field Communication NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other electronic devices or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna. In such an embodiment the orientation sensor may generate data which specifies a distance between the electronic device and an NFC transceiver.

The electronic device includes a microphone or one or more speakers. In at least some exemplary embodiments an electronic device includes a plurality of speakers . For example in some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within the electronic device . In at least some exemplary embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such exemplary embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display.

In at least some exemplary embodiments each speaker is associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

The electronic device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video.

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of the electronic device or the housing of the electronic device . In such exemplary embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display or the housing. In at least some exemplary embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some exemplary embodiments the electronic device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some exemplary embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that electronic device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera the electronic device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of the electronic device . That is in at least some exemplary embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on the electronic device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images detected by the camera.

In some exemplary embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some exemplary embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some exemplary embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some exemplary embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices . In at least some exemplary embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Any one or more of the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem and the short range wireless communications subsystem serves as a communication subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of an incoming message being received by the electronic device . The incoming message may be an email a message received via a social networking website an SMS short message service message or a telephone call for example.

The electronic device is in some exemplary embodiments a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device can compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as a media player module . In the exemplary embodiment of the media player module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other exemplary embodiments the presentation module could be implemented as part of the operating system or other applications .

As discussed above electronic devices which are configured to perform operations in relation to a communications log may take a variety of forms. In at least some exemplary embodiments one or more of the electronic devices which are configured to perform operations in relation to the presentation module are a smart phone or a tablet computer.

Referring now to a front view of an exemplary electronic device which in one example may be a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone includes all of the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the exemplary embodiment the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the exemplary embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other exemplary embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some exemplary embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which in one example may be a tablet computer is illustrated. The tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

The tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of the tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

A frame surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some exemplary embodiments the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows the electronic device to detect a touch applied to the frame thus allowing the frame to act as an input interface .

The exemplary tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display .

The exemplary tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other exemplary embodiments.

The exemplary tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

The tablet computer may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the tablet computer.

The electronic device which may be tablet computer is usable by an end user to send and receive communications using electronic communication services supported by a service provider.

The end user of an electronic device may send and receive communications with different entities using different electronic communication services. Those services may or may not be accessible using one or more particular electronic devices. For example a communication source of an end user s text messages sent and received by an end user using a particular electronic device having a particular memory module such as a USIM may be accessible using that device but those text messages may not be accessible using another device having a different memory module. Other electronic communication sources such as a web based email account may be accessible via a website using a browser on any internet enabled electronic device.

Servers and are also connected to the communications network and one or more of them may individually or together support electronic communications services available to end users of electronic devices and enabling them to send and receive electronic communications. Servers and may be web servers or communications servers such as email servers.

Other servers and services may of course be provided allowing users of electronic devices and to send and receive electronic communications by for example Voice over IP phone calls video IP calls video chat group video chat blogs file transfers instant messaging and feeds.

Wireless network may also support electronic communications without using communications network . For example a user of smart phone may use wireless network to make telephony calls video calls send text messages send multimedia messages and send instant messages to smart phone and to display application data on a display screen of the external display device or control the display of application data.

The example shown in is intended to be non limiting and additional network infrastructure may of course be provided such as a Public Switched Telephone Network not shown which may be used for example to make telephony calls using smartphone to a wired phone not shown .

The display includes a message viewer or smart view display that allows a viewer to more easily review message items and act on the message items for example email messages.

The display includes one or more selectable display objects executable on the processor of the device that may be representative of an application or part of an application stored in the memory flash memory or installed on the device . In this case responsive to detection of a user input selecting one of the selectable display objects the processor opens or runs the application i.e. begins execution of the instructions associated with the application . The selectable display objects are illustrated on the left hand side of the display and include a selectable display object that allows a user to view multiple message items in a single view based on a single user selection or click to more quickly and easily determine what action needs to be taken with regard to the message items. In this exemplary embodiment when a user selects the display object labelled Today s View in the figure the processor generates a display pertaining to a message item review window display or smart view .

When a user selection to review message items is detected by the processor of the device via the input device for example the processor obtains message data items from a message application associated with the device . For example in this exemplary embodiment the message items are obtained from an email application executable on the device . Furthermore the message review may from part of a message application such that the message reviewer application is within the message application executable on the device .

Each message data item obtained from the message application relates to a previously unopened or unread message item in this exemplary embodiment. That is to say that the message item may never have been opened or may have been opened but marked unread. Each message data item includes data relating to one or more of a message subject a message sender or recipient an attachment a message body a message header or data relating to importance urgency or privacy.

The processor of the device arranges the obtained message items in a two dimensional scheme or array of message items as illustrated in the display view . For example the message data items are arranged in three columns in this example as illustrated in the figure. The message items are arranged in columns according to one or more criteria of the message items. For example the message items may be arranged in different columns or along a first axis based on urgency sender recipient message date or calendar event of the message data item. Alternatively there may be no specific arrangement of the messages rather the message items may be arranged to best utilise the display area available.

The message items are also arranged within the columns or along a second axis according to one or more different criteria of the message items. For example the message items may be arranged within the columns based on urgency sender recipient message date or calendar event of the message item. In this example the messages are arranged within each column based on date of receipt with the newest or most recent at the top

The processor of the display device generates display data that is output to the display of the device . The display data contains data for each of the obtained message data items arranged in the two dimensional scheme or array . The display data for each message data item includes one or more of the email subject the sender recipient any attachments a message body a message header and the importance or urgency of the message data item. For example display data of message item includes a message subject sender details date and time of the message the body of the message i.e. the message and the attached image. It will be appreciated that it may not be possible to display the entire body of the message item for all message items based on the area of the display. Accordingly each message data item may be given or allowed a predetermined or threshold area of the display such that if the message would otherwise extend to an area greater than the predetermined area only a portion of the message body is displayed. In an exemplary embodiment at least a portion of the message body of the message data item is displayed for each message data item.

The generated display data is outputted to the display of the device to produce the display illustrated in . As illustrated in the display each message item which corresponds to an unopened message item is displayed with details related to the message e.g. sender date time and subject in addition to at least a portion of the message body and any attachments which in this example are displayed in a smaller e.g. thumbnail format.

Based on the display illustrated in a user is able to visualise an overview of all the unopened messages from their message inbox or folders of unopened message items obtained from a message application. It will be appreciated that although preferably all the messages will be displayed on a single viewable display it may be necessary to provide a scroll bar not illustrated so that a viewer may scroll down the page. This is because if the message items are reduced so that all message items are displayed on a single viewable display i.e. without the need for scrolling the information or data provided for each message item may not be sufficient for a user to easily review the content of the message item and make a decision regarding what if any action is required.

The user is able to look over the display of message items and select a message that he or she has read. In this example a user via the input device of the device selects a message item once it is read. For example the user input device is a touch screen that allows the user to touch the display of the device at the location of the message item to make a selection as is known in the art. A selection of a message item may be made anywhere within the area of a chosen message item. Alternatively each message item may be provided with a check or tick box to make a selection or other form of tab or specific selection point location within the message item.

Once a message item is selected it is considered to be read and the processor upon receipt of the message item selection from the input device will update or generate a display to reflect that the message has been read and selected as read. In this example three message items are selected as read and is used to describe how the display is updated after the selection is made.

The processor while generating the display of message items to reflect that one or more messages have been read or selected also updates the message data item within the message application to reflect that the message has been read or opened. For example a message data item that has been selected as read in the display view is updated accordingly and the message data item is marked as read or opened within the message application. Thus if a user goes to a more typical list view of message items the selected message item will appear in the list view be present and will be displayed as read or opened even though it would no longer be displayed in the overview display

The user may also perform other actions related to each message. The user is provided with a number of display objects which relate to actions that may be performed on the message including reply delete reply all forward view full message body view attachment in a larger view save attachment save message mark as urgent mark as private or update urgency. A further selected action may include marking the message as read or unread. These actions may be presented to a user as selectable display icons within the display of the message item. For example message item is provided with a number of selectable display objects in a header portion of the message item. These selectable display objects may be generated by the processor and displayed in response to a user input detected using the input device . For example a user may move a displayed cursor to the displayed header portion of the message item or may use a touchscreen input device to select the message at the position of the message header. This selection is preferably different to marking the message as read. Once a message item is selected a number of selectable display icons are generated by the processor of the device and displayed on the display . When a user selects one of the display objects an appropriate action is performed by the processor. For example if a user moves a cursor to the header portion of the displayed message item the selectable display objects are displayed and a user may select reply . The processor will open a new message composition window or display in response to the replay selection and allow the user to replay to the message item.

Once the user has finished reviewing the messages in the review display the user may select a different display object from those provided on the left hand side of the display illustrated in to return to a more typical list of message items for example. As discussed above the list of message items will have been updated by the processor within the message application to reflect the changes and selections made within the smart view display .

Thus a user is able to make a single selection of a display object within a messaging environment and be provided with an overview or smart view of all unopened messages for a more accessible view to allow a user to more easily review and sort act upon message items. It will be appreciate that in exemplary embodiments message items are displayed in the smart view but a different group of message items may also be displayed for example all messages from the same sender or all messages received on a specific day.

At block the processor detects a user selection via the input device for example. For example a message application may contain a list of messages e.g. emails. The user selection may be based on a user selecting a selectable display object that when executed provides a smart view or alternative message view of the list of message items.

At block and in response to the user selection the processor obtains data on messages via a message application. As discussed the selectable display object may form part of a message application such that the processor will obtain message items from a user s inbox. The obtained message items will be in this example unread or unopened messages. Each message item will include all the data related to the message including message sender message body message subject date time the message was received and any attachments.

At block the processor arranges the message items in a two dimensional scheme. In this example the processor arranges display objects each relating to a message item in a scheme or array. The message items may include selectable display objects and are arranged in columns of message items. The message items are displayed to include a least a part of message body. The message items are displayed may further include a representation of the attachment for example in the form of a thumbnail image.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of device and methods e.g. first and second devices the devices may include components for performing at least some of the example aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon may direct the apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It should be understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

It will be appreciated that the present invention has been described above by way of example only and other embodiments exist which fall within the scope of the appendant claims.

