---

title: Data relay for a controller
abstract: A two conductor hard wired communications link accepts an actual value of at least one parameter of interest from an environmental sensor in the form of data encoded on the conductors via current modulation. The sensor is mounted in a location remote from an irrigation controller. A circuit connected to the sensor transmits an RF signal representing an actual value of a parameter of interest detected by the sensor. A data relay is connected to the hard wired communication link of the irrigation controller. The data relay includes a receiver that receives the RF signal, and circuitry configured to extract the actual value of the parameter of interest and emulate a predetermined set of physical and protocol properties of the hard wired communication link of the irrigation controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838021&OS=08838021&RS=08838021
owner: Hunter Industries, Inc.
number: 08838021
owner_city: San Marcos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130715
---
Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57.

The present invention relates to data communication and more particularly to wireless data communication devices.

An irrigation controller sometimes uses signals from remote environmental sensors that detect rain events temperature solar radiation wind speed humidity soil moisture evapotranspiration flow or other parameters. Typically the irrigation controller and the sensor communicate through a hard wired connection. Many times the hard wired connection uses the same pair of wires to supply power to the sensor as it does to communicate information back to the irrigation controller. Other times separate wires are used for power and control. One of the reasons the communications link is typically a hard wired connection is the fact that many times the irrigation controller is installed in a vandal resistant metal cabinet that shields RF signals making it impractical to use a wireless communications link. Another reason that the communications link is typically a hard wired connection is that an RF receiver circuit typically costs significantly more than a simple hard wired receiver circuit.

As previously mentioned irrigation controllers conventionally retrieve data from a remote sensor using a two conductor hard wired connection. Typically a pair of wires carries both an excitation voltage to power the sensor as well as data in the form of a modulated current draw. Data containing environmental information of interest is communicated to the irrigation controller by modulating the amount of current drawn by the environmental sensor that is sending the data. Current modulation is typically more noise tolerant and affected less by long wire runs than a voltage modulated signal.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a data relay includes an RF receiver a demodulator a microcontroller and a current modulator. The RF receiver is configured to receive an RF signal transmitted from a remote location representing data from a sensor. The demodulator retrieves a base band data signal from the received RF signal. The microcontroller receives the base band data signal and determines an actual value of at least one parameter of interest. The current modulator is controlled by the microcontroller and transmits the actual value of the parameter of interest to a controller on a pair of conductors by emulating a predetermined set of physical and protocol properties of a predetermined two conductor hard wired communication link of the controller.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an irrigation system includes an irrigation controller at least one environmental sensor and a vandal resistant data relay. The irrigation controller includes a two conductor hard wired communications link for accepting an actual value of at least one parameter of interest from an environmental sensor in the form of data encoded on the conductors via current modulation. The environmental sensor is mounted in a location remote from the irrigation controller. A circuit is connected to the environmental sensor for transmitting an RF signal representing an actual value of a parameter of interest detected by the environmental sensor. The vandal resistant data relay is connected to the two conductor hard wired communication link of the irrigation controller. The vandal resistant data relay includes a receiver that receives the RF signal and circuitry configured to extract the actual value of the parameter of interest and emulate a predetermined set of physical and protocol properties of the two conductor hard wired communication link of the irrigation controller.

The entire disclosures of the following U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference U.S. Pat. No. 5 097 861 granted Mar. 24 1992 of Hopkins et al. entitled IRRIGATION METHOD AND CONTROL SYSTEM U.S. Pat. No. 5 444 611 granted Aug. 22 1995 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled LAWN AND GARDEN IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. Pat. No. 5 829 678 granted Nov. 3 1998 of Richard E. Hunter et al. entitled SELF CLEANING IRRIGATION REGULATOR VALVE APPARATUS U.S. Pat. No. 6 088 621 granted Jul. 11 2000 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled PORTABLE APPARATUS FOR RAPID REPROGRAMMING OF IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630 granted Apr. 13 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled EXPANDABLE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH OPTIONAL HIGH DENSITY STATION MODULE U.S. Pat. No. 6 842 667 granted Jan. 11 2005 of Beutler et al. entitled POSITIVE STATION MODULE LOCKING MECHANISM FOR EXPANDABLE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 883 283 filed Jun. 30 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled HYBRID MODULAR DECODER IRRIGATION CONTROLLER now U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 115 granted Jun. 27 2007 pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 425 filed Nov. 9 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. and entitled EVAPOTRANSPIRATION UNIT CONNECTABLE TO IRRIGATION CONTROLLER pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 288 831 filed Nov. 29 2005 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. and entitled EVAPOTRANSPIRATION UNIT FOR RE PROGRAMMING AN IRRIGATION CONTROLLER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 045 527 filed Jan. 28 2005 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled DISTRIBUTED ARCHITECTURE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER now U.S. Pat. No. 7 245 991 granted Jul. 17 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 289 886 of Peter J. Woytowitz granted Oct. 30 2007 entitled MODULAR IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH SEPARATE FIELD VALVE LINE WIRING TERMINALS U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 058 of LaMonte D. Porter granted May 29 2007 entitled MODULAR IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH INDIRECTLY POWERED STATION MODULES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 458 551 filed Jul. 19 2006 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. entitled IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH INTERCHANGEABLE CONTROL PANEL and pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 042 301 filed Mar. 4 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH SELECTABLE WATERING RESTRICTIONS. The aforementioned U.S. patents and applications are all assigned to Hunter Industries Inc. the assignee of the subject application.

The present invention provides a vandal resistant data relay which adapts a hard wired data interface into a wireless infrastructure. While the embodiment described herein functions with an irrigation controller as part of an evapotranspiration ET based irrigation system the data relay could be used in other applications such as lighting controllers and industrial automation. The described embodiment functions with an irrigation controller that receives data encoded by modulating current on a two wire hard wired connection. However the present invention can be adapted for use with other physical layers wiring configurations and signal characteristics . In each of these applications signals are brought into a controlling device such as an irrigation controller where these signals represent some useful piece of information which the controlling device uses to optimally achieve its function. In the case of an ET based irrigation controller the information can represent rain events temperature solar radiation wind speed humidity soil moisture evapotranspiration flow or other parameters. In the case of a lighting controller the information could represent ambient light temperature detected motion or other parameters.

The data relay of the present invention adapts a control system designed for hard wired data gathering into a wireless system while maintaining vandal resistance. This allows the control system to be manufactured in its reduced cost version without burdening every unit produced with the additional cost associated with the wireless communications capability. The data relay of the present invention contains an RF receiver or transceiver that gathers data from a wireless sensor or other data retrieval device that contains a transmitter or transceiver and then emulates the physical and protocol layers of the analogous hardwired sensor to the controller. This data relay functionality is transparent to the controller i.e. the controller does not know that the actual sensor is wirelessly connected. This feature is advantageous in keeping the design of the controller free from hardware protocol and software variations.

The irrigation controller may be the Pro C manufactured by Hunter Industries Inc. The ET module and the weather station may be the Solar Sync units manufactured by Hunter Industries Inc. See pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 181 894 filed Jul. 29 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION SYSTEM WITH ET BASED SEASONAL WATERING ADJUSTEMENT the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

An advantageous aspect of the illustrated embodiment of the data relay of present invention pertains to its physical configuration in the form of a compact data relay module B and C . Because of the level of integration available in modern IC s the RF circuitry microcontroller to supervise it and power supply can all fit on a printed circuit board PCB measuring only one to two square inches in area. The PCB is housed inside a compact rectangular outer housing that supports the short antenna . The antenna is embedded inside an outer protective jacket . The outer housing includes a hollow cylindrical stub with a standard male pipe thread that allows it to be screwed into any standard pipe fitting with a female thread such as provided on an electrical junction box connected to electrical conduit leading to an electrical junction box containing the irrigation controller . The cylindrical stub may also be inserted through a standard knock out through the side wall of the electrical junction box as illustrated in . The electrical junction box may be made of sheet metal such as stainless steel sheet metal or it may be made of plastic. Wires not illustrated pass from the data relay circuitry of to the irrigation controller through the bore of the stub .

The data relay module emulates the physical and protocol layers of the hard wired communications link otherwise used to connect to the sensors . The physical configuration of the data relay module has a number of practical advantages. For example it provides the capability of mounting the data relay module outside of a metal box thereby providing a wireless solution into a metal enclosure which would otherwise shield and prevent the entry any RF signal containing information from environmental sensors. This solution is different than simply providing relay circuitry inside the metal enclosure and connecting the same to an antenna mounted outside of the metal enclosure which may not be vandal resistant. The antenna would have to be connected to the RF receiver using special coaxial RF cabling which is both costly and difficult to splice. Furthermore the more cable that is added the greater the RF loss and lower the range for the system. The data relay module provides an integrated and optimal RF solution which places the antenna as close as possible to the receiver while allowing the remote function to be accomplished with also any kind of cable.

The irrigation controller may not be in an area conducive to wireless reception. For instance the irrigation controller may be mounted on wall inside a garage which has metallic siding on the outside that shields the RF signals. The irrigation controller may be mounted in a basement which is subterranean and receives very little RF energy. In these situations the data relay module may be mounted in a location that allows for better reception such as on the outside wall of the garage and hard wired to the irrigation controller .

While I have described an embodiment of a data relay that is particularly suited for use in an irrigation system it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that my invention can be used in other applications. In addition modifications and adaptations of my data relay will occur to such skilled persons. Therefore the protection afforded my invention should only be limited in accordance with the scope of the following claims.

