---

title: Method and system of manufacturing a golf club, and a manufactured golf club head
abstract: A method of manufacturing a custom golf club, the method including measuring swing dynamics of a user, determine club design parameters based on the measure swing dynamics of the user, generating a computer model representing an custom golf club head based on the determined design parameters, and manufacturing the custom golf club head based on the generated computer model using additive layer manufacturing processes using powder material and a high energy beam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594368&OS=09594368&RS=09594368
owner: KRONE GOLF LIMITED
number: 09594368
owner_city: Hobe Sound
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130315
---
The field of invention relates generally to the fitting of golf equipment and the manufacturing of golf equipment and more particularly to systems and methods designed to improve a golfer s swing and manufacture golf equipment customized to individual golfer s swing.

A wide variety of methods have been used to form clubs have been used. Specifically golf club heads have been forged or cast and then ground or machined and then polished to achieve desired dimensions and appearances. However these processes have a number of short comings.

Further golf club heads have generally been manufactured with average dimensions based on an average user without any regard to the specific needs and swing dynamics of specific golfers. This was due to the expense and or time required made customizing a head mold to incorporate design changes extremely impractical. Thus to reduce cost and or save time a common mold has been used for the head design regardless of the swing dynamics of users. However not all golfers are identical and many golfers may benefit from optimization of club design parameters such as lie angle loft angle or other design parameters. Through post manufacturing processing such as grinding or bending with a vice may allow some custom fitting of clubs these processes may have limited effectiveness and can create additional problems such as metal fatigue or weakening of the club.

Additionally existing manufacturing techniques may also require additional post processing such as grinding due to manufacturing tolerances. Further existing techniques have limitations in the shapes and dimensions that can be produced.

Therefore there is a need for golf club heads that can be more customized based on a specific user s swing dynamics as well as manufacturing methods that can produce a wider variety of shapes with tighter manufacturing tolerances.

A general purpose of present application is a method of manufacturing a golf club head that can customize more club design parameters to a specific user s swing dynamics. Various embodiments of the present application may provide a method of manufacturing a golf club head by measuring a user s swing dynamics determining club design parameters based on measured swing dynamics generating a computer model of a club head based on the determined design parameters and using the computer model to manufacture the golf club head using additive layer manufacturing processes using powder material and a high energy beam.

An additional embodiment of the present application may also provide a described herein may also include a system for manufacturing a golf club the system including a launch monitor that measures a user s swing dynamics of a user an club design parameter determining engine that determines club design parameters based on the measured swing dynamics of the user a computer modeler that generates a computer model representing a custom golf club head based on the determined design parameters and an additive layer manufacturing device that manufactures the custom golf club head based on the generated computer model using additive layer manufacturing processes using powder material and a high energy beam.

An additional embodiment of the present application may also provide a method of manufacturing a custom golf club by measuring swing dynamics of a user determine club design parameters based on the measure swing dynamics of the user generating a computer model representing a portion of a custom golf club head based on the determined design parameters manufacturing the portion of the custom golf club head based on the generated computer model using additive layer manufacturing processes using powder material and a high energy beam and attaching the portion of the custom golf club head to a preformed partial club head to assemble the custom golf club head.

Other features and advantages of the present application may become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein provide for a method of manufacturing a golf club head. However although various embodiments of the present invention will be described herein it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

After the user interview in action the user s current clubs may be measured in action to obtain current club design parameters that may be effecting the User s golf shots. In particular a variety of current club design parameters may be measured including loft lie face angle hosel offset club length club weight club swing weight shaft weight shaft flex grip size grip weight and any other parameters as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

After the design parameters of the user s current clubs are measured in action the user s swing dynamics are analyzed in action . Specifically a user s swing dynamics or Launch parameters with several clubs may be measured with a launch monitor such as trackman foresight etc. . Using the launch monitor a variety of swing dynamics or launch parameters are measured including head speed launch angle backspin attack angle ball speed swing plane angles club path spin axis horizontal launch angle tempo and any other parameters as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

After swing dynamics or launch parameters are measured in action design parameters for the custom clubs are determined in action through a fitting process. Specifically initial fitting clubs determined based on the user s height swing path and launch conditions. Then final head and club specifications are determined by fitting for 

From this fitting club design parameters for the head and final club components are determined. Head design specifications are then determined from the fitting process to specify the optimal head design and properties. Thus the club specifications are determined at least in part from the results of the dynamic fitting process.

After the design parameters are determined in action a computer model of the club head is generated in action . Thus rather than modifying i.e. by bending adjusting weight of existing parts a club head computer model is designed based on the determined design parameters. In some embodiments the club head id generated by first by selecting a base model Driver Fairway Wood Hybrid Iron Wedge Putter etc. from a library of club head models. Then club design parameters such as volume loft lie face angle weight CG properties inertial properties shape offset are entered into the base model which is then updated based on the user s required specifications. Additionally in some embodiments the face thickness and face thickness geometry i.e. back face geometry discussed in greater detail below may be adjusted based on the user s head speed and control tendencies. The customized model can be encoded as a CAD file that will be used to manufacture parts.

After the computer model is generated in action the club head can be manufactured using additive layer manufacturing techniques that use powdered metal and high energy beams such as a laser or electron beam in action .

The powdered materials used can be a wide variety of materials and including most metals including titanium Ti Steel Aluminum Al Titanium aluminum alloys Titanium Aluminide or TiAl which generally cannot be cast or welded. More specifically example materials include but are not limited to 

The manufacturing apparatus may also include a heat shield between the electron beam and the powder hopper s to prevent melting of the powdered materials prior to being moved into the build tank . A rake is provided to move powdered material into the build tank as needed during the manufacturing.

The electron beam is moved across the surface of the powdered material in the build tank based on the computer model to form the club head on a layer by layer basis. As each layer is formed the club head rests on the start plate and build platform . As the club head is formed the start plate and a build platform are moved downward to provide space form successive layers and additional powdered material .

Though an electron beam is used by the apparatus shown in the present application is not limited to electron beam based technologies and may include any additive layer manufacturing method that uses powdered material and high energy beams such as an electron beam or a laser .

Additionally is a diagram illustrating an additive layer manufacturing apparatus using a laser beam which may be used in a method according to an embodiment of the present application. The additive layer manufacturing apparatus using a laser beam works in a similar manner to the apparatus discussed above. Specifically the manufacturing apparatus includes an laser that generates a laser beam . The generated laser beam is directed at a scanner system that redirects and controls the laser beam to scan the laser beam across the surface of a fabrication bed filled with powdered material . Further adjacent to the fabrication powder bed a powder delivery system is provided to add additional powder material to the fabrication bed as needed. The powder deliver system includes a powder tank filled with powdered material a powder deliver piston that moves upward to push powdered material upward and a roller that directs powdered material to the fabrication powder bed .

The scanner system controls the laser beam to move the laser across the surface of the fabrication bed based on the computer model to form the object being fabricated layer by layer. As successive layers of the object are formed a fabrication piston is retracted downward to gradually lower the object and allow powdered material to flow over the top of the object so that successive layers can be formed.

As with the electron beam apparatus discussed above a wide variety of powdered materials can be used in the laser beam additive layer manufacturing apparatus including most metals including titanium Ti Steel Aluminum Al Titanium aluminum alloys Titanium Aluminide or TiAl which generally cannot be cast or welded. Thus the example materials include the same materials discussed above with respect to the electron beam apparatus

These additive layer manufacturing techniques allow manufacturing of surface features having a minimum thickness of Surfaces equal to 300 microns um . Further structures of mesh or lattice structures such as those shown in discussed below may have a minimum thickness equal to 150 microns um .

In some embodiments the golf head may be manufactured to have a one piece or unibody construction with the face and body crown skirt sole being formed as a one piece golf head having hollow or partially hollow sections without a need to weld components together. In some embodiments a small exit hole may be used to remove powder trapped within hollow areas of the head but the exit hole can be drilled after the head is manufactured.

Using the additive layer manufacturing techniques any type of golf club head could be theoretically manufactured based on a generated computer model without a need to retool producing a variety of clubs faster than methods previously used such as casting stamping or forging. Additionally in some embodiments using additive layer manufacturing techniques may allow a reduction in waste material because 95 98 of powder can be reclaimed and used to make more parts. Conversely forging and casting processes typically produce significant amounts of waste materials.

Additionally additive layer manufacturing techniques may not require welding of multiple pieces together because clubs can have unibody construction to form a one piece golf head having a hollow and or non hollow sections with no welds. Further as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art if welding is not required the occurrence of heat affected zones that degrade material properties may be reduced.

The additive layer manufacturing process eliminates thickness and weight variations often caused by grinding to remove material thermal expansions and shrinkage caused by the lost wax casting process and inconsistencies and tool wear with conventional tooling processes.

As the additive layer manufacturing processes do not require grinding which may cause varying thickness or weak spots tooling or welding which may cause thermal expansion or shrinkage tighter tolerances can be held. These tighter tolerances may also be a reduced need to re work or repair out of spec. parts which can produce a cost savings.

Further additive layer manufacturing processes may not suffer Flow constraints that casting may experience. Further additive layer manufacturing processes have higher porosity compared to casting 99.5 dense and may produce more durable part with thinner structures

Further additive layer manufacturing techniques may allow the manufacturing of complex geometries not achievable with casting machining or forging techniques typically used. illustrate a sampling of the structures that can be manufactured using additive layer manufacturing techniques.

For example internal 3D geometries that can not otherwise be manufactured such as those shown in embodiments a i of may be manufactured. Further undercuts such as those shown in embodiment j of may be formed without the need for special tooling. Further separate pockets and slots typically too difficult to cast or machine such as those shown in embodiments k and l can be manufactured using additive layer manufacturing techniques. Thus iron bodies soles can be made with undercuts complex geometries can be manufactured.

Further 3D lattice core geometries having a thin skin of metal on either side 1 side both sides sandwich or without a skin on either side open core such as those shown in may also be manufactured. Also a thin non metallic skin can also be bonded or joined to the core. These 3D lattice core geometries are discussed in more detail with respect to below.

Additionally face inserts have complex variations in face thickness and face geometry such as those shown in may be manufactured. Specifically as shown in face inserts having multiple regions of different discrete thicknesses can be manufactured with the thickest regions being located at different portions of the club face depending on design needs. Further face plates may have complex interior geometries having lightweight cores or lattice structures between skins as shown in may be manufactured. Since no welding grinding is necessary a minimum thickness necessary to have a maximum Coefficient of Restitution can be manufactured and the inserts still having sufficient durability.

Further these face inserts can be manufactured to be have complex internal geometries using additive layer manufacturing techniques and then welded to bodies formed using conventional methods such as casting stamping or forging. These face inserts can be custom made for based on the player s striking tendencies i.e. to have max thickness where the player consistently impacts striking face and with thicknesses reducing to maximize the Coefficient of Restitution.

Further the additive layer manufacturing techniques is not limited to manufacturing the club head and may also be used to manufacture thin metal foils. These thin metal foils may be manufactured and wrapped around on a composite or metal shaft substrate to change or customize the performance characteristics and or add cosmetic effects to a golf shaft. shows an example embodiment of a thin metal foil and shows the thin metal foil wrapped around a shaft . Alternative a Lightweight lattice structure can be inserted into the hollow inner diameter of the shaft to change the stiffness performance of the shaft.

As discussed above complex 3D geometries or 3D lattices can be manufactured as a weight efficient support structure or as a lightweight supporting core for thin walls.

These lattice geometries manufactured using additive layer manufacturing techniques can be applied to any part of a golf club head including the sole crown skirt etc. and is not particularly limited to only the hitting face. These lattices can also provide an internal support structure to join two sections for example can be a bridge between the crown and the sole to provide stiffness . Further the lattice geometries can be manufactured separately or integrated into 1 piece heads.

Additive layer manufacturing can also allow the development of any other details or shapes that have previously been too fine to be cast or machined such as springs and teeth of a snap clip allowing components weights to be attached to an exterior of a club head. The embodiments shown and discussed above are not intended to be limited and are merely provided as examples.

Additionally as additive layer manufactured golf club components require minimal post manufacturing finishing that may reduce manufacturing cost or time. Further additive layer manufacturing discussed above can also allow the printing of a surface finish or engineered texture on the face or any exterior surface to influence spin aerodynamics or acoustics sound .

After the heads and other club components are manufactured and finished in action of the the heads are assembled to the required shafts and grips to achieve the club specifications length weight flex etc. determined as optimal during the fitting process in action . Thus a final golf club is supplied that is made specifically for the individual golfer based on his unique player characteristics and his unique requirements to give optimal performance. The properties and parameters of the head components are determined and manufactured to be customized to the individual to a much greater extent that was previous available.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader or the like . Output device interface may include a display monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example implementations input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to computing device e.g. a mobile computing device with buttons or touch screen input user interface and an output or printing display or a television .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or by other labels.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and networks in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions to implement at least one implementation e.g. a described implementation . Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can be originated from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. To implement a described implementation one or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit design parameter determining unit club head modeling unit manufacturing controller and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example design parameter determining unit club head modeling unit action unit along with one or more other units may implement one or more processes shown in . In some example implementations design parameter determining unit may include two or more separate units. The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit design parameter determining unit club head modeling unit manufacturing controller . For example club head modeling unit may generate a computer model of a club head based on design parameters determined by the design parameter determining unit based on received user s swing dynamics.

The design parameter determining unit may use the inter unit communication mechanism to receive a user s swing dynamics input via the input unit . Further the design parameter determining unit may determine club design parameters based on the input user swing dynamics and may communicate the club design parameters to the club head modeling unit . The club head modeling unit may generate computer model of a golf club head based on the determined club design parameters and communicate the computer model to the manufacturing controller . The manufacturing controller may use the generated model to control additive layer manufacturing equipment to manufacture a golf club head based on the received model.

In some examples logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit the design parameter determining unit club head modeling unit manufacturing controller in order to implement an implementation described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be embodied in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly not limited.

