---

title: Systems and methods for ranking of cloud executed mini-games based on tag content and social network content
abstract: Methods for managing mini-games created and executed in a game cloud system are provided. One method includes providing a plurality of mini-games stored in the game cloud system. Each mini-game is created based on a video recording of a game play for a game title, and is shared in a social network. The method further includes identifying user interactions for each mini-game and ranking the mini-games based on the identified user interactions associated with each mini-game. Then, some or all of the mini-games are displayed on a game site and/or a social network site in an order that is based on the ranking.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09358461&OS=09358461&RS=09358461
owner: Sony Interactive Entertainment America LLC
number: 09358461
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130227
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 746 083 filed on Dec. 26 2012 and titled Systems and Methods for Ranking of Cloud Executed Mini Games Based on Tag Content and Social Network Content which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for managing user created mini games in a game cloud executed system based on user interactions.

Cloud systems using computing resources hardware and software deliver services over a network typically the Internet . The services in the context of gaming enable streaming of content to remote clients wherein most processing is done on servers which may be distributed. Input provided at the remote clients will in turn drive execution of the game without the need for dedicated gaming hardware at the client s location. Cloud gaming therefore has been increasing in popularity because users find it easier to access more titles without complex hardware restrictions and game suppliers find it easier manage game code from centralized locations.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for managing mini games in a game cloud executed system based on user interactions and in particular to the ranking and displaying of particular mini games to others to encourage sharing of such mini games. Several inventive embodiments of the present invention are described below.

In one embodiment a method for managing mini games created and executed in a game cloud system is disclosed. The method includes providing a plurality of mini games stored in the game cloud system where each of the plurality of mini games is created based on a video recording of a game play for a game title and each of the plurality of mini games is shared in a social network. The method further includes identifying the user interactions for each of the plurality of mini games and ranking the mini games based on the identified user interactions associated with each mini game and displaying the mini games in an order that is based on the ranking. The disclosed method is executed by a processor.

In yet another embodiment a system having a game cloud system is disclosed. The game cloud system includes a mini game processor a tag processor and a social connection manager. The mini game processor is configured to provide a plurality of mini games stored in the game cloud system and each of the plurality of mini games is created based on a video recording of a game play of a video game title. The social connection manager is configured to enable posting of at least one of the plurality of mini games to be shared in a social network and to obtain social network content for each shared mini game. The tag processor is further configured to obtain tag content for each shared mini game and the mini game processor is further configured to rank the plurality of mini games based in part on the tag content and the social network content associated with each mini games.

In still yet another embodiment another method for sharing mini games is disclosed. The method includes generating a video recording of game play of a game title in a cloud gaming system while playing the game title online in a streaming format enabling viewing of the video recording providing controls to enable selection of a portion of the video recording. The method further includes generating mini game that corresponds to the portion of the video recording selected and enabling sharing of the mini game. The mini game is a portion of the game title that is playable online in a streaming format and is shared with the portion of the video recording. In response to the sharing the tag data is received from one or more users that either played the portion of the video recording or played the mini game. The tag data is used to rank the mini game and the ranking is used to display the mini game on a website in an order that is based in part on the ranking.

Other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

The following embodiments describe systems and methods for managing shared mini games in a cloud based system. The management of the mini games includes but is not limited to classifying ranking and displaying the shared mini games based on user interactions associated with the mini games.

In one embodiment as described in greater detail below the mini games to be shared are custom defined by users. The creation in one embodiment begins by allowing users to play a full game which they have access to play from an online database.

The game play in one embodiment is via a cloud based processing system that enables streaming of online game play while allowing users to provide interactive input from remote locations that are connected to the internet. While the user plays the game a video recording of the game is created showing the game play activity from the game play session. In one embodiment a user is allowed to select a portion of the video recording. The selection of the portion of the video recording is used in one embodiment to define the portion of the mini game that is to be created. The user defined mini game will therefore be a segment or part of the full game with a defined start and end point as defined by the user. In one embodiment the segment may have all of the features of the full game and in other embodiments less features objects controls etc. than the full game has. In one embodiment the user defines the start and end points by selecting the start and end points in the video recording.

The result is a custom selected section of the full game defined as an executable mini game. As the mini game was defined from the video recording the mini game may also be provided with an accompanying video recording portion or clip. In one embodiment as more users create mini games it is possible that many different mini games can be created from the same full game title with each mini game having different start and end points.

Because the mini games have customization associated with the user that created the mini game users may have a desire to share the mini games with others. For example the portion of the video recording that is associated with each mini game will show the game play of the user that created the mini game. The game play may show for example the accomplishments by the user such as particular game scores awards etc.

In one embodiment the mini games can be shared via a game network where users of the game network can post their created mini games. In another embodiment users can post links to the mini games on social networks. As a result of the sharing other users in the game network or social network will be allowed access to the mini games. In one embodiment the mini game will include two parts one part is the video portion showing the game play of the user that created the mini game and a second part is an executable mini game that parallels the section of the full game that was used to create the mini game.

During the sharing process therefore users will be allowed to view the portion of the video recording of the mini game and also play the mini game posted by the creator. During the viewing of the video recording portion or the playing of the mini game executable portion users can introduce tag data. The tag data can be in the form of comments text posting videos images or other annotations. The tag data can also include ranking data. The ranking data can include the introduction of tag data that indicates likes or dislikes number or stars higher rating points lower rating points etc. The tag data as received from users based on the sharing of the mini games can be used to provide a ranking to the various posted mini games. In other embodiments the tag data or the rate at which mini games are shared viewed played commented on etc. can be used to provide higher ratings to the mini games. In one embodiment higher rated mini games will be provided with higher prominence on game websites. In other embodiments mini games that are highly rated can provide rewards to the posting user. This in turn may provide for a built in mechanism to encourage better quality posting of mini games.

In one embodiment even though the tag data is set at one still video frame view i.e. the image that is present on a screen when phase is selected when the tag data is later shown it can be allow to stay in a viewable state for a period of time which can encompass a time when multiple frames of video are shown. For example tag data can be shown during playback for several seconds. If the frame rate of the video is for example 60 frames per second other frame rates are possible either slower or faster it should be understood that tag data can be displayed for a period of time that will involve the display of many frames of video. It is also understood that frames will in some embodiments include compression to reduce transmission latency.

In one embodiment user interactions with a mini game may include tag content and social network content associated with the mini game. The tag content of a mini game includes game tag data entered for video frames of the mini game during the full game play game tag data entered for the video frames of the mini game during a view of part of the video recording or view of full game play recording mini game tag data entered during play of the mini game etc. The social network content of the mini game may include the number of times the mini game is shared the number of times the mini game is viewed the number of times the mini game is played the number of recommendations for the mini game the number of comments entered for the mini game the number of created mini game play videos the rate at which mini games are shared the rate at which mini games are tagged the quality of the tag data the number of plays by highly rated players etc.

Each classified and ranked mini game may be displayed based on the classifying categories in the forms of min game symbols e.g. mini game icons . When a mouse is hovered over a mini game symbol some of the video frames of the mini game represented by the mini game symbol will be automatically played. Further examples and embodiments will now be described below with reference to the exemplary drawings.

It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

In one embodiment game cloud system includes a game execution engine a recording engine a mini game processor a tag processor a user processor a title index engine a game session manager user access logic a network interface and a social connection manager . Game cloud system may further include a plurality of gaming storage systems such as a game state store a game code store a recorded game store a tag data store a game title store a game network user store a mini game data store and a social network data store . In one embodiment game cloud system is a system that can provide game applications services gaming related digital content and interconnectivity among systems applications users and social networks. Game cloud system may communicate with user device and social media providers via network interface that will enable wired and wireless communication methods. In one embodiment each social media provider includes at least one social graph that shows social network user interconnections.

In one embodiment a social media provider can be the game cloud system itself whereby user relationships are managed without the need for external social media providers . In still other embodiments the system can operate as a hybrid system wherein social relationships are managed using social graph data from third party social media providers via API interface accesses or the like and user relationships with other users as defined by the game cloud system.

In one embodiment a user e.g. user U can access the services provided by game cloud system and social media providers by way of user device . User device can include any type of device having a processor and memory wired or wireless portable or not portable. User device which is shown connected to Internet includes a display that can be a touchscreen or a display typically provided by a flat panel display a cathode ray tube CRT or other device capable of rendering a display. Alternatively user device can have its display separate from the device similar to a desktop computer or a laptop computer. In one embodiment user device can be in the form of a smartphone a tablet computer or hybrids that provide touch screen capability in a portable form factor. One exemplary device can include a portable phone device that runs an operating system and is provided with access to various applications apps that may be obtained over Internet and executed on the local portable device e.g. smartphone tablet laptop desktop etc. .

In one embodiment user device can install an application that enables executions and views of the games stored and shared by the game cloud system . Further user device can be used to communicate with one or more social media provider s via Internet such that user device may be used to execute a game play or view video recordings of the game plays shared in one or more social media providers . For example user U may access a game posted in one of social media providers by selecting a link on a page stream news feed or post of the social media provider and then playing or viewing the game from user device .

In one embodiment the games posted and shared in social media providers are mini games generated based on video recordings of game plays of available game titles. Those mini games may be stored in recorded game store of game cloud system . While user U is executing or viewing a game or mini game stored in game cloud system user device is capable of receiving game video frames from game cloud system and transmitting user interactive input simply input to game cloud system . The received game video frames can be shown in display of user device .

In one embodiment a user e.g. user U may create a user account and register the created user account with game cloud system . After the user account is registered with game cloud system game cloud system may provide a user ID to this registered user account and save the user ID in a user profile associated with the registered user account. The user profile associated with a user account will be described in more detail with reference to . In one embodiment the user profile associated with a user account may be saved in a user database in game network user store .

In one embodiment user access logic may be used to detect all accesses made by user U either through user device or other suitable devices and be used to verify the user log in information e.g. the name and password for the user account of user U . After user U logs into his or her user account user access logic may communicate the user login information with user processor that in turn updates the user login information stored in the user profile. Further user access logic may communicate the user login information with social connection manager so that social connection manager can pull the names of the user s social network friends from one or more social media providers via network interface . The names of the user s social network friends may be received by social connection manager which in turn transmits the received information to game network user store to be saved in the user profile of user U.

After logging in the user can access services provided by game cloud system via game session manager . For example game session manager may inform user processor of the user login information so that user processor may record or update the user login information in the user profile associated with this user. In one embodiment the user profile is stored in game network user store . User processor may also communicate with title index engine to identify game titles associated with the user account. The game titles associated with the user account may be previously purchased by the user previously played by the user and or free game titles identified and made available by the game providers. In this example available game titles may therefore be stored in game title store .

In one embodiment after a user chooses an available game title to play a game session for the chosen game title may be initiated by the user through game session manager . Game session manager first accesses game state store to retrieve the saved game state of the last session played by the user for the selected game if any so that the user can restart the game play from a previous game play stop point. Once the resume or start point is identified the game session manager may inform game execution engine to execute the game code of the chosen game title stored in game code store . After a game session is initiated game session manager may pass the game video frames i.e. streaming video data via network interface to a user device e.g. user device .

During game play game session manager may communicate with game execution engine recording engine and tag processor to generate or save a recording e.g. video of the game play or game play session as the game play processes. In one embodiment the video recording of the game play can include game tag data entered or provided during game play and other game related metadata. The video recording of game play may be saved in recorded game store . Any game tag data may be saved in tag data store and the metadata may be saved in game state store . More detail regarding the process of tagging content will be described below.

In one embodiment a mini game may be created using information from the video recording of the game play e.g. via mini game processor . For example after a user plays a game and the video recording is created the user can simply watch a reply of the video recording if his or her prior game play. When the user is watching a reply of the video recording the user may find one or more parts to be particularly interesting. For example the user may have achieved a high score or completed an interesting task during the game play. The user in one embodiment is provided with controls to select a portion of the video recording which will then be used by mini game processor to construct a mini game based on the selected portion of the video. In one embodiment the mini game will include the executable code necessary to render the functionality or part of the functionality that was used to create the content of the selected portion of the video recording.

Thus a user wishing to play the mini game will be provided with a substantially similar game play experience as the user that originally played the game that created the video recording. For instance if the original game play included a scene where the user is riding a bike over a jump and the user selects that portion from the video recording of his game play the new mini game would include code to enable similar or substantially similar game play. That is the mini game would enable the user or other users to play the mini game wherein game play would include riding a bike over a jump. In this case the user playing the mini game may or may not achieve the same game score for the jump.

The portion of the video recording associated with the created mini game may be saved in recorded game store and remaining portion of the video recording may be erased after a defined time period by recording engine . If no mini games are created for a video recording of a game play the video recording of the game play may be erased after a defined time period by recording engine .

In one embodiment the created mini game may be posted by user U to a webpage in a social network via social connection manager to enable sharing with his or her social network friends. Alternatively the created mini game may be posted by user U to a webpage in a game network maintained by game cloud system for sharing with his or her game network friends. Sharing however should not be limited to friends. Sharing can also be extended to other users that may have similar likes or game play similarities.

In one embodiment the game code that defines a mini game can be the same code of the full game from which the mini game was created. During the creation of the mini game by mini game processor game play metadata which can include game state is used to identify what parts of the game code of the full game are needed to make an executable mini game. When the parts of the code of the full game are all identified the code that defines the mini game can in one embodiment be defined by pointers or references to the game code of the full game. By using points and or references the need to create new code packages for each produced mini game is reduced. As user s create mini games from their game titles the code or pointers for the created mini games can be associated to the creating user in the user store . This way each created mini game can be defined by its original creator and metrics regarding play of the mini games can be attributed or linked to the creating user. For instance if a particular user creates mini game that are played and or shared often with other users the popularity of the mini game can be tracked and ranked against other mini games and users.

A user that creates mini games that are shared often or tagged with higher frequency can be provided with rewards. The rewards can be provided for example by the developer of the game title from which the mini games are created. As more mini games are made from particular game titles the game title may grow in popularity and will encourage users to purchase a full version. In one embodiment full versions of a game title are unlocked to enable mini game creation. In one embodiment play of a mini game will allow creation of video recordings of the mini game play but may not enable creation of mini games without having access to the full game title.

Still continuing with in one embodiment during a game play user interactive input entered by user U may be transmitted to game session manager of game cloud system . User interactive input besides input used to drive game play may include tag content e.g. texts images video recording clips etc. The tag content can include game tag data and mini game tag data. Game tag data may be entered by user U while playing an available full game title or viewing a video recording of the game play and mini game tag data may be entered by user U while viewing a mini game. The mini game may be a mini game that is created by user U based on a video recording of the game play or a shared mini game posted by other users e.g. social network friends of user U.

In one example if user interactive input is tag content the tag content may be received by game session manager which in turn informs tag processor user processor that the tag content is received. Tag processor may be used to save the tag content to tag data store . User processor may be used to save a tag pointer that points to where the tag content is stored in tag data store to the user profile associated with user U. Mini game processor may be used to save a tag pointer that points to where the tag content is stored in tag data store in a mini game data profile stored in mini game data store if the tag content is related to a mini game.

In one embodiment mini game processor may be used to analyze the tag content of a mini game and identify video frames with more tag content as a representative frame for the mini game. For example when a mini game is created the mini game may be shown as an icon or still image. The still image may be for example one of the video frames of the mini game. The more interesting the frame is the more likely it is that the mini game may be played by others. Thus in this embodiment the frame that is selected to be the still image may be automatically selected based on the tagging content associated with particular frames.

In another embodiment mini game processor may be used to manage the mini games stored in recorded game store . The mini game management may include but not limited to mini game classification mini game ranking based on the user interactions to the mini games mini game representative picture identification mini game view or execution initiation etc. For instance if certain mini games have a higher number of user interactions this may indicate that the content of the mini game is interesting and or is being shared the most. As such some mini games can be displayed more prominently on a website relative to other mini games based on the degree of tagging that such mini games experience.

The user interactions of the mini games may include the tag content and the social network content of the mini games. In one example mini game processor may instruct social connection manager via game session manager to post some or all of the mini games stored in recorded game store at one or more social media providers so that those mini games can be shared either viewed or played by the social network users. Social connection manager may periodically pull social network content associated with those shared mini games from social media providers and save the social network content in social network data store .

The social network content of a shared mini game may include without limitation the number of times the mini game is viewed played shared and recommended by the social network users. The social network content may also include the number of comments made by social network users. In one embodiment mini game processor may save a social network content pointer that points to the social network content for a mini game to the mini game data profile associated with the mini game.

As shown in users U and U are geographically located closer GCS user U is located about in the middle of the distance between GCS and GCS user U is located in between GCS and GCS but is closer to GCS users U and U are located near GCS users U and U are located near GCS and users U U and U are located near GCS. Although six game cloud systems and eleven users are shown it is to be understood that in practice more or less game cloud systems may be included in game cloud network B and more or less users may access the services provided by game cloud network B.

In one embodiment each GCS in game cloud network B is located in a data center that houses computer systems and associated components to support multiple operating systems. As an example the structure of each GCS may be similar to GCS as shown in . Although it should be understood that a GCS may include fewer or more processing components or logic elements depending on the processing desired. In one embodiment each GCS in game cloud network B may communicate with other GCSs so that the information for various user profiles stored in respective game network user stores of a GCS can get updated and synchronized. Through the communication among the GCSs game cloud network B can dynamically distribute the work load to provide load balancing and assign users based on the work load of each GCS and distance factors.

In one embodiment when a user is trying to log into his or her user account online via a user device depending upon the geographical location of the user the user may be routed to a GCS that is closest to his or her user device. For example because user U along with his or her user device is located near GCS user U utilizes the game services provided GCS after his or her user device is connected to GCS. Similarly user U may utilize the game services provided by GCS user U and user U may utilize the game services provided by GCS user U and user U may utilize the game services provided by GCS and user U user U and user U may utilize the game services provided by GCS based on geographical distance to respective CGSs.

In another embodiment when a user is located approximately in the middle of two GCSs the user may access the game services provided by both GCSs. For example user U is located approximately in the middle of GCS and GCS. When user U is trying to log into his account the user device of user U may be connected to either GCS or GCS or both GCSs depending upon the work load and latency of the GCSs. In still another embodiment a user may be connected to a GCS that is not the closest one to this user because the GCS that is closest to this user is experiencing heavy work load. For example user U may be initially connected to GCS because user U is located closest to GCS. Due to heavy work load of GCS user U may be disconnected from GCS and be connected to GCS. During the period of switching from GCS to GCS user U may be temporarily connected to both GCS and GCS for a while and then get disconnected from GCS after GCS has replicated the game state of user U in GCS. Thus the switching from one GCS to another GCS is transparent to the user without affecting the user s experience with the game. In another example user U may be directly routed to GCS because GCS has larger capacity than GCS.

In one embodiment the friends field may be populated automatically by accessing external social networks. In this embodiment the game cloud system may include code instructions that enable calls to external application programming interfaces APIs of social networks. The APIs can be used to query the social networks for data concerning the social grid and relationships stored in the social grid of the social network. The data obtained from the social grid may be used to introduce the mini games to friends of the user such as by automatically posting mini games to newsfeeds of friends or the like. These functions will enable wider sharing tagging rating and commenting on mini games as they are shared and used in greater extents.

In one embodiment the User Name field the User ID field and the User Password field are used to record the name of the user the ID assigned to the user when he or she created the user account in game cloud system and the password set up by the user. The User Login field is used to indicate whether this user is currently logged into his or her user account. As discussed above the user login information may be updated by user processor . The User Level field is used to indicate the game play levels of the user. The User Awards field shows the awards received by the user during previous game plays.

In one embodiment the Game Titles field shows all available game titles for the user. The available game titles may be those that the user is able to freely play because either the user purchased the game or the game is free to play. In still other embodiments the Game Titles field can show or identify the games that the user is able to see such as based on the rating of the games. If the play is a minor only selected games would be made accessible for that player.

As discussed above a user may create one or more mini games based on a video recording of a game title played by the user. If one or more mini games are created for the game title the created mini games will be shown under this game title. In this example there are three available game titles for the user Game Title 1 Game Title 2 and Game Title 3 and one mini game Mini Game 1 is created from Game Title 2. In one embodiment the user can start to play a game by selecting clicking touching etc. on the available game title shown in user profile C. In still other embodiments mini games can be shown on a separate webpage where a user can select to play mini games created by the user or created by other users. The mini games shown can be organized based on game types genres age appropriate etc. Mini games having larger numbers of user interactions e.g. plays or tags maybe ranked higher or placed in a more prominent location on the webpage. From this webpage of mini games users can access to play such mini games or share the mini games with others within the game network or externally via social networks.

In one embodiment the User Tags field in user profile C lists tag content entered by the user. As discussed above the entered tag content is stored in tag data store . For each tag content listed in the User Tags field there is an associated tag pointer that points to the tag content stored in the tag data store . The tag content stored under the User Tags field may be a tag data entered by the user during a game play of the original full game title b tag data entered by the user while viewing the video recording from the game play of the full game title c tag data entered by any user viewing the portion of the video recording used to make or define the mini game or d tag data entered by any user while playing the mini game for the video portion the portion being the portion that was selected from the video recording to define the mini game .

In one embodiment a mini game may be created by a user that owns or has access to a full version of the game that is used to create the mini game. When a user plays the full version of the game a video recording is created of the game play. From this video recording the user can select a portion of the video recording e.g. a starting point and an ending point . This portion of the video is saved and associated to the user. In addition this portion is used to identify metadata and state data that was created when the full version of the game was played to create the video recording. This information is in turn used to identify the code parts of the full game code that will be required to create an executable mini game that will encompass at least the functionality seen in the portion of the video that was selected from the video recording. In one embodiment once the mini game is created the mini game may have two parts.

For example a first part is the portion of the video selected by the user from the full video recording. This portion can be posted and shared so that other users can see a video of the user s game play and the results which may have been interesting . Once a person views the video portion the person can elect to play a mini game for that portion of video.

Also for example a second part is the executable mini game. As in the example above if the portion of the video shows the user jumping an obstacle on a bike the mini game will provide code to allow another play to attempt the jump of the obstacle on the bike. The game scores achieved by the original player using the full game can then be compared to the score achieved by the other play. The other play may also get a good score which may be interesting to share.

Thus to provide further sharing a third part may be the creation of a secondary video portion that is a recording of game play of the mini game by other users. Thus as more players play the mini game there will be many secondary recordings of those game plays which will also be saved and associated with the original mini game and to the players.

In this example however the creator of the mini game is going to be the owner of the full version of the game. If the person playing the mini game wishes to make a mini game him or herself that person can purchase the full copy or full locked access and produce his or her own mini games that can be shared in the same way.

In one embodiment the Friends field in user profile C shows the user s friends in both game network and social network. In this example the user s game network friends are shown under the Game Network sub field and the user s social network friends are shown under the Social Network sub field. The user s friends who belong to both the game network and the social network may be listed under the Common sub field.

For a user profile stored in game network user store the User Name field the User Login field the User Level field and the User Awards field may be viewable to other users in the game network while the other fields in the user profile may not be viewable to other users. In one embodiment a user may select whether to make the Friends field in his or her user profile to be viewable by other users.

In one embodiment when a game player wants to enter game tag data during the game play or execution the game player can send a pause indication to suspend the game play through a user interactive input e.g. a tagging button displayed on a display of the user device used to play this game. When the game play is suspended the game state in response to the pause indication may be stored in game state store of game cloud system . The solid squares and in recorded metadata indicate the corresponding saved metadata including game state when game tag data and are entered respectively. When video recording is viewed the associated tag content may be shown along with the video frames in recorded video frames .

In one embodiment the game player may create a mini game MG based on video recording by indicating a start position and an end position of the mini game during or after a view of video recording . For example based on video recording the game player may choose video frame as the beginning of MG and video frame as the ending of MG by clicking and unclicking a mini game creation check box displayed on a screen respectively. Other controls may also be provided to indicate the desire to create a mini game such as touch screen inputs voice inputs gesture inputs etc. The created MG is playable to view the video recording of MG that is a portion of video recording and is executable to play game code of MG that is a portion of the full game codes of the original game title played by the game player. The video recording of MG in one embodiment has associated therewith game tag data and metadata . When the video recording of MG is viewed game tag data may be shown along with the associated video frames for MG. As noted above the tag data can be provided in various forms. One form for example may include ranking data provided by views or players of the mini game. The ranking can be used to later present or surface particular mini games on a mini game site a website a social site a posting on a social network etc. In one embodiment it can be an option to turn on or off the viewing of the tags when viewing the recorded video of MG.

In another embodiment multiple mini games can be created based on video recording . As shown in MG is not overlapped with MG and MG and MG and MG are partially overlapped with each other. In one embodiment the created mini games e.g. MG MG and MG may be saved in recorded game store by mini game processor of game cloud system .

In this example mini game data profile A may include without limitation the Mini game Name field the Original Game Title field the Mini game Code field the Mini game Beginning Data field the Mini game Ending Data field the Tag Content field the Social Network Content field the Mini game Creator field the Mini game Creation Time field the Mini game classification field and the Mini game Ranking field. The Mini game Name field is used to record the name of the mini game and the Original Game Title field is used to list the name of the original game based on which the mini game is created. The name of the user who created the mini game along with the mini game creation time may be recorded under the Mini game Creator field and the Mini game creation Time field respectively.

The Mini game Code field is used to record a game code beginning pointer that points to the beginning of the game code of the original game and a game code ending pointer that points to the ending of the game code of the original game. It should be understood that the beginning and end of the game code is simply used to connote the start and end of the mini game which is constructed or assembled using the game code of the full game. In many instances the mini game will inherit game code settings that may be been set when the game was first played in the context of the full game. For example if the character is customized to have a particular look that customization may be selected for the mini game segment. In other embodiments default customizations or settings are automatically made in the definition of the mini game code. In one embodiment the Mini game Beginning Data field is used to record a video beginning pointer that points the beginning of the video recording of the game play for the original game title. In one embodiment the Mini game Ending Data field is used to record a video ending pointer that points to the ending of the video recording of the game play.

In one embodiment the Game Tag Data sub field under the Tag Content field may be used to record the pointers that point to the game tag data entered for the video frames associated with the mini game during the game play for the original game or during a view of the video recording of the game play. The Mini game Tag Data sub field under the Tag Content field is used to record the pointers that point to the mini game tag data entered during views of the mini game.

In one embodiment the Social Network Content field may be used to record the number of times the mini game is tagged shared played viewed commented on and recommended. The rate at which any of these social actions take place can also be tracked which can be used as a metric to infer a higher rating or lower.

In one embodiment the number of times the mini game is shared may be recorded under the Shared sub field. In one embodiment the number of times the mini game is played or executed may be recorded under the Played sub field. The number of times the mini game is viewed may be recorded under the Viewed sub field. The number of times the mini game is recommended may be recorded under the Recommended sub field. The Social Network Content field may also be used to record the number of comments entered by network users e.g. under the Comments sub field. The Mini game Play Videos sub field under the Social Network Content field may be used to record the number of mini game play videos created based on the executions of the mini game the names of the users who created those mini game play videos along with their playing scores. In one embodiment the social network content of a mini game may be received via social connection manager of game cloud system . These examples are provided for clarity but it should be understood that fewer or more metrics can be captured or displayed to generate the ranking data.

In one embodiment mini game processor of game cloud system may classify the mini game based on the pre defined categories. For example the mini game may be classified as an action mini game. The classification of the mini game may be recorded under the Mini game Classification field. Further mini game processor of game cloud system may be used to rank all of the mini games in each classified category based on the tag content and the social network content associated with each mini game. The ranking of a mini game may be saved in the Mini game Ranking field.

The social network content of the mini game is generated by the social network users after the mini game is posted for sharing in a social network or a site. For example the social network content may include without limitation the number of times the mini game is shared the number of times the mini game is played the number of times the mini game is viewed and the number of times the mini game is recommended by various users in the social network. The social network content may also include the number of comments made by the social network users and the number of mini game play videos created based on the execution or play of the mini game. Further the number of times the created mini game play videos are viewed may also be included in the social network content. In one embodiment social network users can rank the shared mini game e.g. by giving one to five stars. The social network content may also include the user ranking not shown for the mini game.

The mini games in the Action category may be displayed in the forms of mini game symbols e.g. mini game icons or thumbnails with each mini game symbol having a representative picture. In one embodiment the representative picture is a mini game video frame identified to have tag content exceeding a threshold. The threshold can be for example having a number of tags in a video frame that is more than other frames tags that provide ratings tags that provide higher ratings tags that show higher levels of sharing or commenting etc.

In this example six mini games symbols and are shown at one time in the Action category tab . Alternatively more or less mini game symbols can be displayed at one time in a category tab. In one embodiment if there are more mini games than the ones already displayed in the Action category the other non displayed mini games can be shown by clicking either the upper or down arrows in scroll bar .

In one embodiment the mini games may be stored in recorded game store of game cloud system and displayed by mini game processor based on the classification and ranking of each mini game. In one embodiment the mini games in a classified category may be ranked based on the user interactions of mini games in a classified category. The examples of the user interactions of a mini game include the tag content and the social network content of the mini game entered by social network users.

In one embodiment the representative picture displayed on top of a mini game symbol e.g. a picture image is a mini game video frame that has the most tag content or higher ratings from users. The representative picture may be updated as the tag content of the mini game changes over time. Mini game processor of game cloud system may be used to identify the representative picture for each mini game displayed.

In this example when a user hovers mouse cursor over mini game symbol e.g. passively select the video frames   to  N of the mini game represented by mini game symbol will start to play without having to select the mini game symbol . When a user finds a mini game he or she likes the user can double click e.g. actively select the mini game symbol to launch or start instant play from the cloud gaming system in streaming mode. Alternatively the user may double click a mini game symbol to open another webpage that shows the mini game represented by the mini game symbol along with other related information.

In this embodiment webpage A shows a shared mini game five associated mini game play videos MGPVs that are created based on the executions or plays of mini game by others a play button for executing the game code of the shared mini game a comment input window a user identifier winder a mini game view icon five mini game play video view icons a share button for sharing mini game e.g. with other users who are network friends of user A a recommendation button for recommending mini game a rate icon and a mouse cursor .

In one embodiment user A may simply view the shared mini game by clicking mini game view icon . During the view of mini game user A can initiate a tagging process by pausing the view of mini game to enter mini game tag data and then resuming the view of mini game . The tagging process will be described in more detail related to . After viewing the video recording of the shared mini game user A may play an executable version of the mini game by pushing play button . If mini game gets a lot of plays either due to popularity or by sharing the mini game may get a history of plays. The history of plays for mini game will be represented by the mini game play video MGPVs . In one embodiment the player and the playing score of a created mini game play video are shown to the right of the mini game play video . A user may wish to view the prior plays by clicking the corresponding mini game play video view icon .

User A can also share mini game with his or her social network friends or recommend mini game by pushing share button and recommendation button respectively. User comments for mini game e.g. Good Game may be entered in comment input window . In one embodiment the user recommendations and sharing and the user comments entered for mini game the number of times mini game is viewed or played and the number of mini game play videos created based on the execution of mini game will be recorded in a mini game data profile stored in mini game data store of game cloud system as shown in .

All or some of the data collected from the sharing such as plays sharing with others sharing on social sites rate of sharing rates of tagging number of recommendations actual ratings etc. can be used to generate a ranking score. The ranking score can be used to promote the mini game and encourage additional sharing or play. Games that are higher ranked can earn rewards to the creator and can also provide a higher rating to the user that created the higher ranked mini games.

In one embodiment the game manufacturer of the original game title based on which mini game is created may identify the users who frequently play the shared mini game and the users who got high play scores and send target messages notifications emails and or advertisements to those identified users. In this example Bob has played the shared mini game three times with decent scores. Thus the game manufacturer may send a message to Bob to advertise the original game title and offer purchase discount. Alternatively if mini game is a very popular shared mini game in the cloud the game manufacture may study the video frames and the actions associated with mini game and create new games that include video frames and actions similar to the ones in mini game .

During a view of the shared mini game a user may identify a video frame e.g. image in the video at which action is paused of the mini game and enter mini game tag data in a desired location in the identified video frame. The tagging process may be started or ended by checking or unchecking Tagging check box in control panel . When Tagging check box is checked the video frame that is currently shown e.g. video frame may be suspended by a pause indication. Then the user may move mouse cursor from the original location shown in dashed lines to a desired tagging location in video frame . In one embodiment the user may double click the mouse in the desire tagging location to open up a tagging window to enter mini game tag data e.g. the sentence of Jump height is 10 feet. Although the mini game tag data in this embodiment is text in other embodiments mini game tag data may be images video clips etc. The entered mini game tag data is associated with video frame of the mini game.

The entered mini game tag data may be shown by checking Show Tags check box in control panel . In this example the user identifier of the user Tom Jones who entered the mini game tag data is shown in user identifier display displayed underneath tagging window . In another embodiment user identifier display may also show the time when the user entered the mini game tag data. Alternatively the user can choose to hide the mini game tag data by unchecking Show Tags check box .

In one embodiment the above described tagging process during the view of a mini game can also be used for entering game tag data during the play of the original game or during the view of the video recording of the game play for the original game title based on which the mini game is created.

At operation a plurality of mini games that are stored in a cloud is provided. In one embodiment each of the mini games is created based on a video recording of a game play for an available game title. The plurality of mini games may be stored in recorded game store e.g. by recording engine of game cloud system . In one embodiment mini game processor of game cloud system may be used to identify and provide the plurality of mini games stored in the cloud. Each of the plurality of mini games may be shared in a social network e.g. by social connection manager of game cloud system .

The plurality of mini games may be classified based on the pre defined categories. In one embodiment mini game processor of game cloud system may be used to classify the mini games. The classification of a mini game may be saved in a mini game data profile associated with the mini game stored in mini game data store of game cloud system .

At operation the user interactions for each mini game is identified. In one embodiment the user interactions may include tag content and the social network content for each mini game. In one example mini game processor of game cloud system may be used to identify the tag content and the social network content for each mini game. The tag content of a mini game may be obtained by tag processor of game cloud system and is saved in tag data store of game cloud system . The social network content of a mini game may be obtained by social connection manager of game cloud system and is saved in social network data store of game cloud system . In one embodiment the tag content and the social network content of a mini game may be saved in a mini game data profile associated with the mini game e.g. by mini game processor in mini game data store of game cloud system .

At operation the mini games are ranked based on the identified user interactions associated with each mini game. In one embodiment mini game processor of game cloud system may be used to rank the mini games based on the identified tag content and the social network content. For example if a mini game has more tag content and or social network content the mini game may be ranked higher than the mini game that has less tag content and or social network content. The tag content may include game tag data and mini game tag data. The game tag data of a mini game may be entered for the video frames associated with the mini game during the game play for the game title based on which the mini game is created or entered for the video frames associated with the mini game during a view of the video recording of the game play. The mini game tag data of a mini game may be entered during a view of the mini game. The social network content of a mini game may include without limitation the number of times the mini game is shared the number of times the mini game is played the number of times the mini game is viewed the number of times the mini game is recommended the number of comments entered for the mini game and the number of mini game play videos created based on the execution of the mini game.

At operation the mini games may be displayed in an order that is based on the ranking. In one embodiment mini game processor of game cloud system may be used display the ranked mini games in each classified category in a social network webpage. In some embodiment certain mini games having a higher ranking can be auto posted to friends of the creator or to people in the social network that may be related either by similar game plays related friends owning of similar game titles etc. The posting can be to a social network stream or to a website where mini games are shared. In one embodiment each of the mini games may be displayed in the form of a mini game symbol e.g. mini game icon or mini game thumbnail having a representative picture. The representative picture displayed on the top of a mini game symbol may be a video frame of the mini game that has the most tag content or most relevant tag content.

In one embodiment when a mouse cursor is hovered over a displayed mini game symbol the video frames of the mini game represented by the mini game symbol will be played from the beginning to end without the mini game symbol is being clicked. In one embodiment a displayed mini game is capable of receiving user interactions e.g. from the social network users. The user interactions include tag content and social network content.

In one embodiment a displayed mini game may be executable to play by the social network users. The play of a mini game may be recorded as a mini game video recording. The mini game player can choose whether to create a mini game play video based on the mini game video recording. The created mini game play video can be posted for sharing and for display in the same webpage that displays the mini game. In another embodiment a displayed mini game may be playable to view by the social network users. During the view of the mini games mini game tag data may be entered.

In one embodiment the cloud gaming system is configured to detect the type of client device associated with the user and also a type of controller available for the user to provide input to the cloud based video game. For example in one embodiment when a user logs in to the cloud gaming system they may be presented with an option to designate the type of client device with which they are accessing the cloud gaming system. In one embodiment a series of client device options are presented from which the user may select one corresponding to their client device. The user may also be presented with an option to designate the type of controller device they will use to play a video game. In one embodiment a series of controller options can be presented to the user from which the user may select to designate a controller type corresponding to their controller hardware. In other embodiments the cloud gaming system can be configured to automatically detect the client device type and or the controller device type.

For example at the time of login the client device may send information to the cloud gaming server identifying itself as well as a connected controller device e.g. in response to a request from the cloud gaming server . Based on this information the cloud gaming server may determine an appropriate video game output configuration and input parameter configuration to provide a gaming experience optimized for the user s client device and controller device. In one embodiment a look up table is employed to determine video game configuration and input parameter configuration based on a detected client device and a detected controller device.

It should be appreciated that a given video game may be developed for a specific platform and a specific associated controller device. However when such a game is made available via a cloud gaming system as presented herein the user may be accessing the video game with a different controller device. For example a game might have been developed for a game console and its associated controller whereas the user might be accessing a cloud based version of the game from a personal computer utilizing a keyboard and mouse. In such a scenario the input parameter configuration can define a mapping from inputs which can be generated by the user s available controller device in this case a keyboard and mouse to inputs which are acceptable for the execution of the video game.

In another example a user may access the cloud gaming system via a tablet computing device a touchscreen smartphone or other touchscreen driven device. In this case the client device and the controller device are integrated together in the same device with inputs being provided by way of detected touchscreen inputs gestures. For such a device the input parameter configuration may define particular touchscreen inputs corresponding to game inputs for the video game. For example buttons a directional pad or other types of input elements might be displayed or overlayed during running of the video game to indicate locations on the touchscreen that the user can touch to generate a game input. Gestures such as swipes in particular directions or specific touch motions may also be detected as game inputs. In one embodiment a tutorial can be provided to the user indicating how to provide input via the touchscreen for gameplay e.g. prior to beginning gameplay of the video game so as to acclimate the user to the operation of the controls on the touchscreen.

In some embodiments the client device serves as the connection point for a controller device. That is the controller device communicates via a wireless or wired connection with the client device to transmit inputs from the controller device to the client device. The client device may in turn process these inputs and then transmit input data to the cloud gaming server via a network e.g. accessed via a local networking device such as a router . However in other embodiments the controller can itself be a networked device with the ability to communicate inputs directly via the network to the cloud gaming server without being required to communicate such inputs through the client device first. For example the controller might connect to a local networking device such as the aforementioned router to send to and receive data from the cloud gaming server. Thus while the client device may still be required to receive video output from the cloud based video game and render it on a local display input latency can be reduced by allowing the controller to send inputs directly over the network to the cloud gaming server bypassing the client device.

In one embodiment a networked controller and client device can be configured to send certain types of inputs directly from the controller to the cloud gaming server and other types of inputs via the client device. For example inputs whose detection does not depend on any additional hardware or processing apart from the controller itself can be sent directly from the controller to the cloud gaming server via the network bypassing the client device. Such inputs may include button inputs joystick inputs embedded motion detection inputs e.g. accelerometer magnetometer gyroscope etc. However inputs that utilize additional hardware or require processing by the client device can be sent by the client device to the cloud gaming server. These might include captured video or audio from the game environment that may be processed by the client device before sending to the cloud gaming server. Additionally inputs from motion detection hardware of the controller might be processed by the client device in conjunction with captured video to detect the position and motion of the controller which would subsequently be communicated by the client device to the cloud gaming server. It should be appreciated that the controller device in accordance with various embodiments may also receive data e.g. feedback data from the client device or directly from the cloud gaming server.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced with various computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a wire based or wireless network.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention can employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can be thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can include computer readable tangible medium distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although the method operations were described in a specific order it should be understood that other housekeeping operations may be performed in between operations or operations may be adjusted so that they occur at slightly different times or may be distributed in a system which allows the occurrence of the processing operations at various intervals associated with the processing as long as the processing of the overlay operations are performed in the desired way.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

