---

title: Branched additives for polymer toughening
abstract: Toughened polymeric materials and methods of forming toughened polymeric materials are provided herein. In some embodiments, a method of forming toughened polymeric materials may include preparing a branched polymeric additive; mixing the branched polymeric additive with a polymer to form a polymeric mixture, wherein the branched polymeric molecule either mixes and/or bonds with the polymer to reduce mobility in the polymer; and curing the polymeric mixture. In some embodiments, a toughened polymeric material comprises a polymer network; and a branched polymeric molecule bonded to the polymer network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09181432&OS=09181432&RS=09181432
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09181432
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130510
---
This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 645 286 titled Branched Additives for Polymer Toughening and Polymer Networks Containing the Same filed on May 10 2012 the entire contents which are hereby incorporated by reference herein including all attachments and other documents that were incorporated by reference in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 645 286.

Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to polymeric materials and more particularly to toughened polymeric materials and methods of forming toughened polymeric materials

Enhanced toughening of polymeric materials has been a topic of intense research for several decades. Most of the historic effort on toughening polymers has focused on rigid materials. Specifically on the incorporation of additives or fillers to a polymeric formulation in an effort to develop an approach that is generally applicable to multiple materials at a low cost. The impact of the filler depends on the filler size shape loading and dispersion. The impact of the added filler can be enhanced by functionalizing the filler particle to interact more strongly with the host polymer network. However it is difficult to obtain an intimate dispersion of the filler particulate in the polymer necessary to optimize the toughening. This difficulty becomes even more pronounced as the filler size is decreased into the nanoscale regime. In addition these polymeric materials toughened by the addition of filler cannot be implemented into applications that require reduced thicknesses on the order of the filler particle size or more practically several times larger than the filler particle size. In addition the filler particulate is often more dense that the polymer which can lead to particle settling during cure thereby leading to non uniform material properties. Toughening has also been explored in rigid materials through the inclusion of rubbery domains. The rubbery domains are the result of the incorporation of rubber particulate or the phase separation of a rubbery additive to alter fracture mechanics and produce higher toughness. A similar mechanism is attributed for improvements in toughness through the incorporation of hyperbranched polymers that also phase separate from the host polymer. Rubber toughening through phase separation requires a balance of solubilities polymer processing kinetics and phase separation kinetics to obtain rubbery domains dispersed throughout the material without producing phase separation. To mitigate solubility and kinetic issues pre fabricated rubber particulates can be added into the host polymer but they will exhibit the same drawbacks related to particle incorporation discussed previously.

Transitioning the toughening mechanisms developed for rigid polymers to soft polymeric materials is difficult due to changes in the fracture mechanism and the energy associated with the crack propagation. The incorporation of fillers has been shown to enhance the mechanical properties of soft polymeric materials however the same disadvantages identified in rigid materials are still present. In addition the incorporation of filler can lead to undesired decreases in the elasticity and elongation at break.

A method utilized to enhance soft polymeric material toughness is to produce a dual polymer network in a swollen polymer gel. While successful these gels are typically produced through a complicated sequence of reaction conditions. Initially a relatively rigid high cross link density network is formed and then swollen with a solvent to allow for infiltration by a secondary network precursor. The secondary component is then polymerized to produce a second and more flexible low cross link density network within the more rigid system. The two independent networks are entangled to provide a novel toughening mechanism. As the dual network gel is deformed the rigid network is fractured but is held together by the more flexible network. While these dual networks enhance the gel strength and toughness it is not easily scaled or transitioned to other gel systems. Specifically this toughening mechanism has only been reported for hydrogel systems that utilize water as a solvent. The water based hydrogels have limited applicability due to the relatively high volatility of water leading to evaporation and a change in the material properties. In addition the freezing and boiling points respectively fall within the operational temperature of many applications and will have a large impact on the material performance.

Therefore the inventors have provided improved toughened polymeric materials and methods of forming toughened polymeric materials.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to toughened polymeric materials and methods of forming toughened polymeric materials. In some embodiments a method of forming toughened polymeric materials may include preparing a branched polymeric additive mixing the branched polymeric additive with a polymer to form a polymeric mixture wherein the branched polymeric molecule either mixes and or bonds with the polymer to reduce mobility in the polymer and curing the polymeric mixture.

In some embodiments a toughened polymeric material comprises a polymer network and a branched polymeric molecule bonded to the polymer network.

Embodiments of the present invention include toughened polymeric materials and methods of forming toughened polymeric materials. Toughened polymeric materials and methods of forming toughened polymeric materials may include the incorporation of a branched polymeric additive into a polymer network. Embodiments of the present invention may advantageously result in reduced mobility in the polymer network as compared to a linear molecule of the same molecular weight. As a result when the polymeric material is deformed at a rate faster that the mobility time of the branched polymeric additive the additive cannot migrate away from the deformation zone. Thus deformations faster than the characteristic mobility time of the branched polymeric additive will result in an increase in the modulus strength and toughness of the polymer network enabling tenability of the strain rate dependent mechanical response. During deformation as the result of a fracture event the branched polymeric additive will enhance the toughness of the material through one or more of several mechanisms a the decreased mobility of the additive will act as additional chemical cross linking requiring a larger number of covalent bonds to be broken to facilitate further fracture propagation b the inability of the additive to migrate away from the crack tip will produce a larger zone of plastic deformation requiring additional energy to maintain crack propagation and c the larger plastic deformation zone will produce greater energy dissipation to limit crack propagation. The increased energy required to initiate propagate and maintain crack growth due to these mechanisms will lead to enhanced fracture toughness of the polymer network.

The method starts at by preparing a branched polymeric additive. depicts examples of branched polymeric additive structures suitable for use in the present inventive method such as T shaped H shaped pompom shaped barbwire shaped flexible main chain with rigid side chains star shaped comb shaped dumbbell shaped or a hybrid shaped .

In some embodiments the branched polymeric additive is prepared by bonding a linear polymer with a core molecule in the presence of a catalyst. In some embodiments the linear polymer is at least one of a mono vinyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane a polybutadiene a fluorelastomer or a perfluoroelastomer. In some embodiments the core molecule which can be a single molecule or a combination or multiple molecules for example as in a polymer is at least one of tetrakis dimethylsiloxy silane pentaerythritol tetrakis 3 mercaptopropionate 1 3 5 triallyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 6 1H 3H 5H divinyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane 1 2 bis trichlorosilyl ethane 1 2 bis methyldichlorosilyl ethane methyldichlorosilane or allyldichlorosilane. In some embodiments the catalyst is at least one of a platinum catalyst azobisisobutyronitrile triethylamine or 1 5 7 triazabicyclo 4.4.0 dec 5 ene.

Next at the branched polymeric additive is mixed with a polymer to form a polymeric mixture wherein the branched polymeric molecule bonds with the polymer to reduce mobility in the polymer. At the polymeric mixture is cured.

In some embodiments the polymer comprises a polymer network physically cross linked by for example hydrogen bonding metal coordination cross linking ionic interactions or physical associations. Physically associated networks include block co polymers polymer blends thermoplastic elastomers or other phase separating systems. In some embodiments the polymer comprises a polymer network chemically cross linked by covalent bonds between polymers.

The incorporation of branched polymeric structures into a polymer network can be accomplished as an additive separate from the polymer network or directly into the polymer network backbone. While synthetically more complex incorporation of the branched polymeric structures into the polymer network backbone will eliminate the potential for phase separation of a branched polymeric additive separate from the polymer network structure. However the low mobility of the branched polymeric additives will make incorporation into the backbone necessary for only specific material needs. Examples of specific material needs include extended lifetime requirements narrow tolerance in the performance requirements over long lifetimes and materials with interfaces that are sensitive to small quantities of contamination.

The incorporation of branched polymeric additives will advantageously enhance the strength toughness and or produce a strain dependent response regardless of the modulus of the material ranging from conformal soft polymers and polymer gels or biomaterials to structural resins. In particular this invention will address the prohibitively low fracture toughness of soft polymeric materials that has prevented their widespread implementation into a variety of practical applications. Examples of suitable polymers are low modulus network and elastomers such as polydimethylsiloxane or poly styrene b ethylene co butylene b styrene or poly styrene b isoprene b styrene or poly styrene b butadiene b styrene or polybutadiene networks or natural rubber or poly propylene oxide networks solvent swollen polymer gels such as polybutadiene networks swollen with dibutyl pthalate or polypropylene glycol network swollen with dibutyl phthalate or silicone networks swollen with non reactive silicone polymer networks or gel containing unreacted polymer precursors such as silicone networks or polybutadiene networks or poly propylene glycol or biomaterials such as polypeptide gels or poly hydroxyethyl methactylate HEMA or hyaluronic acid based hydrogels or poly N isopropylacrylamide based hydrogels.

Enhancing the toughness of soft materials will facilitate implementation into a wide variety of applications including robotics prosthetics damping biotissue simulants tissue regeneration biomedical implants coatings and sensors. In addition tailoring the strain dependent mechanical response will allow for the polymer material to remain soft and conformable at low strain rates but stiffen upon high deformation rates. This strain dependent mechanical response can be utilized in wearable textiles prosthetics and coatings and provide materials with enhanced blast shock and fracture protection. Incorporation of branched additives in rigid structural polymers will further enhance their fracture toughness leading to implementation into additional applications and the reduction of size and weight.

The incorporation of branched additives will enhance the strength and toughness and or produce a strain dependent response regardless of the modulus of the material ranging from conformal soft polymers and polymer gels or biomaterials G 100 Pa 10 kPa to structural resins G 10 MPa . In particular this approach will address the prohibitively low fracture toughness of soft polymeric materials that has prevented their widespread implementation into a variety of practical applications . Examples of soft polymeric materials include low modulus network and elastomer G 

Enhancements from incorporating branched polymeric additives into a polymer network are the result of the additive architecture requiring no specific interactions and can be utilized in any polymer network. This allows for a single branched polymeric additive to be utilized with a variety of network chemistries with similar solubilities. As a result the branched polymeric additive production can be increased in scale to reduce the end cost of the product. While no specific interactions are required to obtain the aforementioned improvements chemical functionalities that promote interaction of the branched polymeric additive with the polymer network can provide further enhancements. Examples of chemical functionalities that promote interaction include hydrogen bond donors acceptors metal center ligands and the production of covalent bonds.

In one embodiment of forming a toughened polymeric material 25 grams of vinyl terminated PDMS and 25 grams of either the branched PDMS additive described above or a linear PDMS 1 100 g mol were mixed with 800 ppm of a platinum cyclovinylmethylsiloxane complex by mechanical mixing for 15 minutes. A tetrafunctional silane cross linker tetrakis dimethylsiloxy silane was added at 4.0 molar equivalents of hydride to vinyl functionality and stirred for an additional 10 minutes. The samples were degassed by vacuum and cured for 72 hours at 82 Celsius. In most samples the modulus did not appreciably change after 24 hours indicating complete cure.

Tensile testing on the samples was performed using an MTS Synergie load frame at 10 in minute and a 500 N load cell on gel samples in a dogbone geometry. shows the stress strain behavior of gel samples containing 50 of the star branched additive and 50 of a small molecular weight linear chain 1 100 g mol . The stress strain tensile data exhibited a two fold enhancement of the strength stress at break and a three fold enhancement in toughness integral of stress strain curve with the star branched additive relative to the small linear chain solvent . This is believed to be the result of a combination of mixing of the star shaped molecule with the polymer and bonding to the polymer network where trace levels of unreacted functional groups react with the polymer network to form star shaped dangling chain ends.

Tack adhesion testing was performed on an Anton Paar rheometer using a tack probe with a circular cross section 8 mm in diameter. The tack probe was brought into contact with the gel sample under a force of 1.5 N for 120 seconds followed by drawing the tack probe away from the sample at a rate of 1 mm s. shows the comparison of the stress strain tack adhesion data for PDMS gels with either 50 volume of the star branched additive or 50 volume of a small molecule PDMS additive 1 100 g mol . The results were similar to the tensile data where the ultimate force was significantly larger and the work of adhesion toughness exhibited a three fold increase relative to the small linear additive. This is believed to be the result of a combination of mixing of the star shaped molecule with the polymer and bonding to the polymer network where trace levels of unreacted functional groups react with the polymer network to form star shaped dangling chain ends.

Monovinyl terminated PDMS Mn 6100 Da 74.23 g 12.17 mmol tetrakis diethylsiloxy silane 1.0 g 3.042 mmol and platinum cyclovinylmethylsiloxane 58.2 L were combined in a 250 mL round bottom flask fitted with a stirrer bearing and mechanical stirring shaft. The reaction mixture was stirred at 90 C. in a temperature controlled oil bath for 3 days. The molecular weight by size exclusion chromatography SEC did not appreciably change after 24 hours.

The branched structure was synthesized by attaching monovinyl terminated PDMS to a central core Scheme 1 illustrated in . The reaction consisted of a hydrosilylation between a vinyl terminated PDMS linear polymer and a tetra functional silane molecule tetrakis dimethylsiloxy silane in the presence of a platinum catalyst as illustrated in . The reaction was characterized by SEC which suggests nearly complete attachment of the monovinyl terminated PDMS to the tetra functional silane see . illustrates the SEC analysis of reaction showing shift of star polymer to higher molecular weight relative to linear peak with uniform peak shape and nearly 4 fold increase in molecular weight right . The reaction was scaled up to 50 g for incorporation into polymer gels.

25 g vinyl terminated PDMS v PDMS and 25 g of either the branched PDMS additive or a linear PDMS 1 100 g mol were mixed with 800 ppm of a platinum cyclovinylmethylsiloxane complex by mechanical mixing for 15 min. A tetrafunctional silane cross linker tetrakis dimethylsiloxy silane was added at 4.0 molar equivalents of hydride to vinyl functionality and stirred for an additional 10 min. The samples were degassed by vacuum and cured for 72 h at 82 C. In most samples the modulus did not appreciably change after 24 h indicating complete cure.

Tensile testing was performed using an MTS Synergie load frame at 10 in min and a 500 N load cell on gel samples in a dogbone geometry. shows the stress strain behavior of gel samples containing 50 of the star branched additive and 50 of a small molecular weight linear chain 1 100 g mol . The stress strain tensile data exhibited a two fold enhancement of the strength stress at break and a three fold enhancement in toughness integral of stress strain curve with the star shaped additive relative to the small linear solvent.

Tack adhesion testing was performed on an Anton Paar rheometer using a tack probe with a circular cross section 8 mm in diameter. The tack probe was brought into contact with the gel sample under a force of 1.5 N for 120 sec followed by drawing the tack probe away from the sample at a rate of 1 mm s. The results were similar to the tensile data where the ultimate force was significantly larger and the work of adhesion toughness exhibited a three fold increase relative to the small linear additive. illustrates the comparison of the stress strain tack adhesion data for PDMS gels with either 50 vol of the star branched additive or 50 vol of a small molecule PDMS additive 1 100 g mol . Similar to the tensile testing the adhesive strength maximum stress and toughness work of adhesion integral of the stress strain curve are significantly improved for the gel containing the star branched solvent when compared to a sample containing the small molecule additive.

As shown in the preceding examples the mechanical properties of polymeric networks can be significantly modified through the incorporation of additives with topological constraints and or entanglements. To identify the most promising of the substantial number of potential additives we are developing computational models. Direct atomistic modeling of the mechanical response of these systems is still unobtainable because of the slow dynamics and limited size of atomistic models. Coarse graining models are being utilized to bridge this vast temporal and spatial scale. Conventional coarse graining methods may utilize soft repulsive interaction potentials between particles made of a large number of polymer monomers. Although the soft potential has substantial benefits allowing for long time simulations it also leads to unphysical crossing of the polymer chains making simulation of mechanical properties unrealistic. We addressed this issue by introducing a repulsive potential between bonds that prevents unphysical chain crossing. The models of polymer gel incorporating polymer network and a solvent composed of polymers exhibiting various shapes and lengths were built by applying recent ARL developed coarse graining strategy. We have applied several coarse grain techniques using both hard and soft repulsive potentials. In the latter care a newly developed bond potential was also implemented. The polymer models were subjected to Molecular Dynamics simulations using LAMMPS program and the stress strain relations were calculated with varying strain rates see . A fracture model of polymer networks dependent on the network deformation was introduced and applied to study toughness of polymeric gels. The computational modeling supports the observed improvements through the addition of branched and entangled solvent. In addition the computational modeling suggests the most significant benefit from a molecular barbed wire architecture where an entangled linear polymer has several short rigid side chains resulting in a dramatic reduction in solvent mobility.

Monoamino terminated polystyrene can be synthesized using the methods of Hegewald et alor Pourjavadi et alusing the so called initiator method and selective deprotection strategies during atom transfer radical polymerization ATRP . The resulting amino terminated polystyrene can then be mixed with commercially available maleic anhydride functionalized polybutadiene Cray Valley Exton Pa. USA in tetrahydrofuran a good solvent for both polymers. Upon mixing the amine and maleic anhydride functionalities will spontaneously reactto form a molecular barb wire structure composed of a long polybutadiene chain with several shorter polystyrene chains attached at various points. The length of the polystyrene chains can be controlled by the ATRP monomer to initiator ratio and the maleic anhydride functionalized polybutadiene is available in multiple functional densities allowing for control over the rigid chain length and density. The same strategy can be utilized with commercially available hydroxyl terminated polystyrene e.g. Polymer Source Montreal Quebec Canada American Custom Chemicals Corporation San Diego Calif. USA etc. that will also react with the maleic anhydride functionalities on the polybutadiene chain. This same general scheme can be utilized with other commercially available end functionalized rigid polymers including hydroxyl terminated polycarbonates poly methacrylates polyphenylenes poly vinyl pyridine s polythiophenes or poly vinyl pyrolidone s and amine functional polymethacrylates poly vinyl pyridine s or polycarbonates.

One potential challenge associated with molecular barbed wire solvent is that incorporation of rigid pendant chains with chemistry different than the flexible backbone may lead to phase separation. A solution to this problem is to cap the rigid pendant groups with an end chemistry that enhances the solvent solubility in the resin matrix. Producing the mono amine terminated polystyrene by ATRP provides the opportunity for the opposite end to maintain a halide functionality examples include chlorine and bromine functionalization . These end groups remain active after reaction between the amine of the polystyrene and the maleic anhydride of the polybutadiene. As a result that halide functionality can be used to initiate ATRP of a second polymer after the polystyrene chains are attached to the polybutadiene.

Similar to Example B the halide functionality present on the end opposite the amine could be used to initiate polymerization of a second polymer by ATRP prior to reaction with the polybutadiene resulting in a mono amino terminated copolymer. The amino terminated copolymer could subsequently be coupled to the maleic anhydride functionalized polybutadiene.

Similar to example B the maintained halide functionality after attachment of the polystyrene chains to the polybutadiene could be reacted with a thiol terminated polymer to provide covalent attachment in the absence of a catalyst. Thiol terminated polymer chains can readily be produced using a reversible addition fragmentation chain transfer RAFT polymerization. A similar method could be utilized with commercially available thiol terminated polystyrenes polyacrylates poly vinyl pyridine s or poly vinyl pyrrolidone s.

Reversible Addition Fragmentation Chain Transfer RAFT polymerization has been demonstrated for a variety of polymers including styrene acrylates and methacrylates.After RAFT polymerization the polymer chains are often end functionalized with a thiol. The thiol functionality enables covalent coupling with a maleic anhydride group or double bonds e.g. polymers like isoprene and butadiene without the need for an added catalyst. A similar method could be utilized with commercially available thiol terminated polystyrenes polyacrylates poly vinyl pyridine s or poly vinyl pyrrolidone s.

Polydimethylsiloxane is commercially available with reactive chemical functionalities randomly distributed along the backbone in varying functional densities. The available chemistries include vinyl amino and thiol mercapto groups. Vinyl and thiol groups can provide thiol ene reaction sites with thiol groups and alkenes respectively. The amino groups provide a site for reaction with epoxy or maleic anhydride functionalized chains. None of these reactions requires a catalyst to proceed. A similar method could be utilized with commercially available thiol terminated polystyrenes polyacrylates poly vinyl pyridine s or poly vinyl pyrrolidone s and vinyl terminated polystyrene polyacrylates and polythiophenes.

Polydimethylsiloxane is commercially available with chloromethylphenethyl groups distributed along the polymer backbone. The halide functionalization provides an initiation site for ATRP and RAFT polymerization to grow well controlled polymer chains from the backbone.

An extension of Example G is to use the reactive end group after growth of the rigid polymer chain to synthesize a second polymer chain.

Similar to example F a copolymer can be synthesize using RAFT polymerization to produce a thiol functional group at the end of the rigid polymer section. The thiol group could then be used to bind the copolymer to a vinyl functionalized PDMS chain.

Poly styrene b butadiene b styrene SBS 8508 Vector Polymers Houston Tex. US tetrahydrofuran Aldrich and Azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN Aldrich were all used as received. Acrylic acid monomer Aldrich was passed through an inhibitor removal column prior to use.

6 g of SBS 20 g of acrylic acid and 0.4 g AIBN were weighed into a 500 ml flask along with 250 ml of THF. The head space was purged with nitrogen for 30 min followed by heating the solution under reflux conditions for 24 hrs under a nitrogen flow. The solution was rotovapped to concentrate the solution down to 100 mL. The polymer is then precipitated into Methanol. The precipitate is collected and dried in a vacuum oven at 40 C. The acrylic acid molecular weight can be controlled using the ratio of AIBN and acrylic acid in the initial solution.

Using the constant polystyrene signal above 6 ppm in the NMR spectra we were able to obtain quantitative information on the amount of grafted acrylic acid. This initial data demonstrates that polyacrylic acid has been incorporated onto the polybutadiene chain but requires further characterization to determine the length of the individual chains.

Dodecane thiol acetone sodium hydroxide carbon disulfide 2 bromo propionic acid 10 HCl Magnesium Sulfate and Hexanes were used as received from Aldrich. Poly styrene b butadiene b styrene SBS 8508 Vector Polymers Houston Tex. US . Tert butyl acrylate monomer Aldrich was passed through an inhibitor removal column prior to use.

3.2 g of sodium hydroxide are dissolved into 30 mL of water along with 300 mL of acetone and 14.78 g of dodecane thiol. The solution is placed in an ice bath for 20 min to obtain thermal equilibrium. Slowly add 7.56 mL of carbon disulfide dropwise over 10 min. Stir for 20 min. Add 8.6 mL of 2 bromo propionic acid and stir overnight. After reaction completion add 350 mL of 10 hydrochloric acid and stir for 15 20 min to obtain a yellow precipitate. Filter the precipitate and wash with distilled water. Dissolve the washed precipitate in ethyl acetate and stir with magnesium sulfate to remove water and filter out magnesium sulfate. Recrystallize from hexanes to obtain the desired product.

2 g of tert butyl acrylate 0.219 g of the synthesized RAFT chain transfer agent and 0.010 g azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN were mixed in 10 mL of tetrahydrofuran THF . The solution was purged with nitrogen for 15 min followed by reflux for 3 h. The reaction solution was placed under vacuum to remove the tetrahydrofuran. The solid product was dissolved in 5 mL ethanol and precipitated in distilled water. The precipitate was then dried overnight at 40 deg C. under vacuum.

5 g of poly tert butyl acrylate dissolved in 50 mL of methanol and 2.5 g of sodium borohydride were added dropwise over 10 min. The solution was purged with nitrogen for 20 min and stirred overnight. The solution was concentrated under vacuum to 10 mL and then precipitated into distilled water. The precipitate was filtered washed with 10 hydrochloric acid followed by washing with water before drying the product at 40 deg C. under vacuum overnight.

Grafting of thiol functionalized poly tert butyl acrylate onto the Butadiene Portion of the Copolymer

0.5 g poly styrene b butadiene b styrene 2.365 g thiol functionalized poly tert butyl acrylate and 0.001 g AIBN were dissolved in 50 mL of THF. The solution was purged with nitrogen for 20 min before increasing the temperature to reflux for 24 h under a nitrogen flow. The solution was concentration under vacuum precipitated in methanol filtered and dried at 40 deg C. under vacuum overnight.

Comparison of the NMR spectra of the final product to that of the initial SBS demonstrates a significant increase in peak area around 1.5 and 2.2 ppm. These increased peaks intensities are consistent with the grafting of poly tert butyl acrylate . provides NMR spectra of SBS and the poly tert butyl acrylate grafted SBS demonstrating changes to the NMR spectra supporting grafting of the poly tert butyl acrylate on the polybutadiene portion of SBS.

Other advantages benefits and details of the present invention are described in Army Research Laboratory Technical Report ARL TR 6338 titled Branched Polymers for Enhancing Polymer Gel Strength and Toughness Final Report by Robert H. Lambeth et al. February 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof.

