---

title: Systems and methods for analyzing performance of an entity
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for analyzing entity performance. In accordance with one implementation, a method is provided that includes receiving data associated with a geographic region and transforming the received data into an object model. The method also includes analyzing the object model to associate the received data with a plurality of entities and to associate the received data with a plurality of sub-geographic regions of the geographic region. The method also includes applying a prediction model to the plurality of sub-geographic regions using the object model to determine a predicted performance for at least one entity of the plurality of entities. Further, the method includes determining actual performance for the at least one entity and providing a user interface that includes information associated with the predicted performance, the actual performance, or a combination of the predicted performance and the actual performance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08938686&OS=08938686&RS=08938686
owner: Palantir Technologies Inc.
number: 08938686
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131003
---
The amount of information being processed and stored is rapidly increasing as technology advances present an ever increasing ability to generate and store data. This data is commonly stored in computer based systems in structured data stores. For example one common type of data store is a so called flat file such as a spreadsheet plain text document or XML document. Another common type of data store is a relational database comprising one or more tables. Other examples of data stores that comprise structured data include without limitation files systems object collections record collections arrays hierarchical trees linked lists stacks and combinations thereof.

Numerous organizations including industry retail and government entities recognize that important information and decisions can be drawn if massive data sets can be analyzed to identify patterns of behavior. Collecting and classifying large sets of data in an appropriate manner allows these entities to more quickly and efficiently identify these patterns thereby allowing them to make more informed decisions.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments the examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Whenever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Data fusion system comprises a definition component and a translation component both implemented by one or more processors of one or more computing devices or systems executing hardware and or software based logic for providing various functionality and features of the present disclosure as described herein. As will be appreciated from the present disclosure data fusion system can comprise fewer or additional components that provide the various functionalities and features described herein. Moreover the number and arrangement of the components of data fusion system responsible for providing the various functionalities and features described herein can further vary from embodiment to embodiment.

Definition component generates and or modifies ontology and a schema map . Exemplary embodiments for defining an ontology such as ontology are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 962 495 the 495 patent issued on Jun. 14 2011 the entire contents of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Consistent with certain embodiments disclosed in the 495 patent a dynamic ontology may be used to create a database. To create a database ontology one or more object types may be defined where each object type includes one or more properties. The attributes of object types or property types of the ontology can be edited or modified at any time. And for each property type at least one parser definition may be created. The attributes of a parser definition can be edited or modified at any time.

In some embodiments each property type is declared to be representative of one or more object types. A property type is representative of an object type when the property type is intuitively associated with the object type. In some embodiments each property type has one or more components and a base type. In some embodiments a property type can comprise a string a date a number or a composite type consisting of two or more string date or number elements. Thus property types are extensible and can represent complex data structures. Further a parser definition can reference a component of a complex property type as a unit or token.

An example of a property having multiple components is an Address property having a City component and a State component. An example of raw input data is Los Angeles Calif. An example parser definition specifies an association of imported input data to object property components as follows CITY STATE Address State Address City. In some embodiments the association CITY STATE is defined in a parser definition using regular expression symbology. The association CITY STATE indicates that a city string followed by a state string and separated by a comma comprises valid input data for a property of type Address. In contrast input data of Los Angeles Calif. would not be valid for the specified parser definition but a user could create a second parser definition that does match input data of Los Angeles Calif. The definition Address City Address State specifies that matching input data values map to components named City and State of the Address property. As a result parsing the input data using the parser definition results in assigning the value Los Angeles to the Address City component of the Address property and the value CA to the Address State component of the Address property.

According to some embodiments schema map can define how various elements of schemas for data sources map to various elements of ontology . Definition component receives calculates extracts or otherwise identifies schemas for data sources . Schemas define the structure of data sources for example the names and other characteristics of tables files columns fields properties and so forth. Definition component furthermore optionally identifies sample data from data sources . Definition component can further identify object type relationship and property definitions from ontology if any already exist. Definition component can further identify pre existing mappings from schema map if such mappings exist.

Based on the identified information definition component can generate a graphical user interface . Graphical user interface can be presented to users of a computing device via any suitable output mechanism e.g. a display screen an image projection etc. and can further accept input from users of the computing device via any suitable input mechanism e.g. a keyboard a mouse a touch screen interface etc. . Graphical user interface features a visual workspace that visually depicts representations of the elements of ontology for which mappings are defined in schema map .

In some embodiments transformation component can be invoked after schema map and ontology have been defined or redefined. Transformation component identifies schema map and ontology . Transformation component further reads data sources and identifies schemas for data sources . For each element of ontology described in schema map transformation component iterates through some or all of the data items of data sources generating elements of object model in the manner specified by schema map . In some embodiments transformation component can store a representation of each generated element of object model in a database . In some embodiments transformation component is further configured to synchronize changes in object model back to data sources .

Data sources can be one or more sources of data including without limitation spreadsheet files databases email folders document collections media collections contact directories and so forth. Data sources can include data structures stored persistently in non volatile memory. Data sources can also or alternatively include temporary data structures generated from underlying data sources via data extraction components such as a result set returned from a database server executing an database query.

Schema map ontology and schemas can be stored in any suitable structures such as XML files database tables and so forth. In some embodiments ontology is maintained persistently. Schema map can or cannot be maintained persistently depending on whether the transformation process is perpetual or a one time event. Schemas need not be maintained in persistent memory but can be cached for optimization.

Object model comprises collections of elements such as typed objects properties and relationships. The collections can be structured in any suitable manner. In some embodiments a database stores the elements of object model or representations thereof. In some embodiments the elements of object model are stored within database in a different underlying format such as in a series of object property and relationship tables in a relational database.

According to some embodiments the functionalities techniques and components described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices can be hard wired to perform the techniques or can include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or can include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices can also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices can be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

In embodiments described herein data fusion system can provide an entity such as a retail merchant to analyze information to identify behaviors to allow that entity to make more informed decisions. Such information can allow retail entities such as a retail merchant to determine where to place their retail locations. Entities having more than one location e.g. a merchant with a chain store or a franchise model typically evaluate the performance of their locations and may adjust their business models or work flows when the locations under perform. Typically entities evaluate the performance of their locations based on period to period metrics. For example an entity can evaluate a location s performance by comparing the current month s sales to the previous month s sales. In addition entitles can evaluate each of its locations performance using comparative analysis. For example an entity might compare the sales at a first location with the sales at a second location. As entities generally measure the performance of its locations based on its own transaction data e.g. the entity s sales across some or all of its locations current methods of measuring performance do not consider sales made by competitors or demographic features of the areas of the entity s locations.

Since current performance evaluation methods do not consider the sales of competitors or the demographic features of the region of the entity location measured performance may not represent the true performance of an entity. For instance although an entity location in a low consumer spend capacity area might have less sales than an entity location in a high consumer spend capacity area it may be performing better than what could be expected for that area in light of for example the low number of consumers residing in the area or the low income of the area. Entity location performance can be adversely impacted by the close proximity of another location of the entity but the entity location can be performing better than expected given the competition from the other entity location. Conversely while an entity location in a dense high income area might have the highest sales of all entity locations it can be under performing because for instance consumer spend capacity is high and the entity location could generate more sales.

Consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure the performance of entities can be analyzed based on how the entity is expected to perform given the location of the entity. For a given entity location the disclosed embodiments may be implemented to consider for example consumer demographic features of the entity location s area and the proximity of competitors to the entity location including the proximity of other close by entity locations . Based on these and or similar factors a prediction of the amount of sales or number transactions for an entity location can be determined and compared to the actual amount of sales or transactions for the entity location to determine the performance of the entity location. In some embodiments the entity can be a merchant. For purposes of illustration exemplary embodiments for analyzing entity performance are described herein with reference to merchants. However the exemplary embodiments and techniques described herein may be applied to other types of entities e.g. service providers governmental agencies etc. within the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

One or more components of system can be computing systems configured to analyze merchant performance. As further described herein components of system can include one or more computing devices e.g. computer s server s etc. memory storing data and or software instructions e.g. database s memory devices etc. and other known computing components. In some embodiments the one or more computing devices are configured to execute software or a set of programmable instructions stored on one or more memory devices to perform one or more operations consistent with the disclosed embodiments. Components of system can be configured to communicate with one or more other components of system including merchant analysis system one or more financial services systems one or more geographic data systems one or more merchant management systems and one or more consumer data systems . In certain aspects users can operate one or more components of system . The one or more users can be employees of or associated with the entity corresponding to the respective component s e.g. someone authorized to use the underlying computing systems or otherwise act on behalf of the entity .

Merchant analysis system can be a computing system configured to analyze merchant performance. For example merchant analysis system can be a computer system configured to execute software or a set of programmable instructions that collect or receive financial transaction data consumer data and merchant data and process it to determine the predicted spend amounts for a merchant and determine the actual spend amounts for the merchant. Merchant analysis system can be configured in some embodiments to utilize include or be a data fusion system see e.g. to transform data from various data sources such as financial services systems geographic data systems merchant management systems and consumer data systems for processing. In some embodiments merchant analysis system can be implemented using a computer system as shown in and described below.

Merchant analysis system can include one or more computing devices e.g. server s memory storing data and or software instructions e.g. database s memory devices etc. and other known computing components. According to some embodiments merchant analysis system can include one or more networked computers that execute processing in parallel or use a distributed computing architecture. Merchant analysis system can be configured to communicate with one or more components of system and it can be configured to provide analysis of merchants via an interface s accessible by users over a network e.g. the Internet . For example merchant analysis system can include a web server that hosts a web page accessible through network by merchant management systems . In another embodiment merchant analysis system can include an application server configured to provide data to one or more client applications executing on computing systems connected to merchant analysis system via network .

In some embodiments merchant analysis system can be configured to determine an expected spend amount for a merchant or merchant location by processing and analyzing data collected from one or more components of system . For example merchant analysis system can determine that Big Box Merchant store located at 123 Main St in Burbank Calif. should be generating 50 000 of sales per month. The merchant analysis system can also be configured to determine the actual sales for a merchant or specific merchant location by processing and analyzing data collected from one or more components of system . For example merchant analysis system can determine that the Big Box Merchant store located at 123 Main St in Burbank Calif. is actually generating 60 000 of sales per month. Merchant analysis system can provide an analysis of a merchant or merchant location s performance based on the predicted sales and the actual sales for the merchant or merchant location. For example for the Big Box Merchant store located at 123 Main St. Burbank Calif. the merchant analysis system can provide an analysis that the store is performing above expectations. Exemplary processes that can be used by merchant analysis system are described below with respect to .

Merchant analysis system can in some embodiments generate a user interface communicating data related to one or more merchants or merchant locations. For example in some embodiments merchant analysis system includes a web server that generates HTML code or scripts capable of generating HTML code that can be displayed in a web browser executing on computing device. Merchant analysis system can also execute an application server that provides user interface objects to a client application executing on a computing device or it can provide data that is capable of being displayed in a user interface in a client application executing on a computing device. In some embodiments merchant analysis system can generate user interfaces that can be displayed within another user interface. For example merchant analysis system can generate a user interface for display within a parent user interface that is part of a word processing application a presentation development application a web browser or an illustration application among others. As used herein the term generating in reference to a user interface can include generating the code that when executed displays information e.g. HTML or providing commands and or data to a set of instructions that when executed render a user interface capable of being shown on a display connected to a computing device. In some embodiments the user interface can include a map indications of the merchant locations on a map and indications of the sales or transactions associated with the merchant locations. Examples of some although not all user interfaces that can be generated by merchant analysis system are described below with respect to .

Referring again to financial services system can be a computing system associated with a financial service provider such as a bank credit card issuer credit bureau credit agency or other entity that generates provides manages and or maintains financial service accounts for one or more users. Financial services system can generate maintain store provide and or process financial data associated with one or more financial service accounts. Financial data can include for example financial service account data such as financial service account identification data account balance available credit existing fees reward points user profile information and financial service account transaction data such as transaction dates transaction amounts transaction types and location of transaction. Financial services system can include infrastructure and components that are configured to generate and or provide financial service accounts such as credit card accounts checking accounts savings account debit card accounts loyalty or reward programs lines of credit and the like.

Geographic data systems can include one or more computing devices configured to provide geographic data to other computing systems in system such as merchant analysis system . For example geographic data systems can provide geodetic coordinates when provided with a street address of vice versa. In some embodiments geographic data systems exposes an application programming interface API including one or more methods or functions that can be called remotely over a network such as network . According to some embodiments geographic data systems can provide information concerning routes between two geographic points. For example merchant analysis system can provide two addresses and geographic data systems can provide in response the aerial distance between the two addresses the distance between the two addresses using roads and or a suggested route between the two addresses and the route s distance.

According to some embodiments geographic data systems can also provide map data to merchant analysis system and or other components of system . The map data can include for example satellite or overhead images of a geographic region or a graphic representing a geographic region. The map data can also include points of interest such as landmarks malls shopping centers schools or popular restaurants or retailers for example.

Merchant management systems can be one or more computing devices configured to perform one or more operations consistent with disclosed embodiments. For example merchant management systems can be a desktop computer a laptop a server a mobile device e.g. tablet smart phone etc. or any other type of computing device configured to request merchant analysis from merchant analysis system . According to some embodiments merchant management systems can comprise a network enabled computing device operably connected to one or more other presentation devices which can themselves constitute a computing system. For example merchant management systems can be connected to a mobile device telephone laptop tablet or other computing device.

Merchant management systems can include one or more processors configured to execute software instructions stored in memory. Merchant management systems can include software or a set of programmable instructions that when executed by a processor performs known Internet related communication and content presentation processes. For example merchant management systems can execute software or a set of instructions that generates and displays interfaces and or content on a presentation device included in or connected to merchant management systems . In some embodiments merchant management systems can be a mobile device that executes mobile device applications and or mobile device communication software that allows merchant management systems to communicate with components of system over network . The disclosed embodiments are not limited to any particular configuration of merchant management systems .

Merchant management systems can be one or more computing systems associated with a merchant that provides products e.g. goods and or services such as a restaurant e.g. Outback Steakhouse Burger King etc. retailer e.g. Amazon.com Target etc. grocery store mall shopping center service provider e.g. utility company insurance company financial service provider automobile repair services movie theater etc. non profit organization ACLU . AARP etc. or any other type of entity that provides goods services and or information that consumers i.e. end users or other business entities can purchase consume use etc. For ease of discussion the exemplary embodiments presented herein relate to purchase transactions involving goods from retail merchant systems. Merchant management systems however is not limited to systems associated with retail merchants that conduct business in any particular industry or field.

Merchant management systems can be associated with computer systems installed and used at a merchant brick and mortar locations where a consumer can physically visit and purchase goods and services. Such locations can include computing devices that perform financial service transactions with consumers e.g. Point of Sale POS terminal s kiosks etc. . Merchant management systems can also include back and or front end computing components that store data and execute software or a set of instructions to perform operations consistent with disclosed embodiments such as computers that are operated by employees of the merchant e.g. back office systems etc. . Merchant management systems can also be associated with a merchant that provides goods and or service via known online or e commerce types of solutions. For example such a merchant can sell products via a website using known online or e commerce systems and solutions to market sell and process online transactions. Merchant management systems can include one or more servers that are configured to execute stored software or a set of instructions to perform operations associated with a merchant including one or more processes associated with processing purchase transactions generating transaction data generating product data e.g. SKU data relating to purchase transactions for example.

Consumer data systems can include one or more computing devices configured to provide demographic data regarding consumers. For example consumer data systems can provide information regarding the name address gender income level age email address or other information about consumers. Consumer data systems can include public computing systems such as computing systems affiliated with the U.S. Bureau of the Census the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics or FedStats or it can include private computing systems such as computing systems affiliated with financial institutions credit bureaus social media sites marketing services or some other organization that collects and provides demographic data.

Network can be any type of network or combination of networks configured to provide electronic communications between components of system . For example network can be any type of network including infrastructure that provides communications exchanges information and or facilitates the exchange of information such as the Internet a Local Area Network or other suitable connection s that enables the sending and receiving of information between the components of system . Network may also comprise any combination of wired and wireless networks. In other embodiments one or more components of system can communicate directly through a dedicated communication link s such as links between merchant analysis system financial services system geographic data systems merchant management systems and consumer data systems .

As noted above merchant analysis system can include a data fusion system e.g. data fusion system for organizing data received from one or more of the components of system .

By way of example is a block diagram of an exemplary computer system consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure. The components of system such as merchant analysis system financial service systems geographic data systems merchant management systems and consumer data systems may include the architecture based on or similar to that of computer system .

As illustrated in computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor can be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also can be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system can be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display or touch screen for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . The input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis for example x and a second axis for example y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system can implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to some embodiments the operations functionalities and techniques disclosed herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that stores data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media can comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but can be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media can be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions can initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface can be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface can be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link can provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server can transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface . The received code can be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

As described above with respect to merchant analysis system can perform one or more processes for analyzing the performance of merchants based on predicted sales and actual sales. are flowcharts illustrating exemplary processes for analyzing data and merchant performance consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure. While illustrate embodiments processes using particular methodologies or techniques other methodologies or techniques known in the art can be substituted without detracting from the spirit and scope of these embodiments. Also while the description that follows describes the processes of as performed by merchant analysis system in some embodiments another component of system or some sub system of the components of system not shown can perform part or all of these processes.

In some embodiments a merchant analysis system e.g. merchant analysis system receives financial transaction data consumer data and merchant data from one or more financial services systems e.g. financial services systems merchant management systems e.g. merchant management systems and or consumer data systems e.g. consumer data systems step . The merchant analysis system can receive the data after it requests it via an API or it can receive the data automatically via a network e.g. network . It will be appreciated that additional methods for data transfer between a merchant analysis system and data systems may be implemented without changing the scope and sprit of the disclosed embodiments.

In some embodiments the financial services systems the merchant management systems and the consumer data systems can provide the data to the merchant analysis system in a batch format on a periodic basis such as daily weekly or monthly. The financial transaction data consumer data and merchant data can be sent as a data stream text file serialized object or any other conventional method for transmitting data between computing systems.

In some embodiments the financial transaction data can reflect purchase transactions at one or more merchants offering goods and or services and it can include information regarding one or more consumer transactions. A consumer transaction can include among other things the date and time for the transaction the purchase amount for the transaction a unique consumer identifier associated with the transaction a description of the merchant for the transaction a category code associated with the merchant e.g. retail goods medical services dining and geographic indicator e.g. postal code street address GPS coordinates etc. . As financial transaction data can originate from several financial services systems each providing different information for each consumer transaction the information contained in the spending transaction data originating from a first financial data system can be different from the information contained in spending transaction data originating from a second financial data system. Accordingly in some embodiments the merchant analysis system can translate the data received from the financial services system. For example the merchant analysis system can import the received data into an object model according to an ontology using a transformation component e.g. transformation component .

Consumer transactions reflected in the received financial transaction data can include several types of consumer transactions. For example the consumer transactions can correspond to credit card purchases or refunds debit card purchases or refunds eChecks electronic wallet transactions wire transfers etc. The consumer transactions can also include transactions associated with reward or loyalty programs. For example the consumer transactions can include the number of loyalty points and their cash equivalent used to earn discounts or receive free dining. Financial transaction data received from one financial data system can include more than one type of consumer transaction type. For example spending transaction data received from a bank can include debit card credit card and eCheck consumer transactions.

In some embodiments the consumer data can include demographic information regarding one or more consumers. For example the consumer data can include information about consumers income gender age employment status home ownership status or ethnicity among others. In some embodiments the consumer data can be associated with a geographic region. For example the consumer data can be associated with a zip code neighborhood or street address. In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can receive the consumer data with respect to particular individuals. For example the consumer data can be a data set where each record of the dataset corresponds to an individual consumer.

The merchant analysis system can also receive merchant data. In some embodiments the merchant analysis system receives merchant data from the merchant management system. The merchant data can include information about a merchant. For example the merchant data can include the address of a merchant s retail locations and attributes of the merchant s retail locations such as square footage product lines typical price points number of parking spaces whether the retail location is in a mall or shopping center or other features that can make the merchant location attractive or unattractive to consumers. According to some embodiments the merchant data can include information about the merchant s competitors. For example the merchant data can include the names of the competitors the locations of the competitors retail locations and attributes of the merchant s competitor s retail locations such as square footage product lines typical price points number of parking spaces whether the retail location is in a mall or shopping center or other features that can make the competitor location attractive or unattractive to consumers.

After the merchant analysis system receives the financial transaction data the consumer data and the merchant data the merchant analysis system can analyze it step . In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can organize the received data using an object model e.g. object model described above with respect to for allowing users to better analyze the data.

The analyzing of the received data in step can be implemented according to which is a flowchart representing an exemplary process for analyzing received data consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure. While the flowchart of discloses the following steps in a particular order it will be appreciated that at least some of the steps can be moved modified or deleted where appropriate consistent with the teachings of the present disclosure. For example in some embodiments while performing analyze received data process the merchant analysis system can determine consumers for financial data step before determining merchants for the financial data step or it can map the financial transaction data to geohash regions step before determining merchants or consumers associated with the financial data steps .

In some embodiments while performing analyze received data process the merchant analysis system can reorganize the received data using an object model e.g. object model to better utilize that data. For example the merchant analysis system can use a schema map a transformation component and an ontology e.g. schema map transformation component and ontology to translate date received from the financial services systems or the merchant management systems into an object model e.g. object model for later analysis. In some embodiments a different data translation method may be implemented to analyze the received data e.g. a data translation method that does not use an object model schema map transformation component or ontology .

One non limiting example of an object that could be included in the object model is a merchant object. The merchant object can include one or more properties describing a merchant and an instance of that object can have values assigned to the properties corresponding with the data received from one or more data sources. For example the merchant object can have properties such as name location street address zip code merchant ID merchandise category transaction price range among others and the values of the properties can be set to John s Gas Irvine Calif. 123 Main St. 92614 123456 fuel food and 0 100 respectively. Another non limiting example of an object that could be included in the object model is a location object. A location object in some embodiments can include properties related to the demographic features of the location. For example the location object can have properties such as city state zip code average age of resident average income of resident among others and the values of the properties can be set to Irvine CA 92614 36 and 75 000 respectively. Another non limiting example of an object that can be included in the object model is a purchase object. A purchase object in some embodiments can include properties related to purchases such as the amount of the purchase the time of purchase the nature of the good purchases or the information regarding the purchaser. The purchase object can be used for example to determine features such as the seasonality of purchases e.g. the time period when purchases are typically made on average or customer clusters that are making the purchases e.g. businessperson home owner . One example of a customer cluster can include a business person cluster.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can analyze received data process by determining merchants for the received financial data step . The financial transaction data typically will not come with an identifier for the merchant where the financial transaction data occurred. For example a typical consumer transaction can include the amount of the transaction a merchant category code e.g. retail restaurant automotive a description of the merchant e.g. John s Gas Irvine Calif. time and date of the transaction and other information associated with the transaction but not specifically identifying the merchant where the transaction occurred e.g. using a unique merchant identification number . As a result the merchant analysis system can perform a matching process to match the consumer transactions of the financial transaction data with one or more merchant of which the merchant analysis system has knowledge.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can have access to data associated with and describing a plurality of known merchants. The data can be received by the merchant analysis system e.g. at step from merchant management systems the financial services systems or it can be part of the schemas used to create the object model before merchant analysis system performs analyze received data process . The data describing the known merchants can include the name and address of the payee the payee category code of the payee e.g. retail restaurant etc. typical spending ranges or other data. As most of the consumer transactions of the financial transaction data include at least a category code and a postal code after the merchant analysis system performs the merchant identification process it can filter the possible known merchants to match to the financial transaction data based on category code and postal code. For example after the merchant analysis system receives financial transaction data indicating that a consumer transaction took place at a retail merchant in postal code 92603 it can access the data of known merchants and attempt to match only those merchants that are retail merchants in postal code 92603 with the consumer transaction. If only one merchant is known with the category code and the postal code then the merchant analysis system can match the consumer transaction with that merchant. If more than one merchant is known for that category code and postal code the merchant analysis system can compare the remainder of the parameters of the consumer transaction e.g. description transaction amount to the parameters of known merchants. For example if two retail merchants in postal code 92603 are known the merchant analysis system can compare the description of the consumer transaction to the descriptions of each merchant. In some embodiments transaction amount can also be used to determine the merchant associated with a consumer transaction of the financial transaction data. For example if one merchant in 92603 typically has transactions that average in orders of magnitude of 10 and a second merchant in 92603 has transactions that average in orders of magnitude of 100 the merchant analysis system can match a transaction of 23 to the first merchant and not the second.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can also match consumer transactions of the financial transaction data with one or more consumers step . In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can associate a consumer transaction with an individual consumer. For example the merchant analysis system can match a consumer transaction to a consumer based on the name address phone number or account number associated with the consumer transaction. In some embodiments the financial transaction data can include a consumer identifier that has been generated by the system providing the financial transaction data for the purposes of consumer identification by merchant analysis system. For example the financial services systems can include with each consumer transaction a unique anonymous consumer identifier that allows the merchant analysis system to match consumer transactions coming from the same consumer without providing the merchant analysis system with actual data to specifically identify the consumer. For example a consumer transaction made by John Smith 123 Main St Newport Beach Calif. 92660 Account Number 4123 4444 5555 6666 phone number 949 555 1122 can be provided to merchant analysis system with a consumer identification number of 98765. When John Smith makes additional purchases each of his consumer transactions will be received by the merchant analysis system with consumer identification number 98765. In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can assign a unique consumer identification number when it imports the financial transaction data into the object model.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can map the financial data transaction to geohash regions step . A geohash region or geohash bucket is a region associated with a latitude longitude hierarchal geocode system that subdivides regions of the Earth into grid shaped buckets. The level of granularity of geohash regions can vary depending on the length of the geohash code corresponding to that region. For example a geohash code that is one bit in length corresponds to a geohash region of roughly 20 million square kilometers and a geohash code that is six bits in length corresponds to a geohash region of roughly 1.2 square kilometers. In some embodiments a geohash region of five bits roughly 18 square kilometers is preferred although the size of the geohash region can depend on the character of the overall region which is being geohashed. For example a six bit geohash can be more suitable for a densely populated urban area while a four bit geohash can be more suitable for a sparsely populated rural area.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can map the financial transaction data to a geohash region by utilizing a standard geohash translation library. For example the merchant analysis system can pass as input the address of the consumer associated with a consumer transaction of the financial transaction data and specify the number of geohash bits to return for the address and the library can return the geohash for the passed in address. As the returned geohash code represents a level of precision for a given address two addresses that are in the same geohash region will return the same geohash code. In some embodiments the geohash translation library or API can be offered or exposed by the geographic data systems e.g. geographic data systems .

After the merchant analysis system maps the financial transaction data to one or more geohash regions the merchant analysis system can associate features to the geohash region step . According to some embodiments a feature is some characteristic of the financial transaction data or consumer data that describes some aspect of the geohash region. For example a feature could be a demographic feature such as the income gender age employment status home ownership status or ethnicity of the consumers residing within the geohash region. In some embodiments a feature can also be a transactional feature of financial data. For example a transactional feature can include total number of transactions originating from consumers residing in the geohash region transactions or tickets above a particular value originating from the geohash region or other features relating to the financial transaction data. According to some embodiments the merchant analysis system associates features through the use of the object model and the relationship between the financial transaction data and the consumer data as defined in the schema map or the ontology.

Returning to after the merchant analysis system has analyzed the received data it can apply a prediction model to the data step . A prediction model in some embodiments is a model that attempts to predict the performance for a particular merchant location. The performance can be measured in total sales total transactions or sales or transactions for a particular demographic feature e.g. 1200 for males making over 100 000 a year . In addition the prediction model can be used to predict performance based on the category of shopper. For example the merchant analysis system can determine the spending habits of a particular consumer based on the financial transaction data and the consumer data analyzed by the merchant analysis system. For example the merchant analysis system can determine that a particular consumer is a frequent purchaser of clothing shoes or electronics or it can determine that the a consumer frequents restaurants or certain types of restaurants. Further the merchant analysis system can determine the number of consumers of a particular category that reside within a particular geohash region. In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can use the category of shopper information to predict the performance of a merchant location. For example the merchant analysis system can predict that a merchant location should receive 10 000 a month from clothing shoppers.

According to some embodiments the merchant analysis system predicts the performance of a merchant location by aggregating the predicted performance for the merchant location for each geohash region that is within the merchant location s territory. For example the merchant analysis system can use the following equation to determine the predicted performance for a merchant location 1 where P is the performance of the merchant location G is the set of all geohash regions in the merchant location s territory the territory from which the merchant location expects sales r is an index representing each of the geohash regions nis the number of consumers residing in geohash region r pis the probability that a shopper from geohash region r will shop at the merchant location and xis the expected spend amount associated with geohash region r across all competitors of the merchant location.

In some embodiments the size of G can be variable and set by the merchant management system or other computer system requesting analysis of a merchant location it is managing. For example a merchant location in an urban area might have a small G while a merchant location in a rural location can have a large G. In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can limit the size of G to ensure efficient processing of predicted performance because as G increases the number of calculations the merchant analysis system must complete to find P increases. For example merchant analysis system can limit G to a five hundred square kilometer region so that calculations can be performed efficiently. In some embodiments the size of G can be set through the use of a user interface such as the exemplary user interface of .

The number of consumers for a geohash region can be determined based on the consumer data the merchant analysis system receives. For example the merchant analysis system can determine that all residents of a geohash region above a certain age are included in n. In some embodiments the number of consumers for a geohash region that the merchant analysis system uses to determine predicted performance may be set through the use of a user interface such as the exemplary user interface of . For example a filter can be applied so that only consumers of a certain gender or income level are included in n.

In some embodiments p the probability that a shopper from geohash region r will shop at the merchant location is determined using a Huff model. The Huff model attempts to determine the probability that a consumer located at particular distance from a retail location will shop at the retail location. In some embodiments the Huff model uses the following equation 

The numerator of equation 2 calculates the attractiveness to distance ratio for store j while the denominator calculates the sum of the ratios of attractiveness to distance for store j and all of its competitors. In some embodiments competitors include the same merchant as j but in another location. The merchant analysis system can use a list of competitors provided to it by the merchant management systems as part of the merchant data it received at step .

According to some embodiments the attractiveness of a particular merchant location A is based on features of a particular merchant location. For example the square footage number of parking spaces whether it is in a mall or shopping center or pricing can be features that contribute to attractiveness of a particular merchant location. The value of the measure of attractiveness can be some index that combines one or more of these features into a single value. In some embodiments an attractiveness parameter can be applied to the measure of attractiveness to weigh it according to how important the features contributing to the measure of attractiveness are in determining the probability that a particular consumer can make a purchase at the retail location. The attractiveness parameter can be adjusted overtime based on empirical observation.

In some embodiments to calculate the distance from a geohash region to a retail location the merchant analysis system calculates the distance from the centroid of the geohash region to the retail location. The merchant analysis system can calculate the distance using aerial distance or it can calculate the distance using the driving or walking distance e.g. using established roadways walkways or bicycle paths where appropriate . In some embodiments the merchant analysis system requests the geographic data systems to calculate the distance from the centroid of the geohash region to the retail location. The merchant analysis system can also use a distance decay parameter to weigh the impact of distance on the probability that a consumer from a geohash region would purchase an item from the retail location. For example in rural locations the large distances between consumers and retail locations is not as important as would be for urban locations. Thus in some embodiments the merchant analysis system can use a larger decay parameter in urban areas and a smaller one in rural areas.

Returning to equation 1 above the merchant analysis system also determines the expected spend amount associated with geohash region or x. The expected spend amount is a learned value or weight that is determined using online machine learning applied to the financial transaction data that has been received over time for a particular store. In some embodiments financial transaction data including the demographic or transactional features used to determine the performance of the store are selected from geohash regions around a merchant location to form a test data set. The merchant analysis system then feeds the test data set into an online machine learning algorithm which uses the data in a series of trials. The first trial occurs at a first point in time using a seed value and the spend amount is predicted for a second point in time. The actual spend for the second point in time is them compared to the predicted spend for the second point in time. The difference is then used by the online machine learning algorithm to construct a second trial. This feedback loop continues until the difference between the predicted and actual spend over the test data set is minimized and the learned weight can then be used to determine performance according to equation 1 above. While the merchant analysis system can use any known online machine learning method for determining the learned weight in some embodiments the merchant analysis system uses the Vowpal Wabbit library for determining the learned weights.

After applying the prediction model to the received data the merchant analysis system can determine the actual amount spent at the merchant location for which it is calculating performance step . In some embodiments merchant analysis system uses the financial transaction data it received to determine the actual spend amount. For example merchant analysis system can add up all of the consumer transactions associated with the merchant location that match the features for which the merchant location s performance is being measured.

After it determines the actual spend amount for a merchant location the merchant analysis system can determine performance of the merchant location step by comparing the predicted performance at step to the actual spend amount at step and express that performance through the use of a generated user interface step . The performance can be expressed as a percentage e.g. 5 in dollars e.g. 400 000 in transactions e.g. 5000 transactions and or some other metric. In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can express the performance of the retail location with a text string such as under performing over performing or performing as expected. In some embodiments the user interface can include an icon or color to represent the performance of the merchant location. For example an under performing merchant location can be colored red.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can generate one or more user interfaces communicating the financial transaction data consumer data and or merchant data it received as well as predicted and actual performance of merchant locations. According to some embodiments the generated user interface contains a map showing one or more merchant locations and or one or more locations of the merchant s competitors. The merchant analysis system can generate a user interface by creating code that renders a user interface on another computing device such as merchant management systems . For example the merchant analysis system can generate HTML code that when interpreted by a web browser renders the user interface. The merchant analysis system can also generate a user interface as a serialized object that is transmitted to a client application executing on other computing systems e.g. merchant management systems which then uses the serialized object to display the user interface on its screen.

User interface includes performance display selector and merchant selector . The performance display selector can be used to command merchant analysis system to change the performance data being displayed for merchant locations mapped on map . For example when Total Spend is selected merchant analysis system generates user interface such that performance data is shown in the amount in dollars spent and when Transaction Count is selected the merchant analysis system generates user interface such that performance data is shown in the number of transactions. Merchant selector can be used to command the merchant analysis system to show merchant locations for particular merchants. For example as shown in Store A is selected in merchant selector and the merchant analysis system generates user interface to show data associated with Store A merchant locations are the locations of Store A s retail locations and the performance data shown in user interface is for Store A. When Store B is selected as shown in merchant analysis system generates user interface to show data associated with Store B merchant locations are the locations of Store B s retail locations and the performance data shown in user interface is for Store B. In some embodiments when merchant selector is selected the displayed merchant locations include both the locations for the selected store and the selected store s competitors. For example after Store A is selected merchant locations may include locations for Store A and locations for Store C a competitor of Store A.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system generates user interface with color coded geohash regions e.g. geohash region . The geohash regions can be color coded or highlighted in various ways to reflect the total spend amount or transaction count depending on the performance data metric selected in performance data selector . User interface can include key that informs a user of the amount of sales for a particular color. As shown in when no specific retail location is selected geohash regions can be color coded or highlighted with the performance data for all locations of the merchant. For example as shown in the darkest of geohash regions contributed 1 500 000 in transactions for all merchant locations of Store A.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can receive an indication that one of the merchant locations was selected by a user and it can update or regenerate the user interface to reflect the selection. show several user interfaces that the merchant analysis system can generate when one merchant location has been selected by a user consistent with the disclosed embodiments.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system generates user interface and provides the ability for a user to select a group of geohash regions and display performance data for those geohash regions. shows a selected group of geohash regions . When the merchant analysis system receives a command that one or more geohash regions were selected it can regenerate user interface to reflect performance data for the selected geohash regions. In some embodiments user interface can also include feature display which shows feature characteristics for the selected geohash regions.

As noted above with respect to user interface can include limit user interface element . As shown in limit user interface element can include a gender filter and user interface can reflect data corresponding to selected genders. For example as shown in user interface is not displaying performance data for males as males have been deselected in gender filter . Limit user interface element can also include transaction ticket size filter shown in which can be used to limit the size of transactions shown by user interface . When a transaction ticket size is selected the merchant analysis system can regenerate or update user interface to show performance using financial transaction data satisfying the selected transaction ticket size.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can generate a user interface that includes predicted performance for merchant locations. illustrate user interface including predicted performance consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure. User interface includes map which shows several merchant locations. According to some embodiments user interface includes indications of the predicted performance for each of the merchant locations. For example as shown in the predicted performance in total spend amount is shown for each merchant location. When a merchant location is selected the merchant analysis system can update user interface to reflect performance data for the selected merchant location. In some embodiments user interface can include performance element which displays the total spend and transaction count for the selected merchant as well as an indication of performance e.g. the text UNDER PERFORMING .

According to some embodiments in addition to displaying performance data user interface can include one or more of the features described above with respect . For example as shown in user interface can include limit user interface element and gender filter . When males are deselected from the gender filter the user interface can display performance data with respect to all consumers that are not male i.e. female and unspecified consumers . Other filters can be used to limit the display of predicted performance data to certain features. For example limit user interface element can provide filters for merchant categories age income transaction ticket size or whether the transaction was associated with an e commerce channel. In addition predicted performance displayed can also be limited to category of shopper or other features consistent with disclosed embodiments.

In some embodiments the merchant analysis system can predict revenue for a hypothetical entity location with certain attractiveness attributes at a particular placement. shows user interface including hypothetical entity location at placement . According to some embodiment user interface can provide the ability to select the placement of hypothetical entity location by providing the ability to select a region on map using an input device such as a mouse or touchscreen. When a region on map is selected the merchant analysis system can receive a message containing the coordinates associated with the selection region and it can then apply prediction models to the hypothetical entity location and other entity locations within the same area as the hypothetical entity location as described above with respect to and equations 1 and 2 . After the predicted spend amount for each entity location is determined including for the hypothetical entity location the merchant analysis system can generate or update user interface to display the predicted spend. For example as shown in hypothetical entity location has a predicted spend amount of 1 200 000.

According to some embodiments the merchant analysis system can provide the ability to automatically place a store at an optimal placement based on the financial transaction data and the location of existing stores. shows user interface with auto place button . When selected auto place button sends a message to the merchant analysis system to determine the optimal placement for a new retail location. In some embodiments the merchant analysis system uses equations 1 and 2 described above with several hypothetical placements to the determine the optimal placement. Once determined the merchant analysis system can generate user interface showing optimal placement on map .

In the foregoing specification embodiments have been described with reference to numerous specific details that can vary from implementation to implementation. Certain adaptations and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made. Therefore the above embodiments are considered to be illustrative and not restrictive.

