---

title: Monitoring and tracking athletic activity
abstract: Tracking and monitoring athletic activity offers individuals with additional motivation to continue such behavior. An individual may track his or her athletic activity by completing goals. These goals may be represented by real-world objects such as food items, landmarks, buildings, statues, other physical structures, toys and the like. Each object may correspond to an athletic activity goal and require an amount of athletic activity to complete the goal. For example, a donut goal object may correspond to an athletic activity goal of burning 350 calories. The user may progress from goal object to goal object. Goal objects may increase in difficulty (e.g., amount of athletic activity required) and might only be available for selection upon completing an immediately previous goal object, a number of goal objects, an amount of athletic activity and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09345930&OS=09345930&RS=09345930
owner: NIKE, Inc.
number: 09345930
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130426
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 855 301 filed Aug. 12 2010 which is a non provisional application of and claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 240 185 entitled MONITORING AND TRACKING ATHLETIC ACTIVITY and filed Sep. 4 2009 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 240 632 entitled MONITORING AND TRACKING ATHLETIC ACTIVITY and filed Sep. 8 2009 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 359 278 entitled MONITORING AND TRACKING ATHLETIC ACTIVITY and filed Jun. 28 2010. The contents of the above referenced applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to the collection and display of athletic information. Some aspects of the invention relate to the collection of step activity information and data over a network and displaying the collected information.

While most people appreciate the importance of physical fitness many have difficulty finding the motivation required to maintain a regular exercise program. Some people find it particularly difficult to maintain an exercise regimen that involves continuously repetitive motions such as running walking and bicycling.

Experienced athletes and trainers have found that feedback provides many people with motivation to maintain a regular exercise program. When a person can directly experience the results provided by an exercise program that person typically will be encouraged to continue exercising. Unfortunately the physical improvements obtained from exercise often come too slowly to provide sufficient motivation for many people to maintain a regular exercise program. It would therefore be useful for many athletes to have a more immediate visual type of feedback to provide motivation for regular exercise.

Many experienced athletes and trainers also have found that competition may provide an even stronger motivation to maintain a regular exercise program. Some athletes for example will be more motivated to exercise when competing against a partner than by exercising alone. These athletes may for example exercise with a partner enter into athletic contests such as races or even just compare their current performance ability with a friend s.

Various aspects of the invention relate to the collection and display of athletic information. With some implementations of the invention athletic data relating to a single person is collected and displayed so that the person can fully critique his or her performance. For example a set of athletic data corresponding to athletic activity performed by a person over a first time period may be displayed as a graph. If the set of athletic data is generated from e.g. a person running or walking then the person s speed may be plotted against his or her distance over the time period for the activity. Alternatively or additionally a number of steps performed or calories burned during walking or another step related activity may be plotted against time. With some implementations the set of athletic data can be analyzed and the analysis results can be displayed simultaneously with the graph. For example with a set of athletic data obtained from a person running the data can be analyzed to determine the change in speed i.e. acceleration or deceleration between fixed distances first mile second mile etc. . This information can then be displayed with the graph so that the person can review when and how much he or she changed speed during the run. In another example a set of athletic data obtained from a person walking may be analyzed to determine a pace with which the user is walking a time of day the user is most active a best workout in a period of a week and the like.

According to another aspect athletic activity data may be visualized in a variety of ways. For example an athletic activity chart may be represented by a bar graph having various textures colors patterns and the like. The various patterns colors or textures may also be used to represent different information attributes such as a time of day or level of intensity of a particular set of activity data.

Athletic activity data may further be published in one or more outlets. For example activity data may be published as a news entry on a user s social network page. Alternatively the activity data may be published as a status entry on a user s social messaging site. The activity data may automatically be transmitted to the publication outlets based on a specified schedule or in response to certain triggers such as the completion of a goal or burning a certain number of calories. The user may further limit the types and or amount of information publicly displayed.

In addition some examples of the invention may allow a person to specify a goal related to an athletic activity. A person may e.g. set a goal of running a specified total distance within a specified period of time. With these implementations of the invention data from multiple sets of a person s athletic data may be aggregated and displayed in contrast with the person s specified goal. The goal may be displayed for example as an empty shape like an oval. The aggregated data may then be displayed as fill within the empty shape. Thus if the aggregated data shows that the person is within 80 of his or her goal then the shape representing the goal will be displayed as 80 filled. In another example a person may specify a goal to walk a certain number of steps or burn a number of calories by walking Accordingly the user s progress in burning the number of calories or walking the number of steps may be reflected in the visual appearance of a goal object such as a donut e.g. for calories burned or a building e.g. for steps walked .

According to one or more aspects a goal may be represented by a goal object that is visually relevant. For example the goal object may be a food item representative of a number of calories the user must burn. In another example the goal object may be a building representing a number of steps the user must walk. A series of goal objects may offer the user a sense of progression such that once a user completes a first goal a second goal is offered to the user. Completion of each goal or all of the goals may correspond to an award. Certain goals and corresponding goal objects might not be available to a user for selection until the user has completed prerequisite or other goals.

Goals may be defined with a common thematic element. For example goals may relate to various locations in the world. Thus each location may have a series of goals that the user must accomplish prior to progressing to another location. The goals in each geographic location may be relevant or associated with that location. For example in Paris France goals may include virtually walking up the Eiffel Tower e.g. translating actual walking or running to virtually ascending the Eiffel Tower burning a baguette s worth of calories and or running a distance equal to the distance between the Arc De Triomphe and the Louvre. As with goals and goal objects users might not be allowed to access certain locations in the world until completing goals and activity objectives in other locations. Users may further define custom themes by defining goals for the theme and specifying a progression of the goals.

With some implementations sets of athletic data may be obtained from a plurality of different persons and displayed. For example one or more sets of data from each of a plurality of different persons may be collected. Data from each person s data sets can then be aggregated and displayed to each person. For example a set of athletic data can be generated for each run a person makes. For each person data from his or her data sets such as distance data can be added up. An icon such as a bar or line can then be displayed for each person to represent the sum of the data from his or her data sets. A dimension of the icon such as e.g. its height may correspond to the sum of the data added from each of a person s data sets.

According to yet another aspect users may offer or accept challenges. Challenges may include one or more goals that are to be completed in a specified time frame. A challenge may be won by completing the challenge in the fastest time performing the most steps in the allotted time and or burning the most calories.

Still further some examples of the invention may allow a person to invite one or more other persons to share athletic data corresponding to their athletic activities. With some implementations of the invention for example a user may send an invitation via electronic mail or a similar electronic medium to one or more other persons. Athletic data from only those invited persons may then be displayed simultaneously as noted above. This arrangement allows each invited person including the inviting host who inherently invites himself or herself and thus is considered an invitee as well to compare his or her current athletic data with the other invitees.

For yet other implementations of the invention the performance data collected from one or more users details associated with one or more athletic performance goals or training programs and the user interface associated therewith may be included in and or displayed by a mobile device.

These and other features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description.

Aspects of the invention relate to the measurement collection and display of athletic information. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art athletic information must first be obtained from an individual person. With various implementations of the invention one or more different athletic information monitoring devices may be used to measure and record athletic data corresponding to athletic activity performed by a person. Typically an athletic information monitoring device will incorporate a sensor for measuring parameters relating to the person being monitored and a computing device for processing the parameters measured by the sensor.

Once an athletic information monitoring device has recorded athletic information for a person s athletic activity the person may then transfer the recorded athletic information to one or more separate devices in order to view the recorded athletic data. A user may for example download the recorded athletic information from an athletic information monitoring device to a separate collection device. The collection device may in turn transfer the athletic information collected from the athletic information monitoring device to a separate display configuration device where the athletic information can be organized and configured for subsequent viewing with e.g. still another device. As will be discussed in more detail below various implementations of the invention will allow a person to record collect and display athletic information using a group of computing devices communicating over a network such as the Internet.

For example some implementations of the invention may allow a person to measure and record athletic information using a special purpose computing device. The user can then transfer the recorded athletic information to a local computing device such as a personal desktop or laptop computer. More particularly a user can download recorded athletic information from the athletic information monitoring device to a collection software tool on a local computer that acts as a client in a computer network. The collection software tool will then transfer the downloaded athletic information through the network to a remote server computer. A display configuration software tool on the remote server computer will then save the transferred athletic information. Later a person can use the client computer or another local computer to retrieve the stored athletic information from the server computer. In response to a display request from a local computer the display configuration software tool will configure the requested athletic information for display on the local computer and then transmit the configured athletic information to the local computer for display.

The interactive portion of the network may include a variety of software such as applications browsers widgets mashups daemons and embedded applications. The interactive portion may further include functionality e.g. provided by the software such as support transfer broadcast share view convert validate cache organize identify and configure. For example workout data may be broadcast using the functionality of the interactive portion of the network. According to one or more aspects the interactive portion may be embodied in one or more interactive devices. Such devices may include desktop computers laptop computers mobile phones media players fitness equipment and the like.

Some functionality and software may include interfacing with a centralized athletic activity data monitoring and networking system. The system may offer a variety of services directed to communities individuals and resources. Resources for example may include downloads documents music web services blogs forums help support and the like. Individual services may include a personal profile purchase history workout plan trophies records friends teams geodata maps trails device profiles performance history and or combinations thereof. Additionally the system may include community services or functions including challenges teams clubs sharing capabilities social networking even calendars community statistics and the like. Communications between each portion of the network may be performed through wired or wireless communications mechanisms and protocols including USB BLUETOOTH WiFi Ethernet TCP IP and Web protocols.

Sensor s wearable aggregator s secondary mobile aggregator s event retail kiosk desktop aggregator s conduit s central database server s application server s client browser mobile display s 

Also all the various sensing aggregating databasing and displaying components could be any combination of same or different devices or possibly missing entirely. A good example is one of the simplest configurations using an iPhone 

Sensor Communication Device Athletic training and monitoring server. In this case the communication Device both aggregates the sensor data before upload to the monitoring server and later displays the user experience from monitoring server.

Sensor wearable aggregator mobile multi person aggregator event side upload Kiosk Activity data server 3rd party application server e.g. Facebook client Browser activity display

According to one or more aspects athletic information may be received from one or more monitoring devices such as the sensor devices shown in as well as one or more data entry devices e.g. honor system entry of activities such as one or more of the aggregation devices. In one example clients may enter activity information into an activity based monitoring system via server to server protocols via an aggregation device as fuel to feed activity challenges and goals. Another example would be a log your activity form directly on the activity monitoring and tracking site.

Various examples of the invention may be implemented using electronic circuitry configured to perform one or more functions. For example with some embodiments of the invention the athletic information monitoring device the collection device the display device or any combination thereof may be implemented using one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs . More typically however components of various examples of the invention will be implemented using a programmable computing device executing firmware or software instructions or by some combination of purpose specific electronic circuitry and firmware or software instructions executing on a programmable computing device.

Accordingly shows one illustrative example of a computer that can be used to implement various embodiments of the invention. As seen in this figure the computer has a computing unit . The computing unit typically includes a processing unit and a system memory . The processing unit may be any type of processing device for executing software instructions but will conventionally be a microprocessor device. The system memory may include both a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art both the read only memory ROM and the random access memory RAM may store software instructions for execution by the processing unit .

The processing unit and the system memory are connected either directly or indirectly through a bus or alternate communication structure to one or more peripheral devices. For example the processing unit or the system memory may be directly or indirectly connected to additional memory storage such as the hard disk drive the removable magnetic disk drive the optical disk drive and the flash memory card . The processing unit and the system memory also may be directly or indirectly connected to one or more input devices and one or more output devices . The input devices may include for example a keyboard touch screen a remote control pad a pointing device such as a mouse touchpad stylus trackball or joystick a scanner a camera or a microphone. The output devices may include for example a monitor display television printer stereo or speakers.

Still further the computing unit will be directly or indirectly connected to one or more network interfaces for communicating with a network. This type of network interface also sometimes referred to as a network adapter or network interface card NIC translates data and control signals from the computing unit into network messages according to one or more communication protocols such as the Transmission Control Protocol TCP the Internet Protocol IP and the User Datagram Protocol UDP . Network adapters may be wireless or wired or combinations thereof. These protocols are well known in the art and thus will not be discussed here in more detail. An interface may employ any suitable connection agent for connecting to a network including for example a wireless transceiver a power line adapter a modem or an Ethernet connection. Connection agents may similarly be wireless or wired or a combination thereof.

It should be appreciated that in addition to the input output and storage peripheral devices specifically listed above the computing device may be connected to a variety of other peripheral devices including some that may perform input output and storage functions or some combination thereof. For example the computer may be connected to a digital music player such as an IPOD brand digital music player available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. As known in the art this type of digital music player can serve as both an output device for a computer e.g. outputting music from a sound file or pictures from an image file and a storage device. In addition this type of digital music play also can serve as an input device for inputting recorded athletic information as will be discussed in more detail below. Connections and interfaces may be wireless wired or combinations thereof.

In addition to a digital music player the computer may be connected to or otherwise include one or more other peripheral devices such as a telephone. The telephone may be for example a wireless smart phone. As known in the art this type of telephone communicates through a wireless network using radio frequency transmissions. In addition to simple communication functionality a smart phone may also provide a user with one or more data management functions such as sending receiving and viewing electronic messages e.g. electronic mail messages SMS text messages etc. recording or playing back sound files recording or playing back image files e.g. still picture or moving video image files viewing and editing files with text e.g. Microsoft Word or Excel files or Adobe Acrobat files etc. Because of the data management capability of this type of telephone a user may connect the telephone with the computer so that their data maintained may be synchronized.

Of course still other peripheral devices may be included with our otherwise connected to a computer of the type illustrated in as is well known in the art. In some cases a peripheral device may be permanently or semi permanently connected to the computing unit . For example with many computers the computing unit the hard disk drive the removable optical disk drive and a display are semi permanently encased in a single housing. Still other peripheral devices may be removably connected to the computer however. The computer may include for example one or more communication ports through which a peripheral device can be connected to the computing unit either directly or indirectly through the bus . These communication ports may thus include a parallel bus port or a serial bus port such as a serial bus port using the Universal Serial Bus USB standard or the IEEE 1394 High Speed Serial Bus standard e.g. a Firewire port . Alternately or additionally the computer may include a wireless data port such as a Bluetooth interface a Wi Fi interface an infrared data port or the like.

It should be appreciated that a computing device employed according various examples of the invention may include more components than the computer illustrated in fewer components than the computer or a different combination of components than the computer . Some implementations of the invention for example may employ one or more computing devices that are intended to have a very specific functionality such as a digital music player or server computer. These computing devices may thus omit unnecessary peripherals such as the network interface removable optical disk drive printers scanners external hard drives etc. Some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally employ computing devices that are intended to be capable of a wide variety of functions such as a desktop or laptop personal computer. These computing devices may have any combination of peripheral devices or additional components as desired.

As shown in more detail in the athletic parameter measurement device includes one or more sensors for measuring an athletic parameter associated with a person wearing or otherwise using the athletic parameter measurement device . With the illustrated implementations for example the sensors A and B may be accelerometers such as piezoelectric accelerometers for measuring the acceleration of the athletic parameter measurement device in two orthogonal directions. The athletic parameter measurement device is carried or otherwise worn by a user to measure the desired athletic parameter while the user exercises. For example as shown in the athletic parameter measurement device may be located the sole of a user s shoe while the user walks or runs. With this arrangement the sensors will produce electrical signals corresponding to the movement of the user s foot. As known in the art these signals can then be used to generate athletic data representative of the athletic activity performed by the user.

The athletic parameter measurement device also includes a processor for processing the electrical signals output by the sensors . With some implementations of the invention the processor may be a programmable microprocessor. For still other implementations of the invention however the processor may be a purpose specific circuit device such as an ASIC. The processor may perform any desired operation on the signals output from the sensors such as curve smoothing noise filtering outlier removal amplification summation integration or the like. The processor provides the processed signals to a transmitter . The athletic parameter measurement device also includes a power supply for providing power to the sensors the processor and the transmitter as needed. The power supply may be for example a battery.

According to one or more aspects the athletic parameter measurement device may include a fully or partially passive device such as a radio frequency ID RFID tag where the presence absence or distance to that device is measured. For example for a stair climbing exercise machine an RFID sensor may be used detect when your foot is on the rise and approaches an RFID tag attached to some part of the exercise machine allowing a very inexpensive way for counting steps performed on that machine. Another example is a wired or wireless sensor in close proximity to a bicycle wheel that detects an RFID magnet or other passive device attached to the wheel. In the wireless case a battery powered detector would detect rotations and then periodically send a signal wirelessly to a receiver aggregator that encodes how many rotations have been detected over a specific or implied period of time.

The athletic parameter measurement device transmits the processed signals to the electronic interface device as seen in . Returning now to the electronic interface device includes a receiver which receives the processed signals transmitted by the transmitter in the athletic parameter measurement device . The receiver relays the processed signals to a second processor which processes the signals further. Like the processor the processor may perform any desired operation on the processed signals such as curve smoothing noise filtering outlier removal amplification summation integration or the like.

The processor provides the processed signals to the digital music player . Referring back now to the electronic interface device includes a connector system that physically plugs into and connects with a conventional input port provided on digital music player . The input port into which the connector system of the electronic interface device connects may be any desired type of input port for transferring data such as a parallel data port a serial data port an earphone or microphone jack etc. The connector system may include any suitable connecting devices such as wires pins electrical connectors and the like so as to make an electrical connection or other suitable connection with corresponding elements provided in the input port of the digital music player e.g. to allow electronic and or data communications between the interface device and the electronic interface device . If necessary or desired additional securing elements may be provided to securely connect the interface device to the digital music player such as straps hooks buckles clips clamps clasps retaining elements mechanical connectors and the like.

Returning now to the processor provides the processed signals to the computing unit . The computing unit may initially store the processed signals in the memory . Further with some implementations of the invention the computing unit may operate on the processed signals provided by the athletic information monitoring device to generate a set of athletic data corresponding to the athletic activity performed by the user. For example if the athletic information monitoring device includes accelerometers for measuring the movement of the user s foot the computing unit may analyze the processed signals from the athletic information monitoring device to generate a set of athletic data describing the user s speed at specific instances during the user s athletic activity and the total distance traveled by the user at each of those specific instances. Various techniques for determining a user s speed from accelerometer signals are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 898 550 to Blackadar et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on May 24 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 882 955 to Ohlenbusch et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Apr. 19 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 947 to Darley et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Apr. 5 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 6 493 652 to Ohlenbusch et al. entitled Monitoring Activity Of A User In Locomotion On Foot and issued on Dec. 10 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 298 314 to Blackadar et al. entitled Detecting The Starting And Stopping Of Movement Of A Person On Foot and issued on Oct. 2 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 052 654 to Gaudet et al. entitled Measuring Foot Contact Time And Foot Loft Time Of A Person In Locomotion and issued on Apr. 18 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 018 705 to Gaudet et al. entitled Measuring Foot Contact Time And Foot Loft Time Of A Person In Locomotion and issued on Jan. 25 2000 each of which are incorporated entirely herein by reference.

The athletic data set may also include a time value associated with each speed value and or each distance value. If the athletic information monitoring device can be employed to collect athletic information from different users then the athletic data computing unit may additionally prompt the user to identify himself or herself in some way. This identification information may then be included with the athletic data set generated from the information provided by the athletic information monitoring device . Once the computing unit has generated a set of athletic data from the information provided by the athletic information monitoring device the computing unit may store the athletic data set in the memory . As will be discussed in more detail below when the digital music player subsequently is connected to a computing device implementing an athletic information collection tool the computing unit will download the athletic data to a display configuration tool hosted on a remote computing device.

While wireless communication between the athletic parameter measurement device and the interface device is described for the embodiments illustrated in any desired manner of communicating between the athletic parameter measurement device and the interface device may be used without departing from the invention including wired connections. Also any desired way of placing data derived from the physical or physiological data from the athletic parameter measurement device in the proper form or format for display on or output from electronic device may be provided without departing from the invention. For example if desired the athletic parameter measurement device may be specially designed and or programmed for use with one or more specific electronic devices e.g. pre programmed and or wired to operate with a specific device or devices and to provide output data in a form and format suitable for those devices. In this situation the interface devices may be marketed and sold to specifically target certain electronic devices such as specific models of digital music players and even other electronic devices such as telephones watches personal digital assistants etc. As another alternative if desired the interface devices may be programmed at a later time to operate with a wide variety of different electronic devices e.g. by downloading display or device driver and or format data for specific electronic devices from the Internet from disk or from another source etc.

If desired in accordance with at least some examples of this invention the electronic interface device may further include a display and or a user input system such as one or more rotary input devices switches buttons as shown in the illustrated example in mouse or trackball elements touch screens or the like or some combination thereof. The display may be employed to show for example information relating to music being played by the digital music player information relating to the athletic information signals being received by the digital music player athletic data being generated by the digital music player from the received athletic information signals etc. The user input system may be employed for example to control one or more aspects of the processing of the input data received via interface device to control input data receipt e.g. timing types of information received on demand data requests etc. to control data output to or by the electronic device to control the athletic parameter measurement device etc. Alternatively or additionally if desired the input system on the digital music player e.g. buttons a touch screen a digitizer stylus based input a rotary input device a trackball or roller ball a mouse etc. may be used to provide user input data to the interface device and or to the athletic parameter measurement device . As still another example if desired a voice input system may be provided with the interface device and or the digital music player e.g. to enable user input via voice commands. Any other desired type of user input system for control of any system elements and or for any purpose may be provided without departing from the invention.

The digital music player may include additional input and or output elements e.g. such as ports and shown in e.g. for headphones or other audio output power supplies short range wireless communications e.g. short range RF transmission technologies such as WiBree and BLUETOOTH long range wireless communications infrared input microphone input or other devices. If desired and if these ports and or would be covered when the interface device is attached to the electronic device the interface device may be equipped with similar external ports to ports and or and internal circuitry may be provided in the interface device to enable the user to plug the same additional devices into the interface device as they might plug into the digital music player and still take advantage of the same functions e.g. to thereby allow the necessary data signals power and or information to pass through the interface device to the user to another output and or to the digital music player .

It should be appreciated that while some specific embodiments of the invention described above relate to a digital music player alternate examples of the invention may be implemented using any portable electronic device. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be used in conjunction with a mobile telephone a watch a personal digital assistant anther type of music player such as a compact disc or satellite radio music player a portable computer or any other desired electronic device. Still further some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally omit the use of the interface device . For example the athletic parameter measurement device may be configured to communicate using short range wireless transmission protocols e.g. short range RF transmission long range transmission protocols wired transmission methods and or combinations thereof. For example short range wireless methods may include BLUETOOTH wireless communication protocol so that it can be employed with Bluetooth capable mobile telephones WiBree personal digital assistants watches or personal computers. WiBree generally refers to digital radio technology that provides short range transceiver capabilities with low power consumption. In one or more arrangements WiBree may complement other protocols such as Bluetooth. Of course still other wireless or wired communication techniques could be employed while omitting the interface device . For example a digital music player or mobile communication device or combination thereof may be configured to communicate directly with a sensor or measurement device through short range wireless or wired methods.

It also should be appreciated that while a specific example of an athletic parameter measurement device has been described above for ease of understanding any type of desired athletic parameter measurement device can be employed with various embodiments of the invention. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be a heart rate monitor a blood oxygen monitor a satellite positioning device e.g. a Global Positioning Satellite GPS navigation device a device for measuring the electrical activity of the user e.g. an EKG monitor or any other device that measures one or more physical parameters of the user. Still further the athletic parameter measurement device may measure one or more operational parameters of some device being manipulated by the user such as the speed and or distance of a bicycle the speed and or work performed by a treadmill rowing machine elliptical machine stationary bicycle the speed and or distance traveled by skis water or snow skates roller or ice or snowshoes or the like worn by the user etc.

Also while the athletic parameter measurement device has been described as being separate for the digital music player or other portable electronic device that receives the signals from the athletic parameter measurement device with some implementations of the invention the athletic parameter measurement device may be incorporated into the digital music player or other portable electronic device. For example some implementations of the invention may employ a music player mobile telephone watch or personal digital assistant that incorporates accelerometers a satellite positioning device or any other desired device for measuring athletic activity. Still further it should be appreciated that various implementations of the invention may employ a plurality of athletic parameter measurement devices incorporated into the digital music player or other portable electronic device separate from the digital music player or other portable electronic device or some combination thereof.

As shown the athletic information collection and display device includes an interface for receiving data from the athletic information monitoring device . The interface may be implemented using e.g. electrical components software components such as application program interfaces APIs or some combination thereof. The athletic information collection and display device also has an athletic data collection module . With various examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may detect when the digital music player or other portable electronic device storing one or more athletic data sets is connected to the athletic information collection and display device through the interface establish a communication session with the digital music player or other portable electronic device to retrieve the athletic data set or sets. In some implementations of the invention the athletic data collection module may delete athletic data sets from the digital music player or other portable electronic device after the athletic data sets have been retrieved.

With some examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may perform some further operations on the athletic data sets retrieved from the digital music player or other portable electronic device. For example if the athletic information monitoring device can be employed to collect athletic information from different users then the athletic data collection module may additionally prompt the user to identify himself or herself if this information was not previously obtained by the athletic information collection and display device . This identification information may then be included with the retrieved athletic data sets.

As previously noted the athletic information collection and display device typically will generate sets of athletic data from information measured by one or more athletic parameter measurement devices . With some embodiments of the invention however the athletic information collection and display device may instead store the raw information provided by the athletic parameter measurement devices . With these embodiments the athletic data collection module may retrieve the raw information from the digital music player or other portable electronic device and then generate athletic data sets from the raw information itself. Of course still other examples of the invention may divide functions relating to the generation of athletic data from the raw information measured by athletic parameter measurement devices between the athletic data collection module and the digital music player or other portable electronic device as desired.

The athletic data collection module may be implemented by for example software instructions executed by a computing unit of a computing device . With some examples of the invention the athletic data collection module may be implemented by a conventional software tool such as a browser. Alternately athletic data collection module may be implemented by a purpose specific software tool or by a conventional software tool enhanced to perform athletic data collection functions. For example the athletic data collection module may be implemented by a software tool that incorporates a conventional browser to perform a variety of functions. These functions may include e.g. selecting purchasing and downloading music and video content in addition to collecting athletic data from a digital music player or other portable electronic device.

Once the athletic data collection module has collected the processed signals provided by the athletic information monitoring device the athletic data collection module transmits the athletic data set to an athletic data display configuration device through an interface module . The athletic information collection and display device may communicate with the athletic data display configuration device through a conventional network such as the Internet. With these configurations the interface module may be implemented using any conventional type of network interface such as a network interface card. Of course any type of desired hardware or software combination alternately may be used to allow the athletic data collection module to send the collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . With some implementations of the invention the athletic data collection module may automatically forward collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . For example the athletic data collection module may attempt to forward collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device immediately after collection at a prescheduled interval upon the detection of a network connection to the athletic data display configuration device or some combination thereof. Alternately or additionally the athletic data collection module may prompt a user to specify when collected athletic data is sent to the athletic data display configuration device .

The athletic data display configuration device also includes an athletic data display configuration module and an athletic data storage . When the interface of the athletic data display configuration device receives athletic data from the athletic information collection and display device it provides the received athletic data to the athletic data display configuration module . The athletic data display configuration module may then store the athletic data in the athletic data storage for future use. As will be discussed in more detail below the athletic data display configuration module also will retrieve athletic data from the athletic data storage and configure the retrieved athletic data for display through one or more user interfaces in a manner that is meaningful to a user.

Returning now to when a user wishes to view information relating to his or her athletic activities or the athletic activities of another as will be discussed in more detail below the user submits this request to the athletic information collection and display device . More particularly the user can employ conventional input and output devices such as a keyboard mouse display and the like. The display request is then provided to an athletic data display module through a conventional interface input output interface . As well known in the art the interface input output interface may be implemented using any desired combination of hardware and software components such as conventional application programming interfaces APIs used to detect and process input from input devices and to send data to and otherwise control output devices.

With some examples of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented using any conventional tool for receiving input to request and control the display of data and then subsequently displaying the data in the manner requested. For example the athletic data display module may be implemented using a conventional browser program such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Opera executing on a computing unit . With still other embodiments of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented using a conventional browser program that has been enhanced by one or more display tools such as an ActiveX plug in a Java script or a version of the Macromedia Flash Player or Adobe Flash Player available from Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. In still other embodiments of the invention the athletic data display module may be implemented by for example a purpose specific software tool for displaying athletic data.

As will be discussed in more detail below when a user activates the athletic data display module he or she is provided with a user interface prompting the use to select what collected athletic data he or she wishes to view the format in which the user wishes to view the collected athletic data etc. This user interface may be generated by the athletic data display module the athletic data display configuration module or some combination thereof. When a user employs the provided user interface to submit a request to view athletic data the athletic data display module relays the request to the athletic data display configuration module . In response the athletic data display configuration module configures the requested athletic data for display by the athletic data display module . For example as will be discussed in more detail below a user may request to view the total distance run by a user for each day in a one week period. In response the athletic data display configuration module will retrieve the relevant distance data from the athletic data storage . It will then configure the retrieved distance data to be displayed through a desired image e.g. a bar graph and provide the configured athletic data to the athletic data display module for display to the user.

It should be noted that with some embodiments of the invention the data display configuration functions may be divided between the athletic data display module and the athletic data display configuration module . For example if the athletic data display module is implemented by a simple browser then the athletic data display module may serve as a thin client for the athletic data display configuration module . That is all of the data display configuration functions may be performed by the athletic data display configuration module . The athletic data display module will then only display the information provided to it. Alternately if the athletic data display module is implemented by a purpose specific software tool then most or all of the data display configuration functions may be performed by the athletic data display module . With these examples the athletic data display configuration module may be used only to store and retrieve athletic data from the athletic data storage .

Typically the athletic data display configuration device will be implemented at a remote location from the athletic information collection and display device . The athletic information collection and display device then may be connected to the athletic data display configuration device through an electronic communication network as previously noted. The electronic communication network may be a public network such as the Internet a private network or include some combination of both. For example illustrates a network including an athletic data display configuration device and a plurality of client devices for collecting and or displaying athletic data. These client devices may include personal computers A using some version of the Microsoft Windows operating systems available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. personal computers B using some version of the Apple operating system personal digital assistants C and telephones D. Of course various examples of the invention may alternately or additionally include any other desired electronic device that can be configured to collect and or display athletic data as discussed above.

It should be appreciated that a client device may perform an athletic data collection function an athletic data display function or both. That is while the example of the athletic information collection and display device described above is capable of both collecting and displaying athletic data some client devices may only collect athletic data. Further some client devices may only display athletic data. For example a user may employ a GPS equipped smart telephone to collect athletic data and transmit the collected athletic data to the athletic data display configuration device . The user may then employ a personal computer equipped with only a conventional browser to subsequently download and display the collected athletic data.

In response to receiving a request to review athletic information from a user via the athletic data display module the athletic data display configuration module will determine the user s identity. The athletic data display configuration module will then retrieve the athletic data associated with the user from the athletic data storage . Next the athletic data display configuration module will prepare a user interface for displaying the requested athletic data and transmit the user interface with the athletic data to the athletic data display module for display to the user.

As shown in the user has activated the Distance button and the Run button . In response the display initially shows an icon for the each of the most recent e.g. twelve sets of athletic data collected by the server that corresponds to the user. As previously noted each data set includes athletic data values generated from athletic information measured during a single discrete athletic activity performed by a person over a particular time period. Further the height of each icon will correspond to the total distance value included in the set of athletic data represented by the icon . For example on October the user traveled a total distance of 4.05 miles during a run whereas the user traveled a total distance of only 1.59 miles during a first run on December 23. Accordingly the icon A corresponding to the athletic activity on October 22 will be proportionally larger than the icon B representing the athletic data collected for the user s first run on December 23 as shown in this figure. If the user wishes to view icons for athletic activities performed before or after the athletic activities corresponding to the displayed icons the user can view those additional icons by activating the desired arrow buttons . The user interface may further include in one or more arrangements data such as calories burned and steps taken or various representation thereof e.g. a graph or chart .

If a user subsequently selects the Time button the athletic data display configuration module will reconfigure the user interface to display new icons so that each icon represents a total time value for each of the data sets. For example as shown in the height of each icon will correspond to the total time value in each represented data set. For example if the length of the user s run on October 22 was 54 minutes 2 seconds whereas the duration of the user s first run on December 23 was only 18 minutes 11 seconds then the icon A corresponding to the athletic data set for October will be proportionally taller than the icon B representing the athletic data set collected for the user s run on December 23.

In addition to displaying only distance and time information the user interface may optionally display additional information. For example with some implementations of the invention a user may employ a pointing device to select a specific icon or . In response to the selection by e.g. positioning a cursor over the icon the user interface may display additional information from the athletic data set represented by the selected icon. For example the user interface may use e.g. a pop up display not shown to display data values for the total distance time speed and calories burned for the athletic activity represented by the selected icon or . Still further the user interface may use e.g. color information to distinguish between the most recently collected sets of athletic data and athletic data sets that were collected at an earlier time. Thus the icons or representing data sets collected during the most recent download from an athletic information monitoring device may be illustrated using e.g. a light green color while icons or representing previously collected athletic data sets may be displayed with a dark green color.

With some implementations of the invention a user may obtain still more detailed information regarding an athletic data set by activating the icon or representing the athletic data set. For example a user may position a cursor over a desired icon or using a pointing device and then depress a selection button to activate the icon or . In response the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide a user interface graphically illustrating the data values in the corresponding athletic data set in more detail. For example as illustrated in various implementations of the inventions may display a user interface plotting a first type of data in the data set against a second type of data in the data set to provide a visual graph . More particularly as illustrated in this figure the athletic data display configuration module will plot speed values in the athletic data set against distance values data in the athletic data set providing the graph . In this manner a user can view what his or her instantaneous speed was at various points during the run. In addition the graph may include other relevant information such as for example an icon showing the type of athletic activity e.g. running and an indication on of the total distance traveled.

With some implementations of the invention the graph also may include specific distance waypoints which will show the particular speed value measured at the distance during the athletic activity represented by the position of the waypoint . For example if the user employs a pointing device to move a cursor over waypoint A the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 12 seconds at the first mile. Similarly if the user employs a pointing device to move a cursor over the waypoint B the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 17 seconds at the second mile. If the user then employs a pointing device to move a cursor over the waypoint C the user interface will display a pop up window not shown indicating that the user had an average speed of 12 minutes 3 seconds at the third mile.

The user interface also may include a value field indicating the total distance value total time value total average pace value total calories burned value and athletic activity type value corresponding to the represented athletic activity. It also may include an Options button . If the user activates the Options button the interface may display additional command buttons not shown that allow the user to name the selected athletic data set or delete the athletic data set. Still further the interface may include a Comparison button .

If the user selects the Comparison button the athletic data display configuration module will determine a time or distance classification for the selected athletic activity. For example if the total distance value collected for the selected athletic activity is approximately 6 kilometers then the athletic data display configuration module will classify the athletic data set corresponding to the selected athletic activity as a 6 kilometer athletic data set. Similarly if the total distance value collected for the selected athletic activity is proximal to another specified distance category e.g. 1 mile 10 kilometers 15 kilometers 10 miles 26 miles etc. then the athletic data display configuration module will classify the athletic data set based upon the relevant category.

After the athletic data display configuration module has classified the athletic data set it examines the other athletic data sets in that classification to determine which athletic data set has the highest total distance value or if the classification is based upon time or speed the lowest total time value or the highest average speed value . Once the athletic data display configuration module identifies the best set of athletic data for the determined classification it will then reconfigure the user interface to include a graph of this best athletic data set as shown in . As seen in this figure the graph may have the same characteristics and features as the graph representing the selected athletic activity session.

If the user selects the See My Runs button the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide the interface for display as shown in . Returning now to those figures if the user selects the Week button or the Month button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display one or more icons representing an aggregation of multiple sets of athletic data. More particularly the athletic data display configuration module will aggregate data values from each athletic data set based upon the designated time period.

 Week button then the athletic data display configuration module will add up the total distance data values for each set of athletic data corresponding to an athletic activity session occurring within a particular calendar week. The athletic data display configuration module will then modify the user interface to include icons where each icon graphically represents the sum of total distance values in the athletic data sets generated during a particular week. The athletic data display configuration module may also modify the user interface to include a calendar week field specifying the calendar week to which each icon is associated. As shown in the height of each icon represents the sum of the total distance values for each athletic data set for the specified week period. For example the user may have run a total of 4.05 miles during the weekly period from October 22 to October 28. On the other hand the user may have run a total distance of 20.25 miles during the week period of December 3 to December 9. Accordingly the icon B representing the aggregated athletic data for the week of December 3 to December 9 will be proportionally larger than the icon A representing the athletic data aggregated from the athletic data sets obtained for the week of October 22 to October 28.

Similarly if the user selects the Time button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display icons that represent the sum of total time values for aggregated sets of athletic data. More particularly as shown in a height of each icon will represent the sum of the total time values for each athletic data set obtained during the corresponding weekly period. For example if a user ran for a total time of 54 minutes 2 seconds during the week from October 22 to October 28 but ran for a total time of 4 hours 7 minutes and 24 seconds during the week of December 3 to December 9 then the icon B representing the aggregation of athletic data for the week of December 3 to December 9 will be proportionally larger than the icon A representing the aggregation of athletic data for the weekly period of October 22 to October 28.

Similarly if the user selects the Month button the athletic data display configuration module will modify the user interface to display icons representing the aggregations of data values from athletic data sets obtained over each monthly time period. For example if the user has selected the Distance button as well the user interface may display an icon representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during each calendar month as illustrated in . The user interface also may include a calendar month field specifying the calendar month to which each icon is associated. As shown in this figure the user interface thus includes an icon A representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of August and another icon B representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of January. The height of the icon A represents the sum of the total distance values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in August i.e. 18.84 miles while the height of the icon B correspond to the sum of each of the total distance data values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in January i.e. 58.84 miles .

If on the other hand the user has selected the Time button the user interface may display an icon representing the aggregation of total time values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during each calendar month as illustrated in . As shown in this figure the user interface thus includes an icon A representing the aggregation of total distance values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of August and another icon B representing the aggregation of total time values from data sets obtained for athletic activity sessions performed during the month of January. The height of the icon A represents the sum of the total time values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in August i.e. 4 hours 6 minutes 1 second while the height of the icon B correspond to the sum of each of the total time data values for each athletic data set obtained for athletic activity sessions performed in January i.e. 10 hours 47 minutes 27 seconds .

In addition to displaying only distance and time information the user interface may optionally display additional information aggregated from multiple sets of athletic data. For example with some implementations of the invention a user may employ a pointing device to select a specific icon or . In response to the selection by e.g. positioning a cursor over the icon the user interface may display additional information from the aggregation of athletic data sets represented by the selected icon. For example the user interface may provide e.g. a pop up display not shown to display sum of total distance data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon the some of the total time data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon the average of the average speed data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon speed and the sum of the calories burned data values data values corresponding to the aggregation of athletic activity information represented by the selected icon.

It should be noted that the athletic data display configuration module or with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display module may aggregate data from multiple athletic data sets in advance of receiving a request to display aggregated athletic data from a user. Alternately the athletic data display configuration module or with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display module may aggregate data from multiple athletic data sets only in response to a specific request from a user to view the aggregated data.

In addition to displaying specific athletic data values or aggregates of athletic data values various embodiments of the invention may alternately or additionally permit a user to set a goal relating to his or her athletic activities and then view one or more images graphically illustrating the user s progress toward accomplishing those goals. For example with the embodiments illustrated in a user can select the Goals tab shown in these figures. In response the athletic data display configuration module may configure and provide the user interface illustrated in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a Set A Goal button prompting the user to select a desired goal relating to his or her athletic activities.

When the user activates the Set A Goal button the athletic data display configuration module will configure and provide the user interface shown in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a More Often button a Distance button a Burn More Calories button a Faster button and a Back button . As known in the art activating the Back button will cause the athletic data display configuration module or with some examples of the invention the athletic data display module to configure and display the previously displayed configuration of the user interface or if the currently displayed configuration of the user interface is its initial configuration a previously shown user interface.

If a user wishes to perform the athletic activity more often then the user activates the More Often button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Number Of Runs control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Number Of Runs control a user can specify the number of runs or the number of times to perform some other athletic activity if appropriate he or she wishes to make within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Number Of Runs control is a field control i.e. having a field in which a value can be typed in while the Number Of Weeks control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

Similarly if a user wishes to run a longer distance in a given time period then the user activates the Distance button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance he or she wishes to run within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Total Distance control is a combination control with both a field control i.e. a field in which a value can be typed and a drop down menu control i.e. to allow the user to select the units in which the distance would be measure . The Number Of Weeks control illustrated in then is a radio control. Various examples of the invention however may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

If a user wishes to burn more calories during a particular time period then the user activates the Burn More Calories button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Number Of Calories control a Number Of Weeks control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Number Of Calories control a user can specify the number of calories he or she wishes to burn within a desired time period. Similarly by employing the Number Of Weeks control a user can specify the number of weeks making up the desired time period allowed to burn the desired number of calories. In the illustrated example the Number Of Calories control is a field control i.e. having a field in which a value can be typed in while the Number Of Weeks control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the number of runs that must be made and specified the time period in which they must be made to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

Lastly if a user wishes to run faster for a desired number of runs then the user activates the Faster button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes an Average Pace control a Number Of Runs control and a Set Goal button . By employing the Average Pace control a user can specify the minimum pace at which he or she wishes to travel for the desired number of runs. Similarly by employing the Number Of Runs control a user can specify the number of runs for which the user wishes to run faster in order to reach the desired goal. In the illustrated example the Average Pace control is a field control i.e. having fields in which values can be typed while the Number Of Runs control is a radio control but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the average pace and the number of runs for which he or she must run at or faster than the specified average pace to meet a desired goal the user can finalize the goal parameters by activating the Set Goal button .

After the user has specified a desired goal the athletic data display configuration module will monitor the athletic data collected by the athletic data collection module . When the user subsequently wishes to view his or her progress toward accomplishing the specified goals by e.g. selecting the Goals tab then the athletic data display configuration module will aggregate the relevant data from the collected athletic data set and configure a user interface graphically displaying the user s progress toward the specified goals. For example with some implementations of the invention the athletic data display configuration module may configure a user interface displaying bar graph such as the bar graph shown in . A portion of the bar graph corresponding to the user s progress is marked with fill . Thus in the illustrated example the fill in the bar graph indicates that the user has accomplished more than 50 of the athletic activity required to complete his or her goal. Some implementations may simultaneously display a bar graph or other progress indicator for each goal set by the user. Still other implementations of the invention may provide controls to allow a user to select a single bar graph or other progress indicator for display in the user interface.

Various examples of the invention may allow a user to challenge one or more other users i.e. athletes employing embodiments of the invention to a competition regarding athletic activities. With some implementations of the invention for example a user may issue a challenge to one or more other athletes by requesting the user interface shown in . As seen in this figure the interface includes a Distance Race button a Most Miles button a Fastest Run button a Distance Goal button and a Back button . As known in the art activating the Back button will cause the athletic data display configuration module or with some examples of the invention the athletic data display module to configure and display the previously displayed configuration of the user interface or if the currently displayed configuration of the user interface is its initial configuration a previously shown user interface.

If a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run a specified distance first then the user activates the Distance Race button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance that a challenge participant must be the first to run in order to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . Naming each challenge allows an athlete to identify and keep track of a plurality of different challenges in which he or she may be concurrently participating. The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus. It should be appreciated however that various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired. Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button .

When the user activates the Next Step button the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface in place of the Distance Race button as shown in . As seen in this figure the sub interface includes a Personal Message control an Email Address control and a Set Challenge button . The user can employ the Personal Message control to create a personal message to each athlete the user wishes to invite to participate in the challenge. Using the Email Address control the user can then specify the email address for each person he or she wishes to invite to participate in the challenge. In the illustrated example the Personal Message control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once the user has provided the email address for each desired participant the user can initiate the challenge by activating the Set Challenge button . In response to the user activating the Set Challenge button the athletic data display configuration device or with some implementations of the invention the user s athletic information collection and display device sends an email to each of the specified invitees. The email will contain the personal message and e.g. an interactive prompt to join the challenge. If an invitee agrees to join the challenge by responding to the prompt then the athletic data display configuration device will be notified that the invitee has agreed to join the challenge. These types of email interactive prompts such as the voting buttons provided in versions of the Outlook software tool available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. are well known in the art and will not be discussed here in detail.

After the athletic data display configuration device has identified the participants in a challenge it monitors the collected athletic data for each of the participants and aggregates the relevant data values in the collected athletic data. For example if the challenge is a race to determine who can be the first to run 100 miles for each participant the athletic data display configuration device will sum the total distance value in each athletic data set collected for that participant after the start date. When a participant has a sum of his or her total distance values that matches or exceeds the specified challenge distance and is the first invitee to do so then the athletic data display configuration device will identify that participant as the winner of the challenge. In response the athletic data display configuration device will notify each participant of the winner. The athletic data display configuration device may notify the participants using any desired technique such as by sending an electronic mail message by displaying a special purpose interface when each participant connects to the athletic data display configuration device etc. A variety of such notification techniques are well known in the art and thus will not be discussed in detail.

With various examples of the invention the athletic data display configuration device may additionally provide updates regarding the status of a participant relative to the other participants. These updates also can be provided using any desired technique such as by sending an electronic mail message by displaying a special purpose interface when each participant connects to the athletic data display configuration device etc. For example the athletic data display configuration device may configure and provide a user interface showing each participant s progress toward the goal of the challenge using e.g. bar graphs for each participant of the type previously described with regard to monitoring individual goals.

Returning now to if a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run the most miles in a given period of time then the user activates the Most Miles button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface as seen in . The sub interface includes a Challenge Duration control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Challenge Duration control a user can specify the total amount of time for which a challenge participant has to run the greatest total distance in order to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Challenge Duration control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus. It should be appreciated however that various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include the sub interface in place of the Most Miles button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

If a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can make the fastest run in a given period of time then the user activates the Fastest Run button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface as seen in . The sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance a user must run in order to have his or her run time eligible to win the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface in place of the Fastest Run button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

Lastly if a user wishes to establish a challenge regarding who can run a specified distance in a given period of time then the user activates the Distance Goal button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include a sub interface . As seen in the sub interface includes a Total Distance control a Challenge Name control a Start Date control and a Next Step button . By employing the Total Distance control a user can specify the total distance a user must run over the specified time period in order to meet the challenge. Next the user can provide a specific name for the challenge using the Challenge Name control . The user can then specify the starting date for the challenge using the Start Date control . In the illustrated example the Total Distance control and the Challenge Name control are each field controls i.e. controls having a field in which a value can be typed while the Start Date control is made up of a number of drop down menus but various examples of the invention may employ alternate types of controls as desired.

Once a user has specified the parameters of the challenge the user can begin the process of inviting specific athletes to participate in the challenge by activating the Next Step button . In response the athletic data display configuration module reconfigures the user interface to include the sub interface in place of the Distance Goal button . An example of sub interface is illustrated in . As discussed in detail above the user can employ the sub interface to invite others to participate in the challenge and ensure that the athletic data display configuration device is informed of the participants in the challenge. As also previously discussed the athletic data display configuration device will monitor the collected athletic data for each participant and aggregate the relevant data values from the collected athletic data to determine who wins the challenge. Still further the athletic data display configuration device can notify the participants of the winner of the challenge and with various examples of the invention of the status of each participant during the challenge as described above.

As well as interactive comparisons of a user s athletic data with other users such as the goals and challenges described in detail above some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally allow a user to passively compare his or her athletic data with other users. For example some implementations of the invention may provide a ranking of where a user stands with respect to other users. The ranking may be based upon a simple comparison or it may be limited to a specific demographic group a particular geographic region or some combination therefore.

For example with some implementations of the invention a user may request that the athletic data display configuration module generate and display the user interface illustrated in . As seen in this figure the user interface includes a comparison criteria region a filter region and display region . The comparison criteria region includes a plurality of radio style controls while the filter region includes a plurality of drop down controls . The display region then displays user information based upon athletic data selected using the comparison and filter information selected using the controls .

More particularly a user employs the radio style controls to specify the basic criteria according to which the athletic data display configuration module will compare athletic data for a plurality of users. These controls are referred to herein as radio style controls because the selection of one of the controls e.g. control C will automatically deselect a previously selected control and only one control may be selected at any given time. Of course it should be appreciated that other type of selection tools including other types of controls may be alternately or additionally employed with other implementations of the invention. Each control is associated with both a sorting criterion for sorting measured athletic data and a time criterion specifying a time period during which the athletic data being compared must have been measured. For example each of controls A C is associated with total distance as a sorting criterion while control A is associated with a week time period control B is associated with a month time period and control C is associated with an unlimited time period. Control D is then associated with a duration sorting criterion and a week time period.

With the example of the interface shown in each of the filter controls are selected to ALL as will be discussed in more detail below. Further the control A is selected. Because the control A is associated with the distance sorting criterion and the week time criterion the athletic data display configuration module will sort the aggregated distance data for participating users that was measured during the preceding week. It then lists the names of the participating users having the ten highest aggregated distance data values in the filter region . In addition the athletic data display configuration module will display in the aggregated distance data values measured during the preceding week for each of the identified participating users. Still further the athletic data display configuration module will display the user s corresponding aggregated distance measured for the preceding week. With some implementations of the invention the athletic data display configuration module also may display the ranking of the user s corresponding aggregated distance information measured for the preceding week relative to those participating users having a greater aggregated distance measured for the preceding week. Thus in the illustrated example the user Rauchholz has a ranking of 2932 relative to other participating users.

With some implementations of the invention the participating users will be any user who provides athletic data to the athletic data storage or to an affiliated athletic data storage . For still other implementations of the invention however the participating users may be a subset of the all of the users who provide athletic data to the athletic data storage or to an affiliated athletic data storage. For example the participating users may be only those users who agree in advance to have their data shared with other users or those users who do not specifically indicate that they wish for their athletic data to be private. Of course still other criteria may be used to determine which users will be treated as participating users.

In some situations a user may wish to limit the pool of participating users to whom the user will be compared. As previously noted the filter region includes filter controls . These filter controls may be employed to limit the participating users that will be considered for a desired comparison. For example as illustrated in a user can employ the filter control to select between including all participating users for comparison only male participating users for comparison or only female participating users for comparison. Similarly as shown in a user can employ filter control to limit the comparison to only those participating users within a desired age group. Still further as shown in a user can employ the filter control to limit the comparison to participating users within a geographic region.

It should be appreciated that with some implementations of the invention a user can employ each of the filters simultaneously. For example a user may employ the filter controls to limit the participating users considered for comparison with the users athletic data to only men between the ages of residing in the United States. The information required to filter the participating users may be obtained from any available source. Conveniently however the information may be obtained by requesting the users to submit this information for a user profile during an initial registration process. Of course while three specific filtering criteria have been disclosed it should be appreciated that any desired type and or combination of characteristics be employed as filters.

For some users walking or other step related activities such as stair climbing may be preferable over exercises such as running For example athletes with an existing injury or condition may find walking more suitable for their condition than running or other activities that may have a higher likelihood of exacerbating the injury or condition. Accordingly a system method and apparatus for monitoring and tracking step related activities may be provided for such users. Additionally any of the aforementioned features functions devices and systems such as goal setting and tracking challenges display of activity data and the like may be used in conjunction with and or to facilitate the collection and monitoring of step related activities such as walking. Step related or step activities as used herein may generally refer to activities that involve the detection of a number of steps taken below a threshold pace e.g. a defined running pace .

In one or more arrangements step activity data may be collected using a device such as digital music player connected to parameter measurement device . For instance parameter measurement device may include a pedometer that is commonly used to measure a number of steps taken by a wearer. As illustrated in the parameter measurement device may be connected to digital music player using an electronic interface device . Alternatively or additionally parameter measurement device may be connectable directly to the digital music player or may be included within digital music player . Furthermore and as noted herein parameter measurement device may be connected to other devices such as a mobile telecommunication device a personal data assistant athletic performance monitoring devices athletic activity equipment and the like. For example a step machine may include a step counting device configured to determine and record the number of steps taken by the user. In another example a parameter measurement device may be provided as a stand alone device that is wearable and or mobile.

According to one or more aspects a user may self report data such as a number of steps taken a number of calories burned a distance traveled an amount of time spent performing an athletic activity and the like. illustrates a mobile data collection and display device that may be used for self reporting of athletic activity data. For example display may display a user interface that includes a list of various athletic activities along with a list of times . A user may scroll through lists and to select an activity performed and a length of time therefrom. Other athletic performance parameters may also be selected for entry of an athletic performance activity including average heart rate distance incline decline and the like. Device may then estimate a number of calories burned based on the selections and display the estimate in portion . Once the selection and entry of data is finalized the user may select completed option to have the data entered into a database and or transmitted to an athletic tracking and monitoring network site. Other devices may similarly be used to operate a display and software in which a user may enter athletic performance data. For example users may perform data entry through a personal computer or a personal data assistant.

Additionally device may be configured to display a summary of athletic performance data for a given time period. For example illustrates a user interface in which athletic activity performed on June 22is summarized in list for the user. List may include the type of activity the time spent performing the activity and a number of calories burned actual or estimated . Further a daily total of calories burned and a weekly total of calories burned may also be displayed. Markers corresponding to the days of the week may be provided to identify the days on which athletic activity was performed. The user may then switch to the various days by selecting different ones of markers . The number of markers may be determined based on a specified time frame for the display of athletic performance data. The time frame may be user defined or may be configured based on a default e.g. weekly .

An athletic performance summary such as that provided in interface of may also be configured as a widget or website. illustrates a website function that allows a user to view a calendar of dates and select a particular date or week to view a corresponding athletic performance summary . Days on which athletic activity was performed may have a different appearance as compared to days on which athletic activity was not performed. This allows the user to more easily identify days for which athletic performance information is available. In one or more configurations the website function may be provided as a series of webpages applets or combinations thereof.

Athletic activity data may be transmitted to a remote network site for storage monitoring and tracking In one example athletic activity data stored in a digital music player may be transmitted through network access components included therein. However in arrangements where the digital music player or other athletic activity data collection device does not include network access capabilities the device may be connected to an intermediary device such as a personal computer or a mobile communication device that does have network access.

If the user requests transmission of the athletic performance data to the network site interface may further prompt the user to visit the network site as shown in . In one or more instances the network site may be specific to the type of athletic activity performed. For example prompt may ask the user to visit a site dedicated to tracking and monitoring step activity rather than one related to a running activity. If the user does not currently wish to visit the site prompt may provide additional information on how to access the site at a later time.

Once the user has logged into the site via either existing user login or new user registration the network site may provide a more detailed interface such as interface of . In addition to an indication of a number of steps performed today interface may provide a step tracker that tracks the number of steps taken on an hourly basis. The step tracker may be configured to display the number of steps taken on other time scales such as per minute per 30 minutes per 2 hours per day and the like. Hovering over one of athletic performance bars of step tracker may trigger interface to display details about that particular segment of athletic activity. For example hovering or otherwise interacting with bar may cause interface to display detail bubble . Detail bubble may indicate that the bar corresponds to a high level activity between 5 6 am including 5 871 steps. The user may further be provided with an option to provide further details on the activity performed by selecting from activity types and or adding a custom tag . Custom tag may be provided so as to allow a user to enter customized notes and information.

Interface may further provide a replay function that displays the user s average heart rate throughout the day based on the activity performed and recorded in tracker . The heart rate may be estimated based on a variety of information including user specific characteristics and general approximations. For example an estimated heart rate of an individual may be calculated based on weight age rate of steps taken e.g. number of steps per hour and the like. One visualization includes meter being filled and emptied based on the changes to the user s estimated heart rate throughout the day.

Other features of interface may include goals trends and friends . Goals may be used to display a user s level of activity as compared to a defined goal. Goals may be represented by blocks while a user s actual level of activity may be represented by blocks . Blocks may further display a breakdown of the level of activity performed including low moderate and high activity. The level of activity may be determined based on a specified type of activity performed and or a number of steps taken over a specified amount of time. Trends feature may be used to graph a user s athletic performance over longer periods of time than what is shown in step tracker . Friends feature on the other hand may be provided so that a user may quickly link to or view the athletic performance data social activity messages status updates and other information of his or her friends registered with the network site.

Alternatively in interface may selectively determine a site to which the data is to be sent based on the type of data detected. For example in prompt asks whether the user would like to visit a walking specific network site based on recognizing and transmitting only step based workout data. on the other hand illustrates a prompt that asks the user whether the user would like to visit a general workout site when the workout data includes both running and walking athletic activity data.

Multiple activities performed on the same day may be tracked and recorded separately from one another to provide a distinct breakdown of a user s day. In one example workouts may be separated based on type of activity whether the workout is a session workout or a daily workout and the like. In one or more configurations step activity data may be monitored and tracked separately from running data. For example a distance or pace a user walked might not be counted towards running distances and levels and vice versa. Instead a separate distance and or pace tracker may be provided for each of running activities and walking activities. Accordingly multiple workouts may be recorded and displayed for a single day e.g. July 15 includes 4 different workouts .

In a step based network site a user may be redirected to a user specific detailed workout page for tracking and monitoring the user s walking or other step related activity. In examples where a user is redirected to a run based network site the user may be redirected to a user specific general view page that may display summaries for both run workouts and walking or step based workouts. Upon selection of a run workout the user may then be redirected to a user specific run workout page for tracking the user s run activities. Alternatively if the user elects to view walking activities the user may be redirected to language selection page and subsequently to user specific detailed workout page bypassing the soft login page since the user already logged in at soft login page . Various reconfigurations of the topology may be performed based on user or client preferences for navigation. For example if a user elects to view walking or step related workouts from general view page the user may be directed to detailed workout page based on the language selected from language selection page thereby bypassing selection page

Alternatively or additionally a user may directly access run specific workout page by manually navigating to a corresponding network site address for page . The user may be asked to choose a language from language selection page prior to entering the site. In one or more arrangements a user may be directed to a login page not shown prior to being allowed to access user specific run workout page . In yet another arrangement application may redirect the user automatically to language selection page upon detecting only run based workout data.

Upon detecting athletic activity data stored in the collection module the system may in step determine the types of athletic activity data stored. Such a determination may be performed by examining data identifiers stored in association with the data. For example data entries for workout data may include tags that specify the type of activity performed or a unit in which the data was collected. Thus in one or more examples walking or step activity may be identified by the unit steps while running activity may be identified by units such as miles per hour miles or other distance unit and the like. In step the system may determine whether the athletic activity data includes walking workout data. If not the system may determine that the data only includes running data and direct the user to a first monitoring and tracking page of a remote network site that is configured to monitor and track both running and walking activities in step . Alternatively the user may be directed to another monitoring and tracking page that is configured to monitor and track only running activities in step in response to determining that the data includes only running data.

If the detected activity data does include walking data the system may subsequently determine whether the data also includes running data in step . If so the user may be directed to the monitoring and tracking page that is configured to monitor and track both running and walking workouts as described in step . If however the data only includes walking data the user may be directed to another monitoring and tracking page that may in one or more arrangements be specific and dedicated to walking workouts as shown in step .

In any of the above cases the athletic activity data detected from the collection module may further be transmitted to a remote network site associated with the monitoring and tracking page to which the user is directed in step . According to one aspect the same remote network site may provide the different monitoring and tracking pages. In another arrangement different sites may provide the different pages.

Soft login page may also include a goal tracker bar displaying a series of goals that may be completed in a specified order. For example once a user has completed goal corresponding to building a user may progress to a subsequent goal . In some arrangements a user might only be able to view and or select goals upon the user completing the immediately preceding goal a number of goals and or earning an amount of virtual currency credits. As illustrated goal is locked represented by the lock icon or hidden e.g. a generic or grayed out image of a goal since the user has not completed goal . Goal is viewable and selectable because the user has completed present goal as indicated by the check mark. Other completion indicators may also be used.

Goal objects such as goal object may be automatically or user selected. For example goal object may be selected based on an estimated number of calories burned or steps required to achieve some result with respect to the object. In a particular example a building such as the Tower of Pisa may be chosen based on a determination that 1000 steps are required to reach the top of the building. In another example a food item such as donut may be used to represent a goal. A network site may then determine a number of calories corresponding to eating the donut and a number of steps needed to burn off that number of calories. In one or more arrangements a number of calories burned may be approximated based on a default set of user characteristics or on user specific attributes such as weight height age and the like. Goal objects may be positioned in goal tracker bar so as to represent a progression from a less difficult goal to a more difficult goal. Additionally if a user manually selects a number of calories to burn or steps to perform the network site may automatically determine and select a goal object based on the user specified goal parameters i.e. number of calories or steps . Alternatively a user may define goals by selecting the goal object. The network site may then determine the goal parameters based on the selected goal object.

The type of object selected for a goal may depend on the type of goal the user is attempting to achieve. For example if a user wishes to burn a certain number of calories the network site or system may select a food or beverage object since food and beverages are commonly associated with calories. Alternatively if the user wishes to take or perform a specified number of steps the system may select a building location path or the like that is conceptually more aligned with performing steps.

If the number of goals that a user wishes to achieve cannot all be displayed simultaneously on goal tracker bar goal tracker bar may include scroll buttons that are configured to scroll goal tracker bar in one or more directions. According to one or more configurations scroll buttons may have a first appearance e.g. a color shade shape if no additional non displayed goals are present on the goal tracker bar in the direction corresponding to the scroll buttons and or . If on the other hand additional non displayed goals are present on the goal tracker bar the scroll buttons and or may have a second appearance.

In step the system may receive a user selection of a goal object from the displayed list of goal objects. Optionally receiving the user selection of the goal object may be accompanied by the system uploading the goal object from a remote location in step . For example if a user wishes to use an image that is not already stored in the system the user may upload the image from his or her computer or refer the system to a particular webpage or network site. The system may then generate the goal by specifying the entered parameters in association with the goal object in step . For example the image of the goal object may be stored in association with the user specified goal and the user s account in a goal or user database. In step the goal may be added to a workout plan consisting of a single goal or a series of goals. In one or more arrangements the user may further be permitted to specify an order in which goals in a workout plan are arranged and presented to the user for completion. In step the system may determine whether the user wishes to enter more goals. If so the process may return to step . If not the process may end.

Location information box may be used to indicate a number of users currently working on objectives in the selected location i.e. New York City. City information box may further display the top X number of athletes and the number of calories burned and or number of steps performed by each. Activity feed of interface includes information about the user as well as other athletes and their progress actions and accomplishments. For example activity entry specifies that the user chose the New York City challenge while entry indicates that athlete Larissa09 completed the Lincoln Tunnel Challenge. Various other messages may be provided in activity feed depending on user preferences default settings system or site requirements and the like. According to one or more configurations feed might only display information for groups organizations or individuals with which the user is connected e.g. confirmed friends within 1 2 3 or 5 degrees of separation confirmed member of an organization .

Badges may be awarded by the athletic activity tracking and monitoring site based on various achievements. For example in the location themed workout plan users may be awarded badges for each location that the user completes. Badge may be displayed in an outline or broken line form to indicate that the badge is available but has not yet been achieved. In one or more arrangements only those badges that are achievable in the present location and or badges that have already been achieved may be displayed in badges section . Badges may be defined for other types of achievements as well. For example a badge may be awarded for a user completing 3 goals in 3 consecutive days completing 2 goals in a single day being the first to complete a particular goal and the like. Upon being awarded a badge the badge may be displayed in an alternate appearance. For example the badge may be displayed in solid line form with color with writing with texture and the like.

Goal categories may be used to add an additional level of hierarchy to the goals. As described herein a location themed workout plan may include goal categories corresponding to various cities with one or more goals defined for each city. If goal categories are desired the system may receive specifications for a goal category in step . Goal category specifications may include a name of the category imagery text or sounds to be provided when a user has selected the category achievable badges for that category a level of difficulty and the like. In step the system may create the category based on the specifications. In step the system may associate one or more defined goals with the goal category. The association may be performed automatically manually or a combination thereof. For example a user may manually specify which goals should be stored in association with the category. Alternatively the system may automatically add goals based on a user parameter. For example the user may instruct the system to associate all goals with the word donut in the name or description with the created category.

If the user would like to add more categories the process may return to step . If not the process may proceed to defining an order or progression of the goals and goal categories in step . The order or progression may define the sequence in which goals are accessible and achievable. The order or progression may be defined manually or automatically. For example the system may automatically order the goals based on the magnitude of the goal or magnitude of all goals in a goal category e.g. increasing based on calories burned or steps walked . Alternatively a user may wish to manually define the order in which the goals are to be completed by the user and or the order in which goal categories may be completed. Once the progression has been defined for the themed workout plan the plan may be stored by the system in step .

In one or more arrangements friends may post messages or provide encouraging messages or rewards upon the user reaching a certain point in a workout plan. For example a friend may indicate that a message is to be displayed to a user upon the user completing the first goal in a particular goal location in a location themed workout plan. Alternatively or additionally a friend or other user may ask the system to provide a reward trophy encouraging message and or combinations thereof upon the user completing a specified amount of athletic activity e.g. based on calories burned miles run steps taken weight lifted etc. . Messages from other users and triggering such messages based on athletic performance may keep the user motivated in continuing his or her athletic activity regimen.

Zoom bar allows a user to view locations in greater detail and in larger format. In some arrangements where multiple goal locations may be in close proximity to one another zooming in may be necessary to more distinctly view the individual goal locations. At a zoomed out level the multiple goal locations in close proximity to one another may be grouped into one icon tab or other indicator. Hovering over the grouped icon or tab may reveal a list of goal locations represented by the icon or tab.

To track a multitude of activity goals and goal locations a virtual activity passport may be provided. illustrates an example virtual activity passport in which stamps icons or other visual indicia may be displayed to indicate the goals and or goal locations the user has completed. Accordingly if a user completes the New York City goals the user may be awarded with a New York City stamp. Prior to completion stamp outlines may be displayed. Activity stream may be also be provided to specify the latest activity performed by various individuals e.g. friends people working on goals in the same goal location individuals in the same network users in the same category of fitness level . Additionally a leaderboard may be displayed to identify individuals having earned the most fuel or other activity metric over a specified time period e.g. a week a month a day etc. .

Additionally various goals landmarks or tasks such as goals and may be displayed along path . Further the user s progress along path may be animated in one or more configurations e.g. the user s avatar or icon may be moved along path or a color of path may change gradually representing the user s progress . A goal might not be revealed until an immediately preceding goal or a previous number of goals have been completed. Interface may further display images video text and or audio in area of a current location of the user. Accordingly if the user is running by or along the Brooklyn Bridge pictures of the Brooklyn Bridge may be displayed in snapshots area . The location may be a virtual location of a user in the progress map or an actual physical location of the user. Other users progressing through the same location may be identified along path using icons . This allows the user to track their progress relative to his or her own progress. Interacting with icons may allow a user to contact and or view details about the other users.

Upon reaching a goal task or objective in a goal location a tracking interface may display goal information and ask if the user wants to begin working on the goal. illustrates prompt displaying a goal e.g. the Brooklyn Bridge and an option for starting the goal. Prompt may display the amount of fuel or other athletic activity metric required to complete the goal. For example a user may need fuel to cross the Brooklyn Bridge. The fuel or other athletic activity metric may correspond to an actual amount of athletic activity required for performing an athletic activity with the goal object e.g. calories burned to cross the bridge or may be an estimated representative or virtual amount. Once a user selects option the user s athletic activity and progress in completing the goal may be tracked by the system and be reflected in the appearance of the goal object.

If the user completes the goal and satisfies the requirements or conditions of a specified achievement the user may be awarded with a trophy or medallion reflecting the achievement. illustrate such awards.

In one or more arrangements postcards may be displayed in a user s progress interface. For example in a postcard created by a user may be displayed in area to represent particularly memorable moments in a user s workout history. Selecting the postcard from area may allow the user to view details of that moment achievement or accomplishment.

If the user is not currently in the process of completing a goal a route animation representing the user s progress through the goal location and between goals may be displayed instead in step . In step the system may determine whether the user has reached a goal. If so the system may display a goal prompt to ask the user whether he or she wishes to start the goal e.g. prompt of . If however the user has not reached a goal the system may instead display information about a current location in the progress map e.g. an amount of fuel earned distance to next goal fuel to next goal fuel distance from previous goal .

In some arrangements a summary of a user s athletic activity in a particular city or location may be displayed upon completion of all goals and activity in that location. illustrates such a summary. The summary may include a number of goals completed and a number of achievements e.g. medallions reached. The summary may indicate the amount of time required to complete the goals and activities in the location. The system may further provide the user with options to replay the city or location or to use another location. Replaying the location may reset the data for that location or alternatively generate another instance of the location so that data for the current completion is not lost.

In one or more arrangements a user may set a goal to compete against himself or herself. For example the user may wish to beat a previous best time for a particular location. Accordingly a time bar may be displayed to aid the user in tracking his or her progress versus the previously recorded time. illustrates an example interface in which a progress bar is displayed with two bars one bar indicating a present progress and another indicating a progress made in a previous workout at the same elapsed time. For example the bars may represent the number of calories burned and or fuel earned at a particular point in time since the user started the goal location.

An athletic activity tracking and monitoring site may further offer the ability for a user to engage in an athletic activity challenge with one or more other registered athletes. illustrates an example challenge interface in which a user may select from multiple different types of challenges. Challenges as used herein generally refer to goals that are competitive in nature between multiple individuals and have a specified deadline. Challenge types may include calorie challenges fuel challenges and steps challenges. Calorie challenges may correspond to competitions to burn a certain number of calories while steps challenges may relate to taking a specified number of steps. Fuel challenges as used herein may generally refer to a virtual currency challenge. Challenges may be created by a user and published to others. Alternatively or additionally challenges may be sponsored by an organization as a method of advertisement fundraising and the like.

The amount of virtual currency achieved or gained may be determined based on a formula that is based on calories steps or a combination thereof. Other factors may similarly be used in determining an amount of virtual currency to award. Virtual currency may then be spent to purchase actual products or services such as gift cards gym memberships digital music players workout equipment and the like. A currency meter may be displayed in a portion of interface to indicate an amount of currency the user has accumulated thus far. The capacity of meter may be defined based on a user set currency goal or a maximum allowable accumulation of currency as defined by the network sites.

According to one or more arrangements the virtual currency may be linearly correlated to a metric such as calories since this is a measure of human energy expenditure. From calories there may be one or more conversion algorithms based on one or more formulas to go between calories and all other metrics. For example 100 calories may be equated to 1 mile. Another example of an algorithm includes factoring in athlete weight given that there is a correlation between work energy force and distance and a correlation between force and weight. In particular work force distance and force function weight hence work function weight distance. A similar algorithm could go between calories and steps on a flat surface to calories steps at a particular incline to calories bicycle wheel revolutions and wheel diameter on flat surface steps revolutions or other measurable metric on a particular brand and model of fitness equipment and rowing strokes.

Upon selection one of challenge types bottom section of interface may display one or more challenges of the selected type which in the illustrated example is calories. Along with the name each challenge may also indicate a number of challengers current participating in the challenge. Thus if a user prefers to take on challenges that are more popular or have more participants he or she may identify those challenges from section rather than having to select and view details for each individual challenge.

A challenge or competition option might only be available to a user for a particular location upon the user completing all goals for the goal location. Once a user has completed a particular location the system may offer the user a competition option such as option of .

If the user chooses to compete against another individual the user may be presented with a competitor selection interface. In for example the user may select a competitor from list . Additionally the user may select a start date for the competition. Other parameters may also be defined such as an end date and a personal message to the invitees. A user may also select more than one competitor to invite. Once the parameters of the competition have been defined the user may transmit an invitation to the selected competitor s . illustrates an interface conveying a progress of the competitors through progress bars .

Alternatively or additionally illustrates that the user s activity may be represented by curvatures along the object s surface. The height of the curvatures relative to object s surface may represent the amount of activity performed while the location of the curvatures is indicative of the time at which the activity was performed.

Aspects described herein may be equally used with or applied to other types of activities beyond walking and other step oriented exercises. For example data for running skiing jumping rope weightlifting and the like may be represented by and processed using the features described herein. In particular virtual currency may be determined from any type of exercise from which an amount of calories burned may be measured or determined e.g. according to the formulas and algorithms discussed above .

While the invention has been described with respect to specific examples including presently preferred modes of carrying out the invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are numerous variations and permutations of the above described systems and techniques that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

