---

title: Determining present venue for a user device
abstract: A user device acquires identifiers and signal strengths corresponding to detectable wireless devices. The user device associates one or more of the identifiers with one or more venues, assigning a confidence value to each association. A score value is also assigned to each association based on the signal strengths and the confidence values. One of the associations is selected based on the score values, and is designated as the most likely venue where the user device is located. Information may be accessed or requested, or one or more operations may be performed, in accordance with the most likely venue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09361633&OS=09361633&RS=09361633
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09361633
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131111
---
It is desirable to provide particular information or target certain services to a user device based on the device s present location. Methods and apparatus for accurately determining user device location are continually sought after.

Certain implementations and embodiments will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying figures in which various aspects are shown. However various aspects may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

User devices having portable form factors are employed for various purposes. Cellular telephones tablet computers wearable computers media access or viewing devices e book readers and the like are just a few examples. Such user devices perform various respective functions and are designed to be used in a mobile manner.

The location of a user device may be automatically determined using navigational satellite signaling cellular network data inertial navigation resources accessible to the user device or by other suitable techniques. Such a location may be a latitude and longitude a street address a rural route number or other format or location conveying information. Location information is usually approximate in nature and subject to some margin of error such that an exact location is not known. While a user may obtain a more precise location based on signage landmarks or other cues in the environment about them such a process is tedious and requires that such information be manually entered into a user device in order to perform corresponding operations.

Moreover it may be desirable to identify the venue of a user device with respect to a particular business government office and so forth. A venue comprises a premises at which a particular activity or type of activity may take place. Venues may include concert halls stadiums restaurants shops gas stations libraries parking facilities and so forth. Some venues such as a chain of coffee shops may be located at several different locations.

Users often seek information or services related to the venue they are presently visiting. For example a user within a restaurant may wish to view their menu while waiting to be seated. In yet another example a user within a venue such as a public library or a bookstore may receive information about bestsellers which are available. From another perspective those operating a particular venue may wish to provide various kinds of information to their visitors or offer certain services or assistance. In one such example a clothing retailer may want to inform visiting customers regarding presently offered sales items. Such information or services may be provided by way of respective user devices.

Automatically determining the specific venue where a user device is located makes possible the timely or opportune provisioning of related information or services. For example a menu may be uploaded or made accessible to an e book reader once it is determined that the device is within the corresponding restaurant. In another example knowing the user is in a clothing store may result in presentation on a display of the user s tablet computer of advertisements for other clothing stores or accessories. In yet another example travel related information and services may be provided to a smart phone after entry into an airport or train station. These and numerous other operations may be performed without a user having to identify or manually input their present venue.

An approximate location for a user device may be determined using global navigation satellite system GNSS cellular signaling internal navigation resources or other techniques. The user device may then issue a request for information regarding proximate venues and their respective names to a server or other computing device by way of wireless signaling. Such a request may include the present location as well as a distance or range about that location defining an area or spatial region of interest. Alternatively the user device may access venue information stored therein within a data structure identifying venues within an area about the current location.

The user device may acquire or survey respective wireless access points that are detectable thereabout. A signal strength value and an identifier such as a service set identifier SSID are acquired for each of the detected wireless access points. The user device may then attempt to match the identifiers against the respective venues received from a responding server or acquired by data structure lookup.

Thus the user device may survey the detectable radio frequency RF space to determine what wireless access points are nearby. Such a survey may be performed without determination of a present location and may be done as an initial step toward identifying a venue or venues of particular interest for which other actions may be performed.

The user device identifies one or more characters strings or other portions of interest within each of the identifiers and matches these against corresponding portions within the respective venue names. In another example the user device may match one or more previously known identifiers against one or more venues. Heuristic comparisons pattern matching or other techniques may also be used to associate one or more of the identifiers with one or more of the venues.

The user device may assign a respective confidence value or metric to each of the identifier venue associations. Each confidence value is based on the extent or intersection of the matches made between the respective identifiers and the venue names or respective portions thereof. In this way the certainty or probability of each respective association is quantified. A higher confidence value corresponds to a greater certainty of the corresponding association.

The user device may assign a score value to each of the associations based on the confidence value and the signal strength values. In one instance each score value is equal to the mathematical product of the corresponding confidence value and signal strength. Other scoring techniques or methods may also be used. The user device then selects one of the score values usually the greatest value as corresponding to the most likely venue where the user device is presently located. The user device may then issue a wireless request for information or services particular to the most likely venue trigger the display of previously acquired information or perform other operations accordingly.

In another implementation the user device determines an approximate location and acquires signal strengths and identifiers for detectable wireless signals thereabout. This information is then provided to a server or other service device by wireless signaling which determines and communicates the most likely venue back to the user device. Thus the bulk of the computational efforts are performed by the server and the user device performs a less complex roll. Information related to the most likely venue advertising maps or access data and numerous other kinds of matter may be communicated to the user device or services provided by the most likely venue may be accessed accordingly. Respective variations on the foregoing may also be used in accordance with the methods devices and systems described herein.

A user device is associated with a user . As depicted the user device is a tablet computer having a portable form factor and configured to perform various operations in accordance with executable program code. Other user device types or configurations such as e book readers smart phones wearable computers laptop computers and so forth may also be used. The user device is also configured to communicate with other devices and systems using wireless signaling . Thus the user may operate the user device in a mobile manner performing various operations in respective locations and at various times.

Also depicted are respective venues . Each of the venues may be a private commercial or government location or some other type of establishment. For non limiting illustration the venue may be a computer retailer the venue may be a coffee shop the venue may be a banking establishment and the venue may be a government services office. Other respective venue identities or types may also be considered. Further depicted is a park area which may also be considered a form of venue .

Respective wireless access points are also depicted associated with the venues respectively. The wireless access points may be configured to operate using one or more established wireless signaling protocols such as those in accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard 802.11. In one implementation each wireless access point is configured to communicate with respective user devices within a relatively close range such as about 20 meters or so. Other signaling protocols or operating ranges may also be used.

Thus each wireless access point is associated with or representative of the respective venue within which it is located. Each wireless access point is configured to couple or link one or more respective user devices with one or more networks by way of wireless signaling . Non limiting examples of such networks include the Internet or access thereto local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs and so forth

Also depicted is a cellular tower configured for bidirectional communication with correspondingly equipped user devices . Thus cellular phones smart phones some tablet computers and the like may utilize cellular communications or access various computer based services by way of the cellular tower . Further depicted is a navigational satellite . The navigational satellite may be part of a global navigation satellite system GNSS configured to provide wireless signals used by respective user devices in determining their present geographic locations. The GNSS may include the Global Positioning System GPS operated by the United States of America GLONASS operated by the Russian Federation Compass operated by the People s Republic of China Galileo operated by the European Union Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System IRNSS operated by the Republic of India and so forth.

Further depicted is a server configured to perform various operations in accordance with an executable program code. The server is also connected to the one or more networks such that the user device may communicate therewith by way of wireless signaling . The server may also be configured to perform one or more operations related to determining specific venues where respective user devices are located or are proximate to .

An illustrative operation is as follows a user operates a user device such as a tablet computer having both wireless and GNSS locating capabilities. The user device may operate a locating program as a background application. The locating program causes the user device to determine its location by way of signaling from a plurality of navigational satellites . The user device then issues a request to the server for information regarding nearby or proximate venues . Such a request is communicated by way of wireless signaling with the wireless access point and includes the just determined location and a predetermined distance value. For example the user device may request a listing of venues and their respective names within 125 feet of the present location.

The server responds to the request by accessing venue information stored within a data structure selecting information for those venues consistent with the location and distance or proximity criteria provided by the user device . The server then communicates the venue information back to the user device by way of wireless signaling .

The user device receives the information from the server and then acquires or surveys detectable wireless access points by way of respective wireless signaling . Signal strength values are measured and identifiers for each of the detectable wireless access points are also determined. In the present example it is assumed that the wireless access points and are detectable such that three respective signal strength and identifier data pairs are acquired.

A venue module of the user device then identifies one or more portions of interest within each of the three identifiers. For example each identifier is parsed such that one or more characters text strings or other portions or elements are identified or designated. These respective identifier portions are then compared with portions of the venue names for the venues in the interest of detecting character string word or other heuristic matches. Respective identifiers are associated with respective venues based on these matching or heuristic operations such that one or more identifier venue associations are made.

From one perspective identifier venue matches or associations are made by treating the selected identifier elements or portions and selected portions of the venue names as respective logical sets. Intersections unions or other commonalities are then sought between these respective sets in accordance with logical or mathematical theory. That is common memberships between the respective sets are searched for and identified. Therefore various automated matching operations may be performed using known logic methods or other heuristic techniques.

In the present example three respective associations are made such that the wireless access points and identifiers are associated with three venues and respectively. The venue module then assigns a confidence value or metric to each of the associations in accordance with the extent or success of the respective matching operations. That is the more thoroughly the portion or portions of a given identifier match a portion or portions of the associated venue name for the venue the greater the resulting confidence value. Thus each confidence value quantifies the likelihood that the corresponding association is correct.

The venue module of the user device then assigns score values to each of the associations based on a weighting or heuristic scheme. In one instance the corresponding signal strength and the confidence value for a given association are multiplied together and the resulting product is the score value for that association. That is to say Score Value Signal Strength Confidence Value . Other schemes or heuristic evaluation methods may also be used. The venue module then selects the greatest one of the score values and designates it as the most likely venue where the user device is presently located. In the present example it is assumed that the association including the venue received the greatest of the three respective score values and is selected as the most likely venue.

Concluding the present example the user device establishes communication with the wireless access point corresponding to the most likely venue . The user device then issues a request for related information or services offered by the venue in this case a coffee shop to a network associated with the wireless access point . The user device may receive a response including a menu of offered beverages or food items coupons or notices for daily specials access to an online shopping website hosted by the venue and so forth.

The user device may also communicate or identify the most likely venue as its present location to the server . The server may maintain a listing of device venue data indicating the instantaneous venues where respective user devices are located. The server may use this information to periodically provide new or updated information related to the respective venues or for other purposes. In one example a user device is located within the bank of venue . The server may note that the bank is going to close in 10 minutes and send an alert message to that effect to the corresponding user device for presentation to a user . Many other venue sensitive operations may also be performed accordingly.

The illustrative user device includes the venue module introduced above. The venue module may include one or more processors microcontrollers or other devices configured to perform various operations in accordance with executable program code. The venue module may also include executable program code stored within non transitory computer readable storage media CRSM . The venue module may further include electronic circuitry one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or other suitable resources and constituency and may be configured to communicate information or other signals with other aspects of the user device .

The user device may also include one or more processors configured to perform or control various operations of the user device according to executable program code. One or more of the processors may also be configured to communicate information data or other signals with the venue module .

The user device may also include one or more venue lists . Each venue list may include information regarding numerous venues such as venue names street addresses business identifier codes location coordinates such as latitude longitude and altitude previously determined wireless access point identifiers or other identifying information or data. Other information may also be included. The venue lists may be stored in CRSM within the user device and may be respectively acquired by way of requests issued to the server or other support services uploaded during a direct connection to an Internet based resource and so on.

The user device may further include heuristic data . The heuristic data may include data information previously identified wireless access points previously verified identifier venue associations or other content. The heuristic data may also include various mathematical or logical expressions data matching or comparison procedures or other heuristic techniques. The heuristic data may be used by the venue module during the association of respective identifiers with respective venues during the calculation of confidence values or score values and so forth. The heuristic data may be expanded or amended over time by virtue of installments provided by the server or another service in accordance with machine learning techniques as respective identifier venue associations are verified or cataloged or in other ways.

The illustrative user device is also configured for bidirectional communication with one or more wireless access points and with one or more cellular towers by way of respective wireless signaling . The user device is also configured to receive wireless signals from one or more respective navigational satellites . Thus the user device is equipped for respective wireless operations that may be used during venue identification or other operations.

Block determines an approximate location for a user device . For purposes of non limiting illustration the user device receives wireless signals from numerous navigational satellites and determines its geographic location to within some margin of error. For example the determined location may be accurate to within a radius of 33 feet. For purposes of this illustration the approximate location is expressed in terms of latitudinal and longitudinal coordinates such as 47.609207 degrees North by 122.326453 degrees West a location within Seattle Wash. USA. The approximate location may also be expressed in terms of a street address a rural route number an Internet protocol IP address for a known network access point and so forth.

Block accesses a stored list or acquires a list of nearby venues based on the approximate location . In the present illustration the user device accesses a venue list within CRSM and gathers information regarding respective venues within a predetermined distance of the approximate location . As depicted a total of six venues are determined to be within for instance 150 feet of the approximate location . These respective venues define or populate a venue list .

Block acquires nearby wireless access point signals and their respective identifiers. In the present illustration the user device detects four different wireless access points by way of their respective wireless signals . An identifier and a signal strength value are determined for each of the four respective wireless access points . For example a wireless access point includes an identifier of BurgerWiFi and signal strength of 68.5 units and so on for the other three detected wireless access points . The four respective identifiers and signal strength values collectively define nearby wireless access points .

These four respective wireless access points have detected signal strengths above some predetermined threshold value such as 2.0 units. Other signal strength selection or filtering criteria may also be used. At this point in the operation it is assumed that the four nearby wireless access points are associated with one or more of the venues of the venue list .

Block parses the identifiers and selects portions of interest. In the present illustration the respective identifiers of the four nearby wireless access points are parsed or otherwise processed by the venue module in accordance with a predetermined heuristic method such that portions of interest are identified or isolated. Each portion of interest is a character recognizable word or alphanumeric string that is evidentiary or descriptive in nature. For example the identifier BurgerWiFi is parsed as respective portions Burger and WiFi . The portion Burger is selected as a portion or element of interest. In turn the identifier HotCoffeeGuestWiFi is parsed as respective portions Hot Coffee Guest and WiFi . Therein the portions Hot and Coffee are selected as portions or elements of interest.

Other portions or aspects of the four respective identifiers may be ignored or excluded as being generic or otherwise non evidentiary with respect to associating that identifier with a particular venue . For example portions such as WiFi and Guest may be ignored or filtered out as providing little or no information useful in making an identifier venue association. The four parsed identifiers and their selected portions define an identifiers and portions list .

Block associates venue names with identifier portions and assigns score values based on signal strengths and confidence values. In the present illustration the venue module of the user device compares the selected portions from the identifiers and portions list with portions or aspects of the names in the venue list seeking word or string matches or in accordance with other heuristic criteria. For example the identifier portion Burger is a complete match for the word Burger in the venue name Burger Store . In another example the portions Hot and Coffee are complete matches for corresponding words in the venue name Hot Coffee . Similar matches for initials such as D and P in the venue name Dave s Pets are also detected and noted. As a result the four identifiers are respectively associated with four of the venues from the venue list as depicted by an associations list .

Each of the associations is assigned a confidence value based on the extent of the match or matches made between respective identifier portions and corresponding portions or aspects of the associated venue name. For example a relatively high confidence value is assigned to the association made between the identifier HotCoffeeGuestWiFi and the venue name Hot Coffee because two of the selected identifier portions were complete verbatim matches for words within that venue name. Contrastingly the association made between DPGuestWiFi and Dave s Pets was assigned a lesser confidence value due to the single letter only matches D and P there between.

Thereafter a score value is assigned to each of the four respective associations based on the signal strengths and the confidence values. In this example each score value is the arithmetical product of the corresponding signal strength and confidence values. Other score value methods or formulas may also be used. These four respective score values are depicted in the associations list .

Block selects the greatest score value and designates it as the most likely venue . In the present illustration the venue module selects the greatest score 63.0 as the most likely venue . This most likely venue is the venue where the user device is most likely to be presently located or closest to. Thus the user device is assumed to be located within the venue named Hot Coffee a retail coffee shop.

Block performs one or more actions based on the most likely venue . In the present illustration the user device automatically connects to the wireless access point identified as HotCoffeeGuestWiFi and issues a request for venue related information. Such a request may be answered with various kinds of information details on accessing available services and so on. Illustrative and non limiting examples of such venue related actions are as depicted. In one instance one or more food coupons are presented on a display of the user device . In another instance a menu of available beverages or food items is uploaded to the user device and so forth.

The process depicted in views and is directed to matching characters strings or recognizable words that the respective identifiers and the venue names have in common. Other types of heuristic matching may also be used in either making the associations or assigning confidence values thereto or both. In one approach the greater the number of characters in a selected identifier portion that matches a portion within a venue name the greater the resulting confidence value.

In yet another approach the venue module may access one or more previously established or verified identifier venue associations while looking for complete matches within the detected wireless access point identifiers. For instance some large scale commercial entities follow a single specific identifier format throughout all of their geographic locations. Other sorts of previously determined information or patterning may also be used while matching or associating identifiers with respective venues.

An illustrative confidence table includes respective associations made between wireless access point identifiers and venue names. For example the identifier HotCoffeeGuestWiFi is associated with the venue Hot Coffee and so on. Confidence values are also depicted each corresponding to one of the associations. For example the association of HotCoffeeGuestWiFi with Hot Coffee has been assigned a confidence value of 0.94. Thus the confidence table includes four respective confidence values .

An illustrative score table includes the respective associations as well as corresponding wireless signal strength value for each. For example the wireless access point having the identifier HotCoffeeGuestWiFi has a measured signal strength of 67.0 units. The confidence value of 0.94 corresponds to this same association. Score values are also depicted for each of the associations .

Each score is determined by multiplying the signal strength by the confidence value for the given association . For example the association including the venue name Hot Coffee is assigned a score value of 63.0. As depicted respective scores of 63.0 49.3 15.8 and 6.3 are assigned to the four associations .

Further depicted is the most likely venue which is selected as that venue corresponding to the greatest score . As depicted the venue named Hot Coffee corresponds to the greatest score of 63.0. Thus Hot Coffee is selected as that venue where the corresponding user device is most likely located or nearest to .

A venue is depicted as an ice cream shop. The venue includes or hosts a wireless access point configured such that a user device may communicate with one or more networks or servers and so forth. Also depicted is a venue presented as a department store. Notably the venue occupies significantly greater area than that of the venue . The venue includes three respective wireless access points and distributed there within.

A user is using a user device and is located outside of but proximate to the venue . For purposes of illustration it is assumed that the user device is within detection range of the three wireless access points as hosted by the department store venue . It is also assumed that the user device is within detection range of the wireless access point of the venue having an identifier such as IceCreamVisitorWiFi .

Additionally it is assumed that the three respective identifiers of the wireless access points conform to a common format such as DeptStore1WiFi DeptStore2WiFi and DeptStore3WiFi . The venue module of the user device may be configured to recognize or conclude that each of these identifiers corresponds to the same venue . The venue module may be further configured to use this conclusion when making the respective identifier venue associations . For instance a count of the number of detected wireless access points apparently corresponding to the same venue may be used in weighting or averaging the respective signal strengths such that a single collective association is made. Other operations may also be performed in view of multiple wireless access points corresponding to the same venue .

The venue module of the user device may then assign and consider respective confidence values for two associations rather than four toward selecting either the venue or as the most likely venue where the user device is located or is most proximate to. Such an averaged or weighted association and selection scheme may help to resolve ambiguities due to equidistance disproportionate wireless access point counts and so forth.

A venue is also depicted as a book store. The venue includes two wireless access points and . Also depicted is a venue presented as a coffee shop located within the area of the venue . The venue includes a wireless access point there within. A user device is associated with a user and is located within the venue somewhat proximate to the venue . For purposes of illustration the user device is within detection range of all three respective wireless access points and .

The depicted location of the user device gives rise to a potential ambiguity as to selecting the venue or the venue as the most likely venue where the user device is located. The venue module of the user device may be configured to handle this sort of scenario by averaging the detected signal strengths but such an approach may result in the false conclusion that the user device is located within the coffee shop that is venue .

Alternatively the venue module may be configured to proceed by making three respective associations identifying both the book store venue and the coffee shop venue . Thereafter heuristics may be applied so as to conclude that the coffee shop is located within the book store based on previously identified scenarios involving the respective operators of the venues and . That is these respective commercial entities are known to cooperate or associate in the depicted manner. The venue module may then conclude that the user device is located within the venue but is not within the venue based on comparing the signal strength of the wireless access point against a minimum threshold value. That is the user device is not considered to be within the venue unless the corresponding signal strength is greater than predetermined threshold value as would a result from being in close proximity to the wireless access point . Other heuristic or selection making techniques may also be used.

The user device may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the user device to communicate with various other user devices other computing devices the server web based resources and so on. The I O interfaces may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a GNSS receiver a keyboard mouse and so forth. The I O devices may include various navigational resources such as one or more gyroscopes a compass a radio navigation receiver or other elements or devices respectively configured for use in determining an approximate location for the user device . The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated within the user device or they may be externally placed.

The user device may also include one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications with other user devices web based resources servers routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth.

The user device may also include one or more batteries for providing electrical power during normal operations. The battery or batteries may be rechargeable or disposable in nature. Other portable energy sources such as photovoltaic cells and so forth may also be used. The user device may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the user device .

The user device includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the user device . The memory may include at least one operating system OS module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may be configured to operate with information encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

The memory may also store one or more of the application modules . Non limiting examples of the applications modules include a word processing application a spreadsheet application a technical drawing or illustrating application a web browsing application a portable document viewing application and so on. The memory may also include the venue module as described above. The memory may further store a communication module such that wireless signaling may be communicated to and from the user device .

The memory may also store an inertial navigation module configured to provide location data or information based upon measured displacements of the user device relative to a known point of origin. The inertial navigation module may include one or more accelerometers electronic circuitry a dedicated processor executable program code or other constituency.

The inertial navigation module may be further configured to reestablish a new point of origin from time to time in the interest of avoiding excessive cumulative error when such a new origin is verifiable by user input or by automatic techniques. For example coupling the user device to a home based network may trigger the inertial navigation module to automatically establish a home address as a new point of origin. The memory may also include one or more other modules . Non limiting examples of the other modules may include cellular communications circuitry a watchdog or other timer a radio receiver ports or resources for wired communications and so forth.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other user devices or computing devices including servers network attached storage apparatus and so forth.

The datastore may store one or more venue lists as described above. Thus respective venue lists may correspond to various locations and so forth. The datastore may also store heuristic data as described above. Such heuristic data may include data information previously verified identifier venue associations or other content. The heuristic data may also include mathematical or logical expressions data comparison procedures or other techniques accessed or used by the venue module . The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

The server may include one or more I O interface s to allow the processor s or other portions of the server to communicate with the user devices with other servers or computing devices and so on. The I O interface s may comprise I2C SPI USB RS 232 and so forth.

The I O interface s may couple to one or more I O devices . The I O devices may include one or more input devices such as a keyboard mouse and so forth. The I O devices may also include output devices such as one or more of a display audio speakers haptic output devices and so forth. In some embodiments the I O devices may be physically incorporated with the server or they may be externally placed.

The server may also include one or more communication interface s . The communication interfaces are configured to provide communications between the server and the user devices other servers or network based services routers wireless access points and so forth. The communication interfaces may include wireless functions devices configured to couple to one or more networks including PANs LANs WLANs WANs and so forth. The server may also include one or more busses or other internal communications hardware or software that allow for the transfer of data between the various modules and components of the server .

The server includes one or more memories . The memory comprises one or more CRSM. The memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the operation of the server . The memory may include at least one operating system module . Respective OS modules are configured to manage hardware devices such as the I O interfaces the I O devices the communication interfaces and provide various services to applications or modules executing on the processors .

Also stored in the memory may be one or more of the following modules. These modules may be executed as foreground applications background tasks and so forth. A user interface module may be configured to provide one or more application programming interfaces. The user interface module may also generate or provide one or more user input devices or user selection devices to a user device . Such user interfaces may be encoded as hypertext markup language HTML files extensible markup language XML files or in another suitable format or language. The user interface module is configured to accept inputs and send outputs using the I O interfaces the communication interfaces or both.

A communication module is configured to support communication with various user devices one or more other servers computing devices or apparatus and so forth using the one or more networks . In some implementations the communication module may support encrypted communications. For example hypertext transport protocol secured HTTPS or transport layer security TLS may be supported.

The memory may also include a venue assistance module . The venue assistance module may be configured and resourced so as to perform one or more operations toward determining a most likely venue in response to a user device request. The venue assistance module may also respond to requests for nearby venue lists construct such venue lists in accordance with requests received from respective user devices and so forth. The venue assistance module may perform other actions or services as well.

The memory may also include one or more other modules . For example a service support module may request or access particular resources on behalf of a user device . Such a module may seek to acquire or update venue related information on an ongoing basis. Other modules or functionalities may also be implemented.

The memory may also include a datastore to store information. The datastore may use a flat file database linked list tree executable code or other data structure to store the information. In some implementations the datastore or a portion of the datastore may be distributed across one or more other devices including servers network attached storage devices and so forth.

The datastore may store one or more venue lists . Such venue lists may be provided in response to requests by respective client devices may be accessed by the venue assistance module or applied to other purposes. The datastore may also store device venue data indicative of various venues where respective user devices are presently located. The datastore may also store other data . For example the other data may include textual graphic or audio data to be provided to a requesting user device one or more scripts to automate respective functions and so on. The other data may also include one or more data structures that may be queried modified amended and so forth.

Block determines at a user device a location using a wireless resource. For purposes of a present example a user device receives wireless signals from one or more cellular towers . Through a process of triangulation a venue module of the user device determines an approximate location for the user device as a street address such as 123 Main Street City State USA. In an alternative operation a server or other resource of a cellular communications service determines an approximate location for the user device based on signal correspondences with two or more cellular towers . The server or other service then communicates the approximate location to the user device . Other similar or varying techniques may also be used.

Block identifies one or more venues proximate to the location of the user device . In the present example the venue module accesses one or more venue lists stored within the user device and identifies numerous venues within a predetermined distance of the present location. For instance the venue module may identify six respective venues within 150 feet of the location collectively defining a venue list .

Block acquires wireless signal strengths and identifiers for detected wireless access points . In the present example the venue module acquires or surveys wireless signaling provided by detectable wireless access points thereabout. Specifically the user device measures a signal strength and determines an identifier for each of the detected wireless access points whose signals exceed a predetermine threshold value. For purposes of illustration a listing of nearby wireless access points is generated including signal strengths and identifiers for four distinct wireless access points .

Block parses the identifiers to determine one or more portions of interest. In the present example the venue module processes the four respective identifiers from the nearby wireless access points applying heuristics word recognition or other techniques so as to select characters text strings or other portions of interest. Additionally respective portions of the identifiers deemed to be of little or no identification value are ignored. For example an identifier SMotelWiFi was acquired during the operation of Block wherein the parsing and determination yields S and Motel as portions of interest and wherein the portion WiFi is deemed generic and not useful for further identification purposes. In this illustration the parsing and determination process yields the identifiers and portions list .

Block generates associations between the identifier portions and respective venues and assigns respective confidence values . In the present example the venue module compares the selected portions from the identifiers and portions list with the respective venue names seeking partial or whole word matches matching initials or abbreviations or using other heuristics to identify various similarities.

For instance the selected portion Motel is a word match within the venue name Super Motel and so on. Respective associations are made between the identifiers and the venues by way of the comparisons or heuristics. The venue module also uses the extent of these respective matches or other heuristic techniques to calculate and assign a confidence value or metric to each of the associations . In this illustration the confidence table is the result of these respective operations.

Block assigns scores to the respective associations based on the wireless signal strengths and the confidence values . In the present example the venue module assigns a score to each association by multiplying the corresponding signal strength by the corresponding confidence value . For instance in the case of the association between SMotelWiFi and Super Motel the corresponding score is calculated as 8.6 0.73 6.3. The resulting scores and other data are used to populate the score table .

Block selects the greatest score as indicative of a most likely venue for the user device . In the present example the venue module selects the greatest score 63.0 as indicative of the most likely venue that the user device is presently located. In the present illustration the venue named Hot Coffee a beverage and food service retailer is designated as the most likely venue .

Block performs one or more actions in accordance with the most likely venue . In the present example the user device uses the just designated most likely venue Hot Coffee to perform or trigger one or more actions. For instance a menu or beverages or food items may be requested by way of a corresponding wireless access point and uploaded to the user device the user device may display one or more previously uploaded coupons and so on. Other actions may also be performed.

Block determines at a user device a location based on a presently used wireless access point . For purposes of a present example a user device is communicating with a particular wireless access point which provides its IP address as 111.22.333.4 . A venue module of the user device then communicates with one or more Internet based resources to acquire location for the presently used IP address. Such a location may be given for example as global coordinates or a street address and so on.

Block requests a listing of venues from a server based on the location and a predetermined distance or range. In the present example the user device issues a request for nearby venues to a server the request including the location acquired at block and a predetermined distance or radius of interest. For instance 200 feet about the location. The request is communicated by wireless signaling from the user device to the presently used wireless access point which then sends the request on to the server by way of one or more networks .

The server responds to the request by accessing one or more venue lists stored therein selecting numerous venues in accordance with the location and predetermined distance criteria. The server then communicates these venues that is names locations or other information related thereto back to the user device by way of wireless signaling and the presently used wireless access point . In the present illustration the server communicates that a book store venue and a coffee shop venue match the requested criteria.

Block acquires wireless signal strengths and identifiers for detected wireless access points . In the present example the venue module acquires or surveys wireless signaling provided by three detectable wireless access points and . Specifically the user device measures a signal strength and determines an identifier for each of the detected wireless access points .

Block associates the identifiers with respective nearby venues . In the present example the venue module processes the respective identifiers from the wireless access points applying word recognition string matching heuristics or other techniques so as to select characters text strings or other portions of interest. Additionally portions of the identifiers deemed to be of little or no identification value are ignored.

Block counts the number of identifiers that likely correspond to the same venue or venues . In the present example the venue module notes that the wireless access points and have respective identifiers as BookGuest1WiFi and BookGuest2WiFi . The venue module heuristically concludes that these respective identifiers by virtue of their single character distinctions 1 and 2 correspond to the same venue.

Block associates particular identifiers with particular venues and assigns respective confidence values to the associations . In the present example the venue module compares selected portions of respective venue names seeking partial or whole word matches matching abbreviations or using other heuristics to identify various similarities. The venue module thereby determines that the wireless access points and both correspond to a venue named Book Store and that the wireless access points corresponds to a venue named Coffee Shop .

Further in the present illustration the venue module also determines using previously determined associations or business information that Book Store and Coffee Shop are cooperative commercial entities wherein Coffee Shop is likely located within Book Store . The venue module also assigns confidence values to each of the associations based on the extent of the respective identifier portion venue name matches.

Block assign scores to respective associations based on counts signal strengths and confidence values . In the present example the venue module assigns weighted scores to associations corresponding to the wireless access points and in accordance with the assumption that these correspond to the same venue Book Store . A respective score is also assigned to the association between the wireless access point and the venue Coffee Shop .

The venue module further weights or adjusts the respective scores in accordance with the conclusion that Coffee Shop is located within Book Store . Specifically the venue module adjusts or reduces the score corresponding to the venue because a greater signal strength than that measured at block would be expected if the user device were actually located within the Coffee Shop .

Block selects the greatest score as the most likely venue of the user device . In the present example the venue module selects the score assigned to the association including the identifier for the wireless access point one of two such wireless access points associated with the venue Book Store . Thus the venue Book Store is selected as the most likely venue where the user device is presently located.

Block performs one or more actions in accordance with the most likely venue of the user device . In the present example the user device uses the just designated most likely venue Book Store to perform or trigger one or more actions. For instance a floor plan describing the locations of various books or other materials based on author or subject may be uploaded to the user device . In another instance the user device may request sales or present promotional offerings from a server associated with Book Store . Other actions may also be performed.

Block acquires wireless signal strengths and identifiers for wireless access points detected by a user device . In one example a user device acquires signal strengths and identifiers for wireless access points and which are within detectable range of the user device . As such the user device performs a survey of the detectable RF space so as determine what wireless access points are thereabout and does so without use or determination of a present location.

Block associates one or more respective venues with the respective identifiers. In the present example the venue module uses partial or whole word matches abbreviation to word correspondences or other heuristics to identify various similarities between the detected identifiers and known venue names. For instance the venue module may compare the just acquired identifiers with a stored list of previously recognized identifiers or with a list of identifiers provide by a server . The venue module thereby associates the wireless access points and with a computer store a coffee shop and a bank respectively. Thus three particular associations are made.

Block generates a list of nearby venues based on the associations . In the present example the venue module aggregates the three associations made at above as a list of nearby venues such that the respective nearby venues may be considered collectively.

Block compares the list of nearby venues with a master list of venues . In the present example the venue module compares the list of proximate venues with a master list or aggregation of respective venues . Such a master list may include respective venue names geographical coordinates street addresses business identifiers or other information for numerous venues within a potentially vast geographical area such as all of North America or all of Western Europe and so on. Master lists corresponding to areas of other relative sizes may also be used.

Specifically the venue module searches the master list in an attempt to locate three venues a computer store a coffee shop and a bank that are proximate to each other. The venue module may also search the master list for one or more distributions or arrangements of such venues based on the signal strengths of the wireless access points and .

Block identifies the nearby venues as specific venues based on the comparison. In the present example the venue module has found three specific venues and within the master list that are proximate to each other and consistent with the computer store coffee shop and bank of the present associations . The venue module associates the particular venue names street addresses and other information provided by the master list with the nearby venues . Thus the nearby venues are now specifically identified as the venues and respectively.

Block performs one or more actions based on the specific venue identities. In the present example the user device may display sales offerings for the computer Store venue upload a menu of beverages or food items related to the coffee shop venue and so forth. Other actions corresponding to the specifically identified venues may also be performed.

The method just described above is directed to identifying venues proximate to a user device without using a location as a starting point. From one perspective the identifiers of detected wireless access points define a group or constellation of venues about the user device . Thereafter a master listing of venues is searched in an attempt to identify a similar or matching group wherein the respective venues are proximate to each other in some geographical place. Such a search may yield more than one candidate group wherein other heuristic or contextual information such as a last known location may be used to select one of the groups in making the venue identifications.

Those having ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that certain steps or operations illustrated in the figures above can be eliminated or taken in an alternate order. Moreover the methods described above may be implemented as one or more software programs for a computer system and are encoded in a computer readable storage medium as instructions executable on one or more processors.

Embodiments may be provided as a computer program product including a non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The computer readable storage medium can be any one of an electronic storage medium a magnetic storage medium an optical storage medium a quantum storage medium and so forth. For example the computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of physical media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals transferred by one or more networks. For example the transitory machine readable signal may comprise transmission of software by the Internet.

Separate instances of these programs can be executed on or distributed across separate computer systems. Thus although certain steps have been described as being performed by certain devices software programs processes or entities this need not be the case and a variety of alternative implementations will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally those having ordinary skill in the art readily recognize that the techniques described above can be utilized in a variety of devices environments and situations. Although the present disclosure is written with respect to specific embodiments and implementations various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

