---

title: Processing of a coarse location request for a mobile device
abstract: A location proxy server receives a network-initiated location request. The location proxy server determines the location request is a coarse location request for a mobile device. The location proxy server forwards the coarse location request for the mobile device to a location server. The location server completes a control plane function to determine the location of the mobile device and provides a location answer to the location proxy server. The location proxy server provides the location answer to the application server initiating the location request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09439163&OS=09439163&RS=09439163
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09439163
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131223
---
In recent years mobile wireless communications have become increasingly popular. Presently mobile devices such as laptops personal digital assistants PDAs smartphones cell phones tablet PCs and other portable computers are rapidly gaining popularity. Mobile devices are available with interfaces enabling communications via mobile networks or local area network LAN wireless access points hereinafter wireless hotspot networks or hotspots . Currently mobile networks are operational that conform with the fourth generation 4G standards such as the Long Term Evolution LTE standard. These mobile networks provide voice communication messaging email and internet access for example by using radio frequency communication. Communications via hotpots may occur using a communications standard such as IEEE 802.11 WiFi network type wireless access points.

In contrast to current 4G LTE networks providing communications services via packet based infrastructure legacy mobile wireless communications networks provide voice communications services via circuit switched voice capability. Such legacy networks have well established techniques for responding to a network initiated coarse location request from a commercial application server for a mobile device capable of utilizing the legacy network e.g. 3G and or 3G 4G mobile device . Emerging mobile devices however may only be capable of utilizing the current 4G LTE networks and lack the capability to utilize any legacy network. Current 4G LTE networks may not have well established techniques for processing a location request from a commercial application server for a mobile device only capable of utilizing a current 4G LTE network. For example a carrier may operate both a legacy network and a 4G LTE network. The carrier in this example may have deployed the necessary infrastructure to provide location services related to the legacy network but may not have deployed the necessary infrastructure to provide similar location services for the 4G LTE network.

Thus a need exists for techniques for processing a location request from a commercial application server for a mobile device only capable of utilizing a current 4G LTE network.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The examples described in detail below relate to techniques for processing a coarse location request from a commercial application server. In one example an application server desires to learn the general location of a mobile device. The application server for example provides news weather and or other localized content and is configured to deliver location related content to the mobile device. In order to determine the location of the mobile device and customize the location related content the application server submits a commercial location request to the mobile wireless communication network to which the owner of the mobile device subscribes for mobile communication services.

Such location request is initially submitted to a service control gateway SCG of the mobile wireless communication network. The SCG for example validates that the application server may submit the location request. The SCG further determines for example if the owner of the mobile device has set the appropriate privacy settings to allow the location request. Once the SCG validates and authorizes the location request the SCG forwards the location request to a location proxy server LPS of the mobile wireless communication network.

The LPS in this example determines whether the location request is a fine or coarse location request. The threshold between fine and coarse location requests is for example a configurable parameter within the LPS. A fine location request may for example require requested accuracy within 1000 meters of the mobile device. Such fine location request for example typically requires interaction with an application and or some other process executing on the mobile device that determines the specific location of the mobile device within a relatively short distance range. This direct interaction with an application and or other process executing on the mobile device is commonly referred to as user plane. A coarse location request may for example allow requested accuracy equal to or greater than 1000 meters of the mobile device. The coarse location request for example is satisfied by a location response indicating the geographic center of the cell currently serving the mobile device. The position of the mobile device may be anywhere within the radio coverage area of the cellular transceiver having the cell identifier e.g. with a range up to several thousand meters from the cell center.

Our examples relate to networks that offer the latest mobile wireless technology as well as one or more legacy mobile wireless technologies. In an example supporting 4G and 3G once the LPS determines the location request is a coarse location request the LPS determines for example if the mobile device is capable of only utilizing a fourth generation 4G long term evolution LTE network. Such determination in this example may be based on the presence of the mobile directory number MDN in a 4G device database of the LPS. If the mobile device is capable of only utilizing a 4G LTE network based on the MDN of the mobile device being in the 4G device database the LPS forwards the coarse location request to a 4G location server. The 4G location server will then utilize elements of the 4G LTE network such as a mobility management entity MME and a home location register HLR to determine the cell identifier of the cell currently serving the mobile device. This use of network elements as opposed to directly interacting with an application and or other process executing on the mobile device or user plane invokes a control plane function. Thus in our example the LPS utilizes a control plane function via the 4G location server to determine a response to a coarse location request for a 4G only capable mobile device from a commercial application server.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below. is a functional block diagram of an example of a system that supports various mobile communication services and which may implement processing for a location request from a commercial application server.

The illustrated system services any number of mobile devices including the illustrated mobile devices . Each of the mobile devices may be a laptop a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a tablet PC or another portable device designed to communicate via a wireless network. Each of the mobile devices in our example corresponds to a smartphone or tablet itself having network communication capability. Although not shown for simplicity the present location request techniques also may be used with other types of devices for example mobile broadband devices like Jetpacks or USB dongles that provide service connectivity for other types of data devices e.g. non mobile wireless computers or the like and an increasing variety of mobile network connected devices e.g. cameras e Readers etc. that themselves may lack the hardware or programming to support a browser type user interface over the wireless network.

A carrier offering 3G and 4G mobile services operates a network having equipment forming a portion of the network supporting 3G services and equipment forming a portion of the network supporting 4G services. Although various network architectures may be used to form the network with the two portions the drawing shows an arrangement using two networks operated by one mobile carrier. Hence the illustrated system example includes a mobile communication network in this case operated in accordance with 4G long term evolution LTE standards. The illustrated system example also includes a mobile communication network in this case operated in accordance with one or more legacy network standards e.g. code division multiple access CDMA Global System for Mobile GSM communication etc. . A single carrier for example operates both of the mobile networks such that mobile network and mobile network are each portions of one carrier network within the system . Mobile networks may provide mobile telephone communications as well as Internet data communication services. For example mobile networks may connect to the public switched telephone network PSTN and public packet switched data communication networks such as the Internet . Data communications via mobile networks provided for users of devices like may support a variety of services such as communications of text and multimedia messages e mail web browsing streaming or downloading content etc. with network connected equipment such as a server and or laptop computer in the drawing. Although the networks provide access to data services offered by a variety of types of equipment identified as servers for purposes of an example of a service using device location we will use as an example of an application server. Voice communication also may involve transport via the Internet using voice over Internet Protocol VoIP technologies. Mobile devices may connect to mobile networks through a cellular base station or eNodeB two of which appear in the drawing by way of example. Base station and eNodeB each operate in accordance with a different network standard as described in greater detail below.

The networks provide mobile wireless communications services to mobile devices as well as to other mobile devices not shown for example via a number of base stations BSs and or eNodeBs depending on the network standard e.g. LTE or legacy supported by the mobile devices. In the examples mobile device contains one or more elements that support legacy network standards e.g. CDMA and or GSM and may contain one or more elements that support the LTE network standard however mobile device only contains one or more elements that support the LTE network standard. In the example of base station and eNodeB may cover the same geographical area such that mobile device and mobile device may both be serviced in the same geographical area respectively by base station and eNodeB . Alternatively or in addition base station or other base stations not shown and eNodeB or other eNodeBs not shown may each cover different geographical areas such that mobile device may only be serviced when geographically proximate to base station or one of the other base stations and mobile device may only be serviced when geographically proximate to eNodeB or one of the other eNodeBs.

In some examples when mobile device supports both LTE and legacy network standards mobile device will be serviced when geographically proximate either base station or eNodeB . In addition when mobile device is geographically proximate to both base station and eNodeB e.g. when base station and eNodeB cover the same geographical area mobile device may receive some services via base station and some services via eNodeB and or may receive service interchangeably between base station and eNodeB . In the examples however mobile device only supports the LTE network standard and only receives service via eNodeB . Alternatively mobile device may support both the LTE network standard and one or more legacy network standards however mobile device is only capable of being serviced either by base station or eNodeB even if both base station and eNodeB cover the same geographical area.

The illustrated system can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the overall network may include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements. A regional portion of the network such as that serving mobile devices can include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities.

Physical elements of a RAN of mobile network operated by one of the mobile service providers or carriers include a number of base stations represented in the example by the base station BS . Although not separately shown such a base station can include a base transceiver system BTS which can communicate via an antennae system at the site of base station and over the airlink with one or more of mobile device when the mobile devices are within range. Each base station can include a BTS coupled to several antennae mounted on a radio tower within a coverage area often referred to as a cell. The BTS is the part of the radio network that sends and receives RF signals to from the mobile device that is served by the base station . Such RAN encompassing base station operates in accordance with a legacy network standard e.g. CDMA and or GSM .

Alternatively or in addition physical elements of a 4G LTE RAN of mobile network include a number of nodes referred to as eNodeBs represented in the example by the eNodeB . Such eNodeB implements similar wireless link and routing control purposes as base station but operates in accordance with the more modern LTE network standard sometimes referred to as 4G and or 4G LTE. Packet routing and control functions may be implemented in packet routers and or associated server platforms in the radio access network RAN or in many cases in elements of an IP Multimedia Service IMS core network not shown separately coupled to some number of 4G RANs although such routing and control element s are generically included in the broad class of devices that may be used to implement the network functionality discussed here.

The radio access networks can also include a traffic network represented generally by the clouds at which carries the user communications and data for the mobile devices between the base station and or eNodeB and other elements with or through which the mobile devices communicate. The networks can also include other elements that support functionality such as messaging service messages and voice communications. Specific elements of the networks for carrying the voice and data traffic and for controlling various aspects of the calls or sessions through the networks are omitted here for simplicity. It will be understood that the various network elements can communicate with each other and other aspects of the illustrated system and other networks e.g. the PSTN not shown and the Internet either directly or indirectly.

The carrier will also operate a number of systems that provide ancillary functions in support of the communications services and or application services provided through the system and those elements communicate with other nodes or elements of the system via one or more packet data networks . Generally such systems are part of or connected for communication via the packet data network . It should be apparent however that systems outside of the packet data network could serve the same functions as well. Examples of such systems in this case operated by the network service provider as part of the overall network system which communicate through the packet data network include one or more location proxy servers one or more mobile position centers MPCs for locating a mobile device one or more 4G location servers for locating a mobile device and a related one or more service control gateways . Billing and provisioning systems discussed later in more detail may also communicate via network .

A mobile device communicates over the air with a base station and through the traffic network for various voice and data communications e.g. through the Internet with a server such as application server . Similarly a mobile device communicates over the air with an eNodeB and through the traffic network for various voice and data communications e.g. through the Internet with a server such as the application server . If the application server desires to determine the location of mobile device or mobile device e.g. when location related information is requested by or otherwise to be sent to a mobile device the server may utilize the techniques for processing a location request from a commercial application server as described in greater detail below.

Mobile network includes one or more home location registers HLRs and one or more mobile switching centers MSCs with which the one or more MPCs interacts to complete a location determination such as described in greater detail in relation to . HLR is a database of customer profile records and subscribers mobile devices currently authorized to utilize services provided by mobile network . MSC is the element within mobile network that actually provides services via base station to mobile device .

Mobile network similarly includes one or more home subscriber server HSS and one or more mobility management entities MMEs with which the one or more 4G location servers interacts to complete a location determination such as described in greater detail in relation to . HSS in the LTE network provides similar functionality to HLR in the legacy network . Likewise although MME in the LTE network does not provide the same call switching as MSC in the legacy network the MME does provide similar control and management functionality to the MSC .

4G location server is for example a secure user plane location SUPL server. SUPL is an IP based protocol used by Assisted global positioning system GPS to facilitate receiving GPS satellite information quickly. 4G location server includes for example a Gateway Mobile Location Center G MLC function and an Enhanced Serving Mobile Location Center E SMLC function. The G MLC is for example a component within the 4G location server responsible for receiving a coarse location request from the LPS initiating a control plane function within mobile network to determine the location of mobile device and sending a location answer in response to the location request to the LPS . The E SMLC is for example a component within the 4G location server responsible for receiving a location request containing a cell identifier from the MME determining a location estimate of the cell identified by the cell identifier e.g. center latitude and center longitude of the cell and providing the location estimate to the MME in a location response.

Application server is for example an application server that provides news weather and or other localized content to mobile devices . Such content for example is customized based on the general location of mobile devices . In one example the application may be a weather application and the localized content may be the weather for the city in which mobile devices are currently located. In another example the application may be a news application and the localized content may be a news flash related to the local area in which mobile devices are currently located. The application server may provide such content upon request from a mobile device or other user terminal or the application server may push content to a mobile device e.g. as event notifications . The application server may be operated by the carrier that operates the networks . Alternatively the application server may be operated by a third party i.e. an entity other than the carrier and the mobile device user s .

Application server in order to customize content to be delivered to one of mobile devices may generate a location request of either a first or second type for one of mobile devices . In one example application server only needs to know the general location of one of mobile devices and submits a location request of a first type. In another example application server needs to know the specific location of one of mobile devices and submits a location request of a second type. The location request of the first type is for example a coarse location request. The location request of the second type is for example a fine location request.

A coarse location request is a location request with a requested location accuracy e.g. enhanced quality of position or eqop equal to or greater than 1000 meters. Such coarse location request may be fulfilled by providing a position description pd related to the cell identifier of a cell currently serving one of mobile devices . The pd is an extensible markup language XML based field in a standard location immediate answer message that provides a geographically based description of the position of a mobile device such as mobile devices e.g. a circle with a particular radius and a center at a particular location . In response to a coarse location request the pd contains for example a description of the geographic center of the cell currently serving one of mobile devices . The application server may then utilize the geographic description in the pd to customize the location related content e.g. to identify a region and deliver content filtered to correspond to that region.

The fine location request is a location request with a location accuracy e.g. eqop less than 1000 meters. Such fine location request is fulfilled by providing a relatively precise geographic description of the location of the mobile device as opposed to the cell currently serving the mobile device in the pd e.g. latitude and longitude of the mobile device .

Application server submits the location request for either the first or second type for example to the SCG via Parlay X Web Services application programming interfaces APIs . Parlay X specifications provide a set of standard Web service APIs that allow application servers such as application server to enable innovative applications services using the capabilities of the mobile communications network such as mobile networks .

The SCG receives the location request from the application server and validates for example that the application server is authorized to submit the location request. In one example as described in greater detail below the location request contains an identifier of the application server and the SCG compares the identifier contained in the request with a list of authorized identifiers. If the SCG is unable to validate the location request e.g. the identifier contained in the request is not found in the authorized identifiers list the request is denied. The SCG may for example notify the application server that the application server is not authorized to submit any request or the SCG may provide a generic failure notification. Alternatively the SCG may for example simply discard the request without any notice to application server . The SCG in this example also verifies that privacy settings related to the owner of one of mobile devices allow the location request. If the privacy settings do not allow the location request the SCG denies the request. In a similar fashion as the failed validation above the SCG may notify the application server that privacy settings do not allow the request the SCG may provide a generic failure notice or the SCG may simply discard the request without any notice to application server . If the SCG validates and verifies the location request the SCG forwards the request to the LPS .

The LPS in this example receives the location request from the SCG . The LPS as described in greater detail in relation to below then determines whether the location request is a coarse or fine location request. If the location request is a coarse location request the LPS also determines as described further below whether the location request is for a mobile device that supports communication via a legacy network such as mobile device or for a mobile device that only supports communication via a 4G LTE network such as mobile device . If the coarse location request is for a mobile device that supports communication via a legacy network e.g. mobile device the LPS forwards the request to the MPC which interacts with the HLR and MSC to determine the cell identifier of the cell within which mobile device is currently located. If on the other hand the coarse location request is for a mobile device that only supports communication via a 4G LTE network e.g. mobile device the LPS forwards the request to the 4G location server which as described in greater detail in relation to below interacts with the HSS and the MME to determine the cell identifier of the cell within which mobile device is currently located.

As described above and in greater detail below in relation to the LPS contains or has other access to a 4G device database that helps determine whether a mobile device supports communication via a legacy network e.g. mobile device or only supports communication via a 4G LTE network e.g. mobile device . The 4G device database contains a record for each 4G LTE only device such as mobile device . The record includes the mobile directory number MDN or mobile subscriber integrated services digital network number MSISDN of the mobile device the international mobile subscriber identity IMSI related to the mobile device the integrated circuit identifier ICCID of the subscriber identity module SIM in the mobile device the make and model of the mobile device features supported by the mobile device e.g. voice over LTE VoLTE or data only as well as other information related to the mobile device . When the owner of mobile device for example first acquires and desires to activate mobile device the owner will contact a customer service representative of the mobile wireless communication network . The customer service representative will activate the mobile device with services in the billing system and the billing system requests provisioning system to provision and activate mobile device . Once mobile device is provisioned and activated by provisioning system provisioning system sends the information related to mobile device to the LPS for inclusion in the 4G device database.

In step the LPS receives a location request as described in relation to above. In step the LPS determines if the location request is a fine or a coarse location request as described above. A location request contains among other fields an enhanced quality of position eqop field that defines the accuracy of the request in meters. As described above an eqop value less than 1000 meters indicates a fine location request and an eqop value equal to or greater than 1000 meters indicates a coarse location request. Thus in step the LPS for example determines whether the eqop value is less than 1000 meters or equal to or greater than 1000 meters.

If the eqop value is less than 1000 meters then the LPS in step completes a user plane location identification to determine the fine location of the mobile device e.g. mobile device or mobile device . Such user plane location identification utilizes an application or other process executing on the mobile devices to acquire the specific location of the mobile device e.g. mobile device or mobile device within an appropriately small distance range of accuracy. The application or other process executing on the mobile devices is for example a secure user plane location SUPL agent.

If the eqop value is equal to or greater than 1000 meters then the LPS in step checks the 4G device database to determine if the mobile device e.g. mobile device or mobile device supports communication via a legacy network or only communication via the 4G LTE network. If a record in the 4G device database corresponds to the MDN and or other information of the mobile device e.g. mobile device contained in the location request the LPS invokes a control plane function through mobile network by forwarding the coarse location request to the 4G location server in step . If on the other hand no record in the 4G device database corresponds to the MDN and or other information of the mobile device e.g. mobile device contained in the location request the LPS invokes a control plane function through mobile network by forwarding the coarse location request to the MPC in step .

In one example the application server desires to know the general location of mobile device . In step application server submits a location request to the SCG . Application server as described above utilizes Parlay X Web Services APIs to submit the location request. The location request is for example a standard location immediate request SLIR . The SLIR includes among other information the MDN of mobile device client information related to the application server and an eqop value. The SCG refers to for example the client information related to the application server in order to perform the validation as described above in relation to . After validating and verifying the request as described above the SCG forwards the location request to the LPS in step . After determining the location request is a coarse location request and determining mobile device is a 4G LTE only capable mobile device the LPS forwards the location request to the G MLC .

In step the G MLC initiates a control plane function as described in greater detail below in relation to to determine the location of mobile device . In response to the control plane function initiated in step the G MLC receives a location estimate related to the cell identifier of the cell within which mobile device is currently located. In this example the cell identifier is an evolved universal terrestrial radio access network E UTRAN cell global identifier ECGI . An ECGI is a globally unique value that identifies a cell. The location estimate as discussed above related to the pd is a geographically based description of the center of the cell based on the cell identifier. The G MLC utilizes the location estimate related to the cell identifier of the cell within which mobile device is currently located to generate a location answer. The location answer is for example a standard location immediate answer SLIA . The SLIA includes among other information the MDN of mobile device and a pd based on the location estimate. The G MLC in step forwards the location answer to the LPS .

In step the LPS forwards the location answer to the SCG . In step the SCG forwards the location answer to the application server . At this point the application server may then utilize the general location of mobile device based on the pd in the location answer to customize localized content for delivery to mobile device . In one example application server determines based on the pd in the location answer that mobile device is currently located within a particular metro area and sends local news weather for that metro area to mobile device .

In step the LPS forwards a coarse location request for mobile device to the G MLC . Step is the same as step of . As described above the location request is for example a SLIR. The location request is based on a location accuracy value equal to or greater than 1000 meters a coarse location request. In step the G MLC queries the HSS to determine the MME currently serving mobile device . The query is for example a user data request UDR over a Sh interface Sh UDR . The Sh interface is a Diameter based interface defined in an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS for service layer based authorization authentication and accounting AAA functions. The query includes among other information the MSISDN of mobile device . The HSS utilizes the MSISDN of mobile device to determine the MME currently serving mobile device and in step the HSS returns an answer to the query to the G MLC . The answer is for example a user data answer UDA over the Sh interface Sh UDA . The answer includes among other information the identifier of the serving MME and the IMSI of the SIM in mobile device .

In step the G MLC forwards a location request to the serving MME . The location request includes among other information the IMSI of the SIM in mobile device . If the serving MME contains current information e.g. cell identifier and or location estimate of the cell related to the cell within which mobile device is currently located the process proceeds to step . In step the serving MME provides a location response to the G MLC . The location response includes among other information the current location estimate related to the cell identifier of the cell e.g. center latitude and center longitude within which mobile device is currently located.

If the serving MME does not contain current information related to the cell within which mobile device is currently located the process proceeds to step . In step the serving MME conducts a paging process to update the cell identifier related to mobile device . The paging process involves for example the serving MME paging mobile device . In step mobile device responds to the page from the serving MME with the cell identifier of the cell within which mobile device is currently located. The cell identifier is for example an ECGI of the cell or eNodeB currently providing radio access to mobile device .

In step the serving MME submits a location request to the E SMLC of the 4G location server . The location request in this example directs the E SMLC to determine a location estimate related to the current cell identifier related to mobile device . The location request includes among other information a correlation identifier and the current cell identifier. The correlation identifier is for example a unique value that allows the MME and E SMLC to correlate a location request with a location response exchanged between MME and E SMLC . After the E SMLC determines the location estimate related to the current cell identifier related to mobile device the E SMLC provides a location response to the serving MME in step . The location response includes among other information the correlation identifier from the location request and location estimate related to the current cell identifier related to mobile device . The serving MME then completes step as described above.

In step the G MLC provides a location answer to the LPS . Step is the same as step in . The location answer is for example a SLIA including a pd based on the location estimate.

As shown by the description above a variety of the location related functions may be implemented on servers. Although special built hardware may be used server functions often are implemented by appropriate programming to configure one or more general purpose computer platforms that have interfacing to support communications via the particular network s .

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication see . The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load. The software programming relating to the location techniques discussed herein may be downloaded and or updated from a computer platform for example to configure the location proxy server or other server e.g. or from a host computer or the like communicating with the mobile device via the network e.g. .

A computer type user terminal device such as a PC or tablet computer similarly includes a data communication interface CPU main memory and one or more mass storage devices for storing user data and the various executable programs see . A mobile device type user terminal may include similar elements but will typically use smaller components that also require less power to facilitate implementation in a portable form factor. The various types of user terminal devices will also include various user input and output elements. A computer for example may include a keyboard and a cursor control selection device such as a mouse trackball joystick or touchpad and a display for visual outputs. A microphone and speaker enable audio input and output. Some smartphones include similar but smaller input and output elements. Tablets and other types of smartphones utilize touch sensitive display screens instead of separate keyboard and cursor control elements. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such user terminal devices also are conventional in nature.

Hence aspects of the techniques for processing a location request for a commercial application server and related communications outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated list data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory or tangible storage media more general terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

