---

title: Parameter offset estimation through use of a secondary signal collected from multiple sensors
abstract: Various embodiments associated with estimating a parameter offset for editions of a signal of interest through use of a secondary signal are described. A plurality of distributed asynchronous sensors can capture editions of a signal of interest as well as editions of a secondary signal. The secondary signal can be much stronger than the signal of interest. Since individual sensors capture the signal of interest editions and the secondary editions, offset calculated for one can be used for the other. With the secondary signal being stronger than the signal of interest, the offset of the editions of the signal of interest can be estimated. Once the offset is estimated for the secondary editions, the offset can be used for the signal of interest editions. After the offset is used to align the signal of interest editions, the signal of interest editions can be combined and further processing can occur.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178544&OS=09178544&RS=09178544
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09178544
owner_city: Washingon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130307
---
The innovation described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefore.

In a combat environment different forces can broadcast different signals. In a singular environment enemy combatants can each broadcast different signals. It may be possible for one combatant to intercept the signal of another combatant. The intercepting combatant may not know the modulation scheme of an intercepted signal. Without the modulation scheme it may be difficult to put the intercepted signal to use.

A system comprising an estimation component an alteration component and a non transitory computer readable medium is described. The estimation component is configured to estimate an offset of a first edition of a secondary signal to a second edition of the secondary signal where the first edition of the secondary signal is collected along with a first edition of a signal of interest from a first sensor where the second edition of the secondary signal is collected along with a second edition of the signal of interest from a second sensor where the first edition of the signal of interest is weaker in signal strength than the first edition of the secondary signal where the second edition of the signal of interest is weaker in signal strength than the second edition of the secondary signal where the signal of interest and the secondary signal are different signals and where the first sensor and the second sensor are different sensors. The alteration component is configured to alter the first edition of the signal of interest in accordance with the offset. The non transitory computer readable medium is configured to retain at least one executable instruction related to the collection component the estimation component the alteration component or a combination thereof.

A system comprising a collection component an estimation component an alteration component a fusion component a match component an identification component a demodulation component an output component and a processor is described. The collection component is configured to collect a first edition of a secondary signal along with a first edition of a signal of interest from a first sensor and configured to collect a second edition of the secondary signal along with a second edition of the signal of interest from a second sensor where the first edition of the signal of interest is weaker in signal strength than the first edition of the secondary signal where the second edition of the signal of interest is weaker in signal strength than the secondary signal where the signal of interest and the secondary signal are different signals where a network of the signal of interest is unknown where content of the secondary signal is unknown and where the first sensor and the second sensor are different sensors. The estimation component is configured to estimate an offset of the second edition of the secondary signal to the first edition of the secondary signal where the offset comprises a relative frequency offset and a relative phase offset. The alteration component is configured to alter the second edition of the signal of interest in accordance with the offset. The fusion component is configured to combine the altered second edition of the signal of interest with the first edition of the signal of interest. The match component is configured to match the combined signal of interest with a known signal. The identification component is configured to make an identification of a modulation scheme of the known signal. The demodulation component configured to demodulate the combined signal of interest through use of the modulation scheme of the known signal. The output component configured to cause the demodulated signal of interest to be outputted. The processor configured to execute at least one instruction related to at least one of the components of the system.

A non transitory computer readable medium configured to store computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform a method is described. The method comprises sending a request for a signal of interest as well as collecting a first edition of the signal of interest along with a first edition of a secondary signal from a first sensor where the first edition of the secondary signal is stronger than the first edition of the signal of interest where the signal of interest and the secondary signal are different signals and where the first sensor sends the first edition of the signal of interest along with the first edition of the secondary signal as a first response to the request for the signal of interest. The method also comprises collecting a second edition of the signal of interest along with a second edition of the secondary signal from a second sensor where the second edition of the secondary signal is stronger than the second edition of the signal of interest where the first sensor and the second sensor are different sensors and where the second sensor sends the second edition of the signal of interest along with the second edition of the secondary signal as a second response to the request for the signal of interest. The method further comprises collecting a third edition of the signal of interest along with a third edition of the secondary signal from a third sensor where the third edition of the secondary signal is stronger than the third edition of the signal of interest where the first sensor and third sensor are different sensors where the second sensor and the third sensor are different sensors where the third sensor sends the third edition of the signal of interest along with the third edition of the secondary signal as a third response to the request for the signal of interest and where the first sensor second sensor and third sensor are asynchronous. The method additionally comprises estimating a second edition parameter offset of the second edition of the secondary signal against the first edition of the secondary signal and altering the second edition of the signal of interest in accordance with the second edition parameter offset where the second edition parameter offset comprises a relative frequency second edition parameter offset and a relative phase second edition parameter offset. In addition the method comprises estimating a third edition parameter offset of the third edition of the secondary signal against the first edition of the secondary signal and altering the third edition of the signal of interest in accordance with the third edition parameter offset where the third edition parameter offset comprises a relative frequency third edition parameter offset and a relative phase third edition parameter offset and where the third edition parameter offset is unequal to the second edition parameter offset. Further the method comprises coarsely measuring a signal to noise ratio SNR for the first edition of the signal of interest the second edition of the signal of interest after alteration and the third edition of the signal of interest after alteration. Additionally the method comprises identifying two editions of the signal of interest with the highest SNRs and combining the two editions of the signal of interest with the highest SNR into a combined signal. The method additionally comprises making a comparison of a SNR of the combined signal against a threshold where the comparison produces a comparison result. In addition the method comprises combining the edition of the signal of interest not already combined into the combined signal in response to the comparison result being that the SNR of the combined signal does not meet the threshold. The method further comprises identifying a constellation of the combined signal in response to the comparison result being that the SNR of the combined signal does meet the threshold or in response to there being no editions remaining to combine with the combined signal. The method additionally comprises matching the constellation of the combined signal with a constellation of a known signal. The method also comprises selecting a demodulation scheme associated with the known signal and using the demodulation scheme to demodulate the combined signal through use of the demodulation scheme. The method further comprises outputting the combined signal after demodulation.

Asynchronous low cost sensors in distributed locations can be used in sensing and classifying a very weak signal. This weak signal may not be difficult to identify by using a single sensor alone but can be better detected and classified by fusing multiple weak signal editions collected by a sensor network comprising the sensors. The signal editions that can be asynchronous due to the sensors being asynchronous can have relative offsets in frequency and phase due to diversities and drifts in the distributed local oscillators. An offset estimation can be used to estimate and compensate for relative frequency and phase offsets in fusing signal editions together by referencing to a secondary signal with stronger transmitting power than a signal of interest where the signal editions are of the signal of interest. If the secondary signal interferes the signal of interest then the secondary signal can be suppressed using a reciprocal copy of the secondary signal. Therefore the distributed signal copies can be coherently combined to achieve a higher processing gain for reliable signal exploitation.

Simple inexpensive low maintenance and heterogeneous sensors can be deployed to cover a wide spread geographical area seamlessly and multiple narrow band receivers can be collaborated to handle a wide frequency band effectively. The distributed sensors can be clustered and orchestrated by a fusion center which has sufficient processing power to process received signal editions. The fusion center can send periodic requesting signal RS to L distributed sensors R R . . . and RL to acquire a signal of interest SOI that is weak. Upon the reception of the request the distributed sensors take short time duration snapshots of the SOI. The distributed sensors can be configured to provide very limited signal processing capabilities such as radio frequency reception and transmission frequency tuning and down conversion filtering and digitization. Thus the sensors can be asynchronous and non cooperative to one another and are used for communicating with or relaying distributed snapshots to the fusion center. Since the frequency down conversion local oscillators LOs can be different due to heterogeneous and asynchronous aspects of the sensors the fusion center can estimate and compensate the relative frequency offset RFO and the relative phase offset RPO induced by different LOs at the distributed sensor locations before combining the signal copies coherently. However if the SOI is very weak or transmitted in a frequency adjacent to a strong signal the offset estimation may become unreliable. The nearby strong signal known as a secondary signal SS can be leveraged as a reference to estimate RFO and RPO of the distributed sensors and further suppress the SS if the SS interferes the SOI.

The SS copies from L sensors can be sent to Relative Frequency and Phase Estimator for estimating the RFO and RTO induced by LOs. The estimates of RFO and RPO can be obtained by searching circumflex over the best estimate of such that

If the RFO and RPO of LOs are not changed in the short observation time period the estimates circumflex over and circumflex over can be used to compensate the RFO and RPO of SOI copies in the Relative Frequency and Phase Compensator as below 5 

If the RTO is also to be compensated the RTO can be estimated by searching the best circumflex over using Relative Time Estimator and Compensator such that the correlation magnitude of

In the situation that the SS interferes the SOI the SS Recovery Processor uses the reciprocal SS copies to suppress the SS portion of the received signal in order to maximize the SOI portion. The SS Tuner can adjust the gain phase and timing of the reciprocal SS copies in order to achieve the best suppression result.

The fusion center can be designed to have sufficient computational power and bandwidth to handle and process the signal copies provided by the sensors in a relatively short time. SS and SOI registers that store SS Copy 1 to SS Copy L and SOI Copy 1 to SOI Copy L are non transitory computer readable mediums e.g. memories or storage devices . Estimators compensators and the combiner of the fusion center can be signal processors which can be but is not limited to digital signal processor DSP field programmable gate array FPGA Personal computer PC firmware and computer software and other computing devices.

When the channel is not AWGN the channel phases can be added to the signal snapshots observed in the distributed locations and the additional RPO estimation can be applied or an adaptive filter will be used to compensate the channel phase.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples. The examples are not intended to be limiting.

 One embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s can include a particular feature structure characteristic property or element but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property or element. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment may or may not refer to the same embodiment.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that stores signals instructions and or data. Examples of a computer readable medium include but are not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical disks magnetic disks and so on. Volatile media may include for example semiconductor memories dynamic memory and so on. Common forms of a computer readable medium may include but are not limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium other optical medium a Random Access Memory RAM a Read Only Memory ROM a memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is a non transitory computer readable medium.

 Component as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software stored on a computer readable medium or in execution on a machine and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component method and or system. Component may include a software controlled microprocessor a discrete component an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Where multiple components are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple components into one physical component or conversely where a single component is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical component between multiple components.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries.

A plurality of distributed asynchronous sensors can capture editions of a signal of interest as well as editions of a secondary signal. The secondary signal can be much stronger than the signal of interest. Since individual sensors capture the signal of interest editions and the secondary signal editions offset calculated for one can be used for the other. With the secondary signal being stronger than the signal of interest the offset of the editions of the signal of interest can be estimated. Once the offset is estimated for the secondary signal editions the offset can be used for the signal of interest editions. After the offset is used to align the signal of interest editions the signal of interest editions can be combined and further processing can occur.

In one embodiment the system or other component disclosed herein can be part of the fusion center of the system of and or be part of the system of . A request signal can be sent by the system to a group of asynchronous sensors e.g. directly sent to the sensors sent generally to any sensor within a range etc. . The request can be directed to the signal of interest directed to the signal of interest and the secondary signal or be a request for signal s captured to be transferred. In response to the request signal the sensors can capture a snapshot of the signal of interest and the secondary signal and or send a data packet that includes the snapshot. The system can evaluate the signal of interest. If the signal of interest is too weak then the system can process the secondary signal editions and then process the signal of interest editions.

In one embodiment the first edition of the signal of interest and the first edition of the secondary signal are captured by the first sensor in a single snapshot. In one embodiment the first edition of the signal of interest and the first edition of the secondary signal are captured by the first sensor in the same signal copy. This can also be true of the second editions of the signal of interest and secondary signal.

In one embodiment the second edition of the signal of interest and the second edition of the secondary signal are captured by the second sensor at different times. In one embodiment the second edition of the signal of interest and the second edition of the secondary signal are captured by the second sensor in different signal copies. This can also be true of the first editions of the signal of interest and secondary signal.

Different sensors can employ different capture techniques for the same signal of interest and secondary signal. For example while the first sensor can capture the signal of interest and the secondary signal in the same signal copy the second sensor can capture the signal of interest and the secondary signal copy in different signal copies. These copies can be sent to the system and the system can process the editions of their content.

In one embodiment the first sensor and the second sensor are part of different networks. In one example the first sensor is part of a cellular telephone network of a first company while the second sensor is part of a cellular telephone network of a second company. In one example the first sensor is part of a cellular telephone network of a first company while the second sensor is part of a non cellular telephone network of a third company. In one embodiment the first sensor is part of a first electronic device e.g. of a first network with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the first edition of the signal of interest and the second sensor is part of a second electronic device e.g. of the first network of a second network different from the first network etc. with a primary purpose other than functioning as a sensor of the second edition of the signal of interest where the first electronic device and the second device are different electronic devices. Thus sensors can be part of already existent equipment. For example various electronic devices can be carried by soldiers in the battlefield. These electronic devices can be employed as sensors e.g. when they are not being used for their primary purpose . The devices can send signal editions to commanding center far away from the battlefield and the editions can be processed.

In one embodiment little can be known about the signal of interest and or secondary signal. In one example a network of the signal of interest and or the secondary signal can be unknown. In one example the content of the secondary signal can be unknown. The offset e.g. parameter offset calculated for the secondary signal and thus applied to the signal of interest can comprise a relative frequency offset a relative phase offset a relative time offset etc.

In one embodiment the second editions e.g. or other editions such as the first editions can be treated as a base signal to which other signal editions can be compared e.g. the first editions . Thus other signals can be altered according to their offset from the second editions. The base signal can be changed as more editions are collected or remain constant for analysis of a signal of interest. In one embodiment the first edition of the signal of interest and second edition of the signal of interest are modified in accordance with their offset from one another.

The signal of interest may be from an unknown network such as a signal from an enemy combatant in a military operation. With the signal of interest being from an unknown network a modulation scheme associated with the signal of interest may not be known. A constellation of the signal of interest e.g. after fusion of multiple editions of the signal of interest can be identified and compared with constellations of known signals retained in a database e.g. the computer readable medium . The constellations of known signals can be associated with a modulation scheme. A constellation of a known signal best matching the constellation of the signal of interest can be designated and a modulation scheme of the best matching known signal can be used to demodulate the signal of interest.

In one embodiment different signal editions can have be offset in time due to when signals are captured by the asynchronous sensors. Thus one or more editions can be resampled such that the editions are aligned in time. Once aligned in time editions can be more easily processed e.g. combined together by the fusion component .

With the secondary signal being stronger in signal strength than the signal of interest it may be possible for the secondary signal to interfere with the signal of interest. Since the signal of interest can be a desirable signal and the secondary signal can be merely used to better process the signal of interest the secondary signal can be considered of little value. Thus if the secondary signal interferes with the signal of interest then it can be difficult to access the signal of interest. Therefore the interference can be identified e.g. interference surpasses a threshold level the signal of interest cannot be used without interference being lessened or removed etc. and appropriate measures can be taken e.g. take reciprocal of secondary signal editions and then delete secondary signal editions .

In one embodiment a plurality of sensors can be employed that transfer editions of the signal of interest. Combining all received editions of the signal of interest can be time consuming resource intensive and cause the combined signal to be less valuable than a signal with less than all received editions. The system can function such that signal editions are evaluated based on their SNR and signal editions with the lowest SNR are combined into the combined signal. The system can function in an iterative fashion such that the editions can be combined into the combined signal one by one and after a combination a check can be made if the SNR of the combined signal meets the threshold e.g. reaches the threshold exceeds the threshold does not surpass the threshold etc. .

At estimating an offset of a first edition of a secondary signal to a second edition of the secondary signal occurs where the first edition of the secondary signal is collected along with a first edition of a signal of interest from a first sensor where the offset comprises a relative frequency offset and a relative phase offset. Also at there is estimating a third edition parameter offset of the third edition of the secondary signal against the first edition of the secondary signal where the third edition parameter offset comprises a relative frequency third edition parameter offset and a relative phase third edition parameter offset. At there is altering the second edition of the signal of interest in accordance with the offset as well as altering the third edition of the signal of interest in accordance with the third edition parameter offset where the third edition parameter offset is unequal to the second edition parameter offset.

At there is coarsely measuring a signal to noise ratio SNR for the first edition of the signal of interest coarsely measuring an SNR for the second edition of the signal of interest e.g. after alteration and coarsely measuring an SNR for the third edition of the signal of interest e.g. after alteration . At there is identifying two signal editions of the signal of interest with the highest SNRs as well as combining the two signal editions of the signal of interest with the highest SNR into a combined signal e.g. from among the first edition second edition e.g. after alteration and third edition e.g. after alteration of the signal of interest where at least one of the two editions of the signal of interest with the highest SNR are in an offset altered form e.g. the second edition of the signal of interest after being altered in accordance with the second edition parameter offset . At there is making a comparison of a SNR of the combined signal against a threshold. If the comparison result is that the SNR of the combined signal does not meet the threshold then combining the edition of the signal of interest not already combined into the combined signal can occur at . If the comparison result is that the SNR of the combined signal does meet the threshold e.g. reaches the threshold stays below the threshold exceeds the threshold etc. or if there are no signal editions remaining to combine with the combined signal then method can continue to . Thus can also include determining that the comparison is not appropriate since there are no more signal editions to combine.

At there is identifying a constellation of the combined signal. Also at there is matching the constellation of the combined signal with a constellation of a known signal. At there is selecting a demodulation scheme associated with the known signal. At there is also using the demodulation scheme to demodulate the combined signal through use of the demodulation scheme. At there is outputting the combined signal after demodulation.

Actions of the method can be combined into fewer actions broken out into more actions have actions added or removed as well as have actions performed in a different sequence than listed when possible. In addition while discussion herein relates to two or three sensors and signal editions it is to be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that more than two or three sensors can be employed in practicing aspects disclosed herein. Further references to a numerical order of signals can function of a mere identifiers and not necessarily convey a ranking or order.

