---

title: Retention harness
abstract: A retention harness for restraining a user within a vehicle. The harness includes a waist strap, a waist strap buckle assembly, two over the shoulder straps, a rear connector, and a forward connector. The waist strap is attachable to the waist strap buckle assembly. Each over the shoulder strap is attached to the waist strap buckle assembly. The two over the shoulder straps form an X on a user's back via a shoulder strap crossover plate, while each over the shoulder strap is adjustable via an adjustment slider. The rear connector is attached to the waist strap, and is attachable to retention hardware. The retention hardware is attachable to a bar attached to the vehicle. The forward connector is attached to the waist strap buckle assembly and attachable to forward retention hardware, the forward retention hardware attachable to the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08973945&OS=08973945&RS=08973945
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08973945
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130520
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Various military vehicles such as trucks boats and aircraft produce high energy movement in multiple unpredictable directions. This movement may cause a person in the vehicle to become injured and or fall out of the vehicle. Currently used harnesses in these types of high impact vehicles do not have the ability to adequately secure a user within the vehicle.

For example but without limitation the Deployable Operations Group of the United States Coast Guard USCG utilizes small craft with machine guns mounted on the bow. Currently the USCG uses a rudimentary repelling harness and a single forward mounted strap to secure a gunner in the boat. This configuration has led to numerous individuals being ejected from the craft in high seas and during aggressive maneuvering.

The present invention is directed to a retention harness that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to a retention harness for restraining a user within a vehicle. The assembly includes a waist strap a waist strap buckle assembly two over the shoulder straps a rear connector and a forward connector. The waist strap has a first waist strap end a second waist strap end and a middle portion. The middle portion is disposed between the first waist strap end and the second waist strap end. The first waist strap end and the second waist strap end are attachable to the waist strap buckle assembly. Each over the shoulder strap has a first strap end and a second strap end and each first strap end is attached to the waist strap buckle assembly. Each second strap end is attached to the middle portion. The two over the shoulder straps form an X on a user s back via a shoulder strap crossover plate while each over the shoulder strap is adjustable via an adjustment slider. The rear connector is attached to the middle portion of the waist strap and is attachable to rear retention hardware. The rear retention hardware is attachable to a bar attached to the vehicle. The forward connector is attached to the waist strap buckle assembly and attachable to forward retention hardware the forward retention hardware attachable to the vehicle.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a retention harness that can adequately secure a user without modification to the vehicle.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a retention harness that prevents a user from being ejected from a high impact vehicle.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As shown in a retention harness for restraining a user within a vehicle includes a waist strap a waist strap buckle assembly two over the shoulder straps a rear connector and a forward connector . The waist strap has a first waist strap end a second waist strap end and a middle portion . The middle portion is disposed between the first waist strap end and the second waist strap end . The first waist strap end and the second waist strap end are attachable to the waist strap buckle assembly . Each over the shoulder strap has a first strap end and a second strap end and each first strap end is attached to the waist strap buckle assembly . Each second strap end is attached to the middle portion of the waist strap . The two over the shoulder straps form an X on a user s back via a shoulder strap crossover plate and each over the shoulder strap is adjustable via an adjustment slider . The rear connector is attached to the middle portion of the waist strap and is attachable to retention hardware shown in particularly rear retention hardware. The retention hardware is attachable to a fixed point on a vehicle. It may be attached via a bar strap any combination thereof or any other means practicable such that it will allow a crewmember limited movement. The forward connector is attached to the waist strap buckle assembly and is attachable to a solid forward mount on the vehicle.

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a military environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of application that requires use of a retention harness .

As shown in the retention harness may also include a padded waist belt . The padded waist belt may be attached via stitching or attachable to the waist strap via guide loops . In the preferred embodiment the guide loops are part of the padded waist belt .

The retention hardware may be any type of connector such as a rolling connector a quick disconnect or any other apparatus that can operate as retention hardware or as a connector. In one of the embodiments as shown in the retention hardware includes a looped portion and an attachment block . As shown in the looped portion is a cable threaded with beads and is able to be attached to a fixed point on the vehicle. In one of the embodiments the looped portion is able to surround a bar on the vehicle such that the user can move laterally along the axis of the bar. The cable may be but without limitation manufactured from stainless steel metal metal alloys ceramics or any type of material practicable. The beads may be but without limitation manufactured from nylon or any type of material practicable. Preferably the beads are manufactured from any non corrosive and non wearing material. The looped portion is attached to the attachment block and the attachment block has an aperture that can be used to connect the retention hardware to the rear connector or forward connector via a retention strap.

As shown in the cable of the looped portion of the retention hardware has a first cable end and a second cable end . The first cable end and the second cable end are disposed on opposite ends of the cable . As shown in both the first cable end and the second cable end are attached to the attachment block such that they form the looped portion in the shape of a U. As shown in at both the first cable end and the second cable end there is a ball swedge . The attachment block may include a first attachment block portion and a second attachment block portion . The first attachment block portion and the second attachment block portion may be substantially similar. Both may include two ball swedge cable impressions . Each ball swedge cable impression may correspond to a ball swedge cable impression on the other attachment block portion such that when the first attachment block portion and the second attachment block portion are placed together a ball swedge cable passageway is created by the corresponding ball swedge cable impressions . The ball swedge cable passageway accepts and holds the ball swedge and a portion of the cable particularly part of the first cable end or second cable end . Each attachment block portion may include attachment passageways and corresponding counter sinks . As shown in the first attachment block portion and the second attachment block portion are fastened via fasteners disposed within the attachment passageways and corresponding counter sinks . The fasteners may be screws bolts or any type of fastener practicable.

As shown in the retention harness may also include a shackle release lanyard and a release lanyard toggle . The shackle release lanyard is routed through guide tubes and guide rings and is actuated manually by the user with the release lanyard toggle . The shackle release lanyard may be disposed on and or in one of the over the shoulder straps . The rear connector and the forward connector have a locked and unlocked position such that when locked the connectors are attached to a vehicle or retaining straps that can attach to the vehicle. In the preferred embodiment the rear connector and forward connector have a claw snap configuration. The shackle release lanyard communicates with the rear connector and the forward connector such when the shackle release lanyard is actuated both the rear connector and the forward connector are unlocked thereby releasing the retention harness from the vehicle and or any retaining straps attached to the vehicle. The release lanyard toggle communicates with the shackle release lanyard such that when the release lanyard toggle is pulled by the user the shackle release lanyard causes the rear connector and the forward connector to unlock.

The waist strap and two over the shoulder straps may be but without limitation manufactured from any fabric practicable. In one of the embodiments of the invention the waist strap may be manufactured from acrylic nylon.

In the preferred embodiment as shown the shoulder strap crossover plate is pentagon shaped. It has five edge strip portions outlining the shape of a pentagon. The shoulder strap crossover plate further includes a first slot a second slot and a third slot . The shoulder straps enter the first slot cross over one another and then separately go through the second slot and the third slot .

In one of the embodiments of the indention as shown in the waist strap buckle assembly has two female quick disconnect fittings and a connecting strap . The female quick disconnect fittings are disposed at opposite ends of the connecting strap . These female quick disconnect fittings correspond to male quick disconnect fittings disposed at both the first waist strap end and the second waist strap end of the waist strap .

The retention harness may be designed such that a standard issue utility belt may be incorporated into the retention harness . As shown in the padded waist belt may be equipped with five harness waist belt utility belt keepers which can be used to attach a standard utility belt to the retention harness . In one of the embodiments the guide loops may be a strap snap system such that the utility belt may be easily attached and detached from the patted waist belt .

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

