---

title: Feed routing for object based collaboration
abstract: Systems and methods for routing activity information related to objects in an external application to activity feeds associated with users in a collaboration group are disclosed. When activity information is received, it is routed to collaboration group feeds and user feeds based on a set of routing tables. The routing tables associated objects with events, containers, collaboration groups, and finally users. Based on the routing tables, users who belong to a collaboration groups that are associated with a particular object may see the activity information about that object rendered in an activity feed if the external application grants them permission to access the object. Accordingly, security associated with the object in the external application can be maintained when event information about that object is shared in an activity feed in a collaboration system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09356978&OS=09356978&RS=09356978
owner: SAP SE
number: 09356978
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20131230
---
The present application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 904 199 filed on Nov. 14 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates to collaborations systems and in particular to routing collaboration feed items in systems that include information from and about objects stored in or maintained by external applications.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Collaboration is a practice by which individuals work together to achieve a common goal. In some situations the goal can be well defined as is the case in business scenarios in which a group of employees are directed to design make sell and distribute a particular product. In other situations the goal may be more loosely defined. For instance the purpose or goal for collaborating may be to increase the social interactions among users to foster an environment of innovation camaraderie or creativity.

To facilitate collaboration various systems with collaborative environments have been developed to provide groups of users with information and mechanisms for collaborating with one another to achieve their collective goals. SAP Jam is an example of a collaboration system that focuses on collaboration for achieving specific business and sales goals. Systems intended to develop social interaction type collaboration are commonly referred to as social networks .

The mechanisms for collaboration implemented by such systems vary according to the requirements of the specific type of collaboration and the end goals. In some systems the interaction among the users may be as simple as exchanging comments in an online forum. For example various types of chat rooms and discussion boards exist that allow users to post announcements and comments to other member users. The announcements and comments may be organized and posted based on time and or topic of discussion. Accordingly a chronological discussion about one subject e.g. making contact with a particular target customer for a potential sale may be separated from another chronological discussion about another subject e.g. finalizing the shipment of products to the target customer in response to a previous purchase . As used herein the term comment is used generically to refer to any content received from a user in a collaboration system and may include but is not limited to alphanumeric text hyperlinks files documents computer readable code network addresses and the like.

The organization of the comments can be in the form of a thread of interactive comments in which users may make comments in response to previously posted comments from other users. Accordingly the thread of comments is often arranged according to the natural flow of the thread similar to a real time conversation. As more comments are posted the conversation can be updated. However unlike a real time conversation the comments in a particular conversation thread may also be saved or archived such that users can refer back to prior comments in the thread of comments.

Because not all users of a particular collaboration system will be interested in and or authorized to view the information in a particular conversation thread many systems define collaboration groups. Thus group members who are associated with a particular collaboration group will be able to view and or participate in the comment thread conducted among the members of that collaboration group. Group based access control is a simple and efficient manner in which to organize the topics or goals of particular online comment thread. Not only does it provide a mechanism for defining groups of users who are or should be interested in the topic of a particular conversation thread it also provides a mechanism for controlling access to information in the conversation thread. Members of the groups can share information some of which may be confidential or otherwise sensitive freely with other members of the group with some degree of confidence that the viewers of the information have the requisite interest and authorization.

Group based access control is effective when dealing with information that originates from within the collaboration system. For example when users log on and post comments or information to a particular collaboration group they can reasonably assume that the members of a collaboration group are authorized to view the information. However complications arise when group members or the collaboration system itself imports information from external sources. The imported information may have additional authorization or access requirements that some or all the members of a particular collaboration group may not have. Typically collaboration systems have no mechanisms for verifying group members authorization levels with respect to information received from an external source. Accordingly indiscriminately posting information from the external source like an application external to the collaboration system may result in information being inadvertently disseminated to users who are not authorized to access the information according the security or authorization requirements of the external system.

Embodiments of the present disclosure improve collaboration systems. One embodiment of the present disclosure includes a method for routing activity information in a collaboration system that includes operating one or more data processing units to perform the actions of receiving an activity notification regarding an activity involving an object from an external application separate from the collaboration system analyzing the activity notification to generate an event item comprising an object identifier associated with the object and a description of the activity involving the object accessing a first relationship table comprising a plurality of object container association records to determine one or more container identifiers associated with the object identifier and creating one or more group feed items in a group feeds table wherein each group feed item comprises an event item identifier associated with the event item and one of the one or more container identifiers.

In one embodiment the method includes accessing a collaboration groups table comprising a plurality of container group association records to determine one or more collaboration group identifiers associated with the one or more container identifiers accessing a second relationship table comprising a plurality of user group association records to determine a set of user identifiers associated with the one or more collaboration group identifiers querying the external application to determine which of the set of user identifiers are authorized to access the object receiving a response from the external application comprising a set of authorized user identifiers and generating an intersection of the set of user identifiers and the set of authorized user identifiers to generate a set of common user identifiers.

In one embodiment the method includes creating a plurality of user feed items in a user feeds table wherein each of the plurality of user feed items comprises one user identifier from the set of common user identifiers associated with the event item identifier and rendering the plurality of user feed items in a plurality of corresponding user feeds associated with individual users according to the set of common user identifiers.

In one embodiment the method includes rendering the plurality of group feed items as posts in a plurality of corresponding group feeds according to the one or more container identifiers and the plurality of container group association records receiving a comment associated with one of the plurality of object container association records through one of the plurality of corresponding group feeds from a user of the collaboration system analyzing the comment to generate a comment event item comprising a comment identifier and the one of the plurality of object container association records creating a group feed comment item in the group feeds table comprising the container identifier from the one of the plurality of object container association records and a comment event item identifier associated with the comment event item accessing a collaboration groups table comprising a plurality of container group association records to determine a collaboration group identifier associated with the container identifier accessing a second relationship table comprising a plurality of user group association records to determine a set of user identifiers associated with the one or more collaboration group identifiers querying the external application to determine which of the set of user identifiers are authorized to access the object receiving a response from the external application comprising a set of authorized user identifiers and generating an intersection of the set of user identifiers and the set of authorized user identifiers to generate a set of common user identifiers.

In one embodiment the method includes rendering the group feed comment item as a comment post in collaboration group feeds associated with user identifiers in the set of common user identifiers.

Another embodiment includes a non transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a computer processor cause the computer processor to be configured for routing activity information in a collaboration system by performing the actions of receiving an activity notification regarding an activity involving an object from an external application separate from the collaboration system analyzing the activity notification to generate an event item comprising an object identifier associated with the object and a description of the activity involving the object accessing a first relationship table comprising a plurality of object container association records to determine one or more container identifiers associated with the object identifier and creating one or more group feed items in a group feeds table wherein each group feed item comprises an event item identifier associated with the event item and one of the one or more container identifiers.

Yet another embodiment includes a collaboration system comprising a processor and a non transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to be configured to receive an activity notification regarding an activity involving an object from an external application separate from the collaboration system analyze the activity notification to generate an event item comprising an object identifier associated with the object and a description of the activity involving the object access a first relationship table comprising a plurality of object container association records to determine one or more container identifiers associated with the object identifier and create one or more group feed items in a group feeds table wherein each group feed item comprise an event item identifier associated with the event item and one of the one or more container identifiers.

The following detailed description and accompanying drawings provide a better understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention.

Described herein are improved techniques and systems for connecting collaboration systems with external applications. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous examples and specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure as defined by the claims may include some or all of the features in these examples alone or in combination with other features described below and may further include modifications and equivalents of the features and concepts described herein.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure provide techniques for improved integration of information provided by external applications e.g. a customer relationship management CRM application about activity in those applications into a collaboration system. As used herein applications such as CRM and other business applications are referred to as external applications for simplicity and clarity. The term collaboration system refers to any application or system with mechanisms for providing information to individual and groups of users about internal and external events or activity. For example a collaboration system may include a number of activity feeds that support the dissemination of information about changes to objects in an external application or comments from users about those changes to one or more individual users or groups of users.

External application may refer to any application or system that can exchange data with a collaboration system. Accordingly the external application may include a separate application executed on one or more separate computing system or on the same computing system on which the collaboration system is executed. However embodiments of the present disclosure also advantageously provide techniques for easily integrating the collaboration system into an existing external application. For example using various embodiments of the present disclosure mechanisms for collaboration among various groups of users can be added to another application such as a CRM or other business application. In such embodiments it is possible for the collaboration system to be included in an external application as a module that receives activity information from one or more other modules in the external application.

Collaboration systems for sharing information may grant users access to certain information based on simple user specific permissions and membership in particular groups. In such systems various users have access to streams of information and comments referred to herein as feeds based on their affiliation with specific groups defined by certain users of the system. For example a sales manager can set up a specific group of sales people and other support staff who are responsible for servicing a particular customer. Members of a group will be predetermined and specifically listed by name or other identifier in a group record such as a collaboration group member table. Any member of a particular collaboration group may be granted permission to see contribute to or comment on information displayed in the corresponding collaboration group feed.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure collaboration group membership based access to information about activity involving objects in an external application can be combined with the permissions granted to specific users regarding those objects in the external application. In such embodiments a user s ability to see a particular activity feed item involving a specific object in an external application in either a user specific activity feed or in a collaboration group feed can be based on that user s membership in a particular collaboration group and the permissions granted by the external application to that user relative to that specific object. When viewed from the perspective of granting multiple users access to a specific activity feed item associated with a particular object in a collaboration group feed the users who will granted permission may be represented by the intersection of the users who are members of the collaboration group and the users who have permission to access the object in the external application. Such embodiments advantageously provide for control of permissions for users to view certain collaboration group feed items from within the collaboration system or the external object.

A collaboration group can be defined by a particular goal or by the member users listed as members or followers of the collaboration group. Such collaboration groups may be associated with or include one or more activity feeds. An activity feed can include information e.g. comments or posts from members of the group as well as information about activity involving objects records or data in the collaboration system or in an external application that may be pertinent to the corresponding goal of the collaboration group. As such a collaboration group can be created for any purpose. For instance a collaboration group may directed toward the task of servicing a particular customer i.e. customer specific collaboration group or closing a deal based on a particular sales opportunity with that customer i.e. sales opportunity specific collaboration group .

Member users of such collaboration groups can be defined by having specific users follow or subscribe to the group. Some subset of the users of the collaboration system may follow the customer specific collaboration group and some other subset of user may follow the sales opportunity specific collaboration group. Which users follow which groups may be recorded in entries in a relationship table referred to herein as a follows table.

While it is possible that two subsets of users may be identical it is also possible that for whatever reason some or all of the users in one subset of users may not be included in another subset of users. For instance some of the users in the customer specific collaboration group may include tech support or administrative personnel who may not be needed in or authorized to view the information disseminated in the sales opportunity specific collaboration group. For example the sales opportunity specific collaboration group may consist of sales people members of the logistics team and executives who are essential to close the deal and users who otherwise have need or authorization to view the information shared among the users of the sales opportunity specific collaboration group.

To share information with users in a collaboration group an activity feed may be associated with the collaboration group and defined to include information relevant to the goal of the collaboration group. In reference to the sales opportunity specific collaboration group an associated activity feed may include information about activity involving an object that represents the particular sales opportunity. Accordingly any information about specific events involving the sales opportunity object can be pushed to the associated activity feed as activity feed items. The member users who follow the group may then be allowed to see the activity feed items in the activity feed associated with the collaboration group or in their own personal user feeds. Activity feeds that are associated with a collaboration group are sometimes referred to herein as collaboration group feeds. Activity feeds that are associated with particular users are sometimes referred to herein as user feeds.

In some scenarios it is possible that users who follow a particular collaboration group may not be authorized to access the sales opportunity object by the external application that maintains or services the object. To avoid exposing sensitive or restricted object specific information to users in collaboration groups who are not authorized to access particular objects associated with the group requires careful consideration when designating which users are allowed to follow which groups. Creating the appropriate entries in the follows table would require checking each user s authorization to access object specific information that may currently or potentially be shared in the collaboration group feed before they would be allowed to follow the corresponding collaboration group. Combing through all of the possible user and object combinations for a particular group is not only labor intensive and prone to error it also reduces the flexibility of a collaboration to change goals or incorporate information from new or unforeseen external objects. To avoid potentially exposing sensitive information about a newly incorporated object to unauthorized member users of the collaboration group the authorization of each existing member to access the new object would need to be confirmed. For any users that are not authorized to view information about the new object the corresponding entries in the follows table would need to be altered or deleted thus removing the unauthorized user from the collaboration group. Removing a user from a collaboration group who is unauthorized to view information about a particular object may be undesirable if that user may be needed for collaborating on other information shared in the corresponding collaboration group feed. This is particularly true in situations where the new objects are only incidentally or infrequently referred to in the collaboration group feed.

For the sake of clarity the terms objects and business objects can be used interchangeably in the description of various embodiments of the present disclosure. While the term object can be used in reference to generic software solutions the term business object is used in specific scenarios concerning business management software solutions. In business management software solutions the term business object is used to refer to programming objects used in programming the software that relates to a particular thing in a real world business context. A business object for example may be used to contain information relating to a customer account. Whereas a computer program may implement classes which typically result in programming objects such as business objects managing or executing behaviors a business object usually does nothing itself but instead holds a set of instance variables or properties also known as attributes and associations with other business objects weaving a map of objects representing the business relationships. The attributes may define features of the thing which the business object is related to. The associations may define a business object s relationship to other business objects.

In general a business object is a code construct e.g. a data structure that corresponds directly to a thing in the actual business and the actual business uses software e.g. a computer program to manipulate the business object as real world activities take place that are related to the thing. For example when a sales order is fulfilled the business object may be altered to represent data reflecting that real world event.

The business object encapsulates the business logic related to the thing and encapsulates the data that is required by the logic and also describes defines makes up is contained by or is associated with the thing. In general the thing is recognizable to a non technical person familiar with the business like the users business analysts etc. Each object has data that describes or is attributed to the object and methods that make decisions based on that data. For example a customer account BO may have a customer name attribute and market capitalization attribute data and may also have related methods such as create modify and read for performing actions relating to the BO. Things may be tangible objects with real world meanings or may be conceptual objects that relate to the business and its business processes.

As noted above the general term business object may be more precisely stated by using two other terms business object instance and business object class. A business object instance refers to a specific business object often including specific data that is processed by the data processing system whereas a business object class refers to a general class of business object which may itself serve as a template for business object instances. Example business object classes include a purchase order a sales order etc. corresponding instances include a specific purchase order with specific data a specific sales order with specific data etc. Embodiments use both business object classes as well as business object instances often the general term business object may be used to describe both since the more precise term is clear from the context.

The collaboration system may include mechanisms for receiving information from multiple users using corresponding client computing devices. The information received from the users may include any type of electronic data including but not limited to text comments files hyperlinks or network addresses to particular objects or data. To organize information received from the user s the collaboration system may create a one or more collaboration groups .

In some embodiments collaboration groups provide the main mechanism by which users may share information with other users of the collaboration system . The collaboration groups can be defined by various attributes. In some embodiments the attributes of the collaboration groups include a listing of the member users who may access the information shared in the collaboration group and or a listing of the member users who may post information to the collaboration group . Accordingly some of the users associated with a particular collaboration group may be authorized to add or edit information e.g. start conversation threads post comments to the conversation threads etc. while some of the users associated with the particular collaboration group may be limited in how they may participate in a particular collaboration group . For example some of the users associated with the collaboration group may only be authorized to view the information posted by other member users of the collaboration group . Accordingly in various embodiments of the present disclosure different member users of a collaboration group may be organized into or associated with different levels of group membership that define what actions they may take or how they may otherwise participate within the collaboration group .

Each collaboration group may include an activity feed . In various embodiments the activity feed is the mechanism by which information is shared among the member users of a particular collaboration group . In some embodiments the activity feed may include an organized listing of comments posted by various users . Some activity feeds may be organized chronologically. For example the most recently added information may be listed at the top of a list while previously added information may be pushed farther down the list as new information is added.

In addition the activity feed may also include indications of topical references. For example as member users post comments other users may respond to those comments. Comments directed towards similar topics can be grouped chronologically relative to the other related comments. Other specific details of activity feeds of specific collaboration groups will be discussed in more detail herein in reference to other figures and specific examples.

In addition to providing a mechanism by which users can directly share information with one or more other member users of a particular collaboration group the collaboration system may also include information received regarding activity in various external applications . illustrates a system according to various embodiments that includes a network topology for connecting users external applications and collaboration system over various networks connections and .

In such embodiments the collaboration system may include corresponding connections with N external applications where N is a natural number. The connections may include various types of electronic communication media and protocols. Similarly the client computing devices used by the user to communicate with the collaboration system may also be used to connect to and interact with one or more of the external applications over corresponding connections . In the specific example shown user is authorized to connect to and use external applications and using connections and . User is authorized to connect to and use external applications and over connections and . Similarly user is authorized to connect to and use external application over connections and user M is authorized to connect to and use external applications and N over connections and P.

As the external applications perform their various internal functions and activities the external applications may push information about the activities to the collaboration system over connections . The information in one or more the external applications may include information about activity involving a particular object instantiated in or maintained by those external applications . In addition information about activity involving particular objects in one or more of the external applications may include information about which one or more of the users initiated or completed the activity. For example the information may include data that indicates that user changed one or more attributes of an object in the external application .

When the collaboration system receives information from an external application it can create a corresponding event item that includes some or all of the information in an event table. The collaboration system may then route the event to one or more previously or dynamically determined collaboration groups so that the information can be included in a corresponding activity feed .

In some embodiments when information from an external application is received the collaboration system may determine to distribute the information in the activity feed of a particular collaboration group or to one or more users based on their authorization access level to the corresponding collaboration group and or the external application . In such embodiments information received from external application may or may not be available to some or all of the member users of a particular collaboration group due to limitations imposed by the external application. The limitations imposed by the external application may include restrictions that define which member users have access to that particular information in the external application or in a particular external object. Accordingly for a particular user to be able to view information received from a particular external application about a particular object in activity feed of a collaboration group to which that user belongs that user must also have permission to view that information based on permissions granted by the external application .

Such embodiments advantageously provide a layer of security that prevents information from an external application from being distributed to member users of a collaboration group who would otherwise not have access to the information or the external application independently. As previously stated embodiments of the present disclosure advantageously allow for the integration of information from external applications into an existing collaboration system collaboration groups without compromising the security of the external applications .

To illustrate this advantage depicts a specific example system in which a collaboration system is implemented as an enterprise social network e.g. SAP Jam in a business system that includes example external applications customer relationship management CRM application a source control application and a document control application . The system or the enterprise social network may also be connected to an enterprise resource planning ERP application N implemented in an external system e.g. in a separate cloud computing environment .

CRM may not include its own collaboration system or module. However information about activity handled or performed by the CRM may be pushed to the enterprise social network . The information pushed to the enterprise social networking by the CRM may include information about activity involving a particular business object resident in the CRM .

For instance the CRM may include a number of opportunity business objects that represent corresponding sales opportunities to particular target customers. In one specific example user M may be a sales team manager who creates a sales opportunity business object in CRM that represents a potential sale of a particular product to a particular customer. When the sales manager creates the sales opportunity business object i.e. requests the CRM to create an instance of a sales opportunity class he may define various attributes such as the customer name the members of the sales team the dollar value of the potential revenue and the like. Accordingly members of the sales team and any other users that the sales manager explicitly grants permission will be considered authorized users with respect to the sales opportunity business object in the CRM .

In some embodiments all authorized users of the particular business object will be authorized with full access and editing permissions. However in other embodiments the authorized users of the particular business object may be assigned differing levels of access and editing permissions. For example the sales team manager who created the sales opportunity business object may have full and unrestricted permission to change edit or delete the sales opportunity business object while other authorized users may only be able to view or make limited changes according to their authorization level.

The status of a particular user as an authorized user and or his respective authorization level in the CRM may be referenced by various embodiments of the present disclosure to determine whether an event involving the relevant business object will be routed to an activity feed viewable by the user. In yet other embodiments the listing of a particular user as an authorized user of a particular business object may be referenced by various embodiments of the present disclosure to determine whether an activity feed item representing a previously routed event will be shown to the particular user. Accordingly the determination that a particular user is an authorized user of a particular object may be used to determine what event information is routed to that user s individual user feed and or which activity feed items will be shown to that user in a group feed that the user follows.

Embodiments of the present disclosure address two aspects of routing events to activity feeds viewable by various users. The one phase involves routing events received from an external application or comments received from other users of a particular collaboration system to one or more activity feeds associated with a collaboration group or a particular user. Another phase involves verifying the continued authorization of a particular user to view activity feed items previously routed to activity feeds associated with a collaboration group or a particular user.

As shown the external application may send activity information to the collaboration system . In one embodiment the external application may push the activity information any time an event occurs involving one or more of the business objects . Activity that may that trigger the external application to send activity information to the collaboration system may include any change such as editing deleting and the like to one or more of the business objects . For example a user may access the external application to perform an operation e.g. create change edit etc. on one of the business objects . As used herein any action or operation performed by a user or the external application on one or more of the business objects is considered an event. When the external application detects an event it may send activity information about the event to the collaboration system.

In some embodiments the activity information can include basic information about the who what when where and why a particular business object was altered. Accordingly the activity information can include the name or identifier of a user who initiated the event activity a name or identifier of the relevant business object a description of the action or operation e.g. which attribute of the object was changed and how it was changed and a timestamp associated with the event activity and a description or code designating why the activity was carried out e.g. the original information was incorrect or new information was discovered . In addition to the specifics about the event the activity information may also include an indication of one or more target activity feeds to which the event should be routed. For example the activity information may include designation that one or more particular collaboration groups should create a feed item that represents the event.

Once the collaboration system receives the activity information the feed manager and the permissions manager can refer to various routing tables such as feeds tables main object tables and relationship tables to route the activity information to one or more activity feeds. The groupings or the various routings tables into feeds tables main object tables and relationship tables is only one example. In various embodiments of the present disclosure the feed manager and or the permission manager may be implemented as combinations of software firmware and hardware. Accordingly the functionality of the manager and permissions manager may be implemented in a single module or as separate modules as shown . In either implementation the feed manager or the permissions manager can access a collaboration system data store not shown containing the feeds tables the main object tables and the relationship tables to determine to which activity feeds the activity information should be routed.

In one embodiment feeds tables includes a comments table an events table a group feeds table and a user feeds table . Comments table is a table for receiving organizing and storing comments posted by users of the collaboration system . Events table is a table for receiving organizing and storing activity information about events that occur in one or more external applications involving one or more business objects and events that include comments. Group feeds table is a table for organizing and storing events to be routed to one or more collaboration groups as collaboration group feed items. Finally the feeds tables may also include user feeds table for organizing and storing events to be routed to one or more individual user feeds as user feed items.

The main object tables may include an external object table collaboration groups table and a users table . In various embodiments the external object table includes a listing of names and or identifiers of objects about which activity information can be routed. The collaboration groups table may include records of multiple collaboration group names or identifiers and names or identifiers of containers . In some embodiments these records are referred to as container group association records. The users table may include the names or user identifiers for the users authorized to access the collaboration system .

As used herein the term container refers to any data structure that contains the feed items related to a business object to be displayed within a collaboration group. The feed items in a particular container may be either hidden from or displayed to a particular user depending on the permissions described by an external application.

Relationship tables may include an ambassadors table and a follows table . In some embodiments the ambassadors table may include a number of ambassador relationships records that associate particular collaboration groups or containers with particular objects . In some embodiments the ambassador relationships records are referred to as object container records. The follows table may include associations between users and collaboration groups or containers .

As shown follows table defines a number of associations between users and collaboration groups. In some embodiments these associations of are referred to as user group association records. The associations in the follows tables define which users follow the activity feeds in various collaboration groups .

In the particular example shown the routing tables include a number of entries that define a particular set of routing rules for routing activity information to various activity feeds for a user A and a user B regarding activity in object A and object B. The example shown in includes a number of premises. For instance one premise is that the permissions in external application specify that user A may access object A and object B but user B can only access object A. Another premise of the configuration shown in is that both collaboration group A and collaboration group B track events involving object A. However only collaboration group A tracks events involving object B. This is reflected in the comparison of the ambassadors records in ambassadors table with the records in the collaborations groups table .

When the collaboration system receives or observes activity information regarding object A or object B it creates a corresponding event in the events table as an event or event record . Each event includes an object identifier and one or more other attributes. In some embodiments the attribute includes a description of a change to the associated object. In the specific example shown event indicates that a percentage of success in object A changed. Event indicates that the quota for object B was changed. In addition events table shows that Event 3 shows that comment 1 was newly created.

When an event is logged in the events table the feed manager or some other component of the collaboration system identifies the object identifier. The feed manager based on the object identifier for a particular event can reference the ambassadors table to retrieve an ambassador record and consequently a group or container associated with the object identifier. In the particular example shown event indicates that a change to object A has occurred. According to the ambassadors table object A is associated with container AA and container BA in the ambassador entries and . In this way any event created that involves object A can be included in the corresponding containers defined in the records of ambassadors table .

Once the containers are identified the feed manager can create corresponding group feed items in the group feeds tables . Each group feed item can include an association between a particular event and the container associated with the object for that event by the ambassadors in ambassadors table . Based on the information in the group feed items the feed manager can access collaboration groups table to determine one or more parent groups associated with the containers in each group feed item . Each group feed item includes an association between a particular container and a particular event . In the particular example shown in group feed items and associate event 1 with container AA and container BA. Based on the collaboration groups table the feed manager can determine that event 1 should be routed to collaboration group A and collaboration group B according to container entries and .

The next step is to determine which users follow which collaboration groups . In some embodiments this can be considered determining which users belong to which collaboration groups. In various embodiments of the present disclosure each group feed item can be routed to a collaboration group based on the collaboration groups table . Next referencing the follows table individual users can be identified who follow each of the collaboration groups . In the example shown follows table indicates that user A follows collaboration group A as indicated in follows entry AA user A also follows collaboration group B as indicated in follows entry AB and user B follows collaboration group A as indicated in follows entry BA .

Once the individual users who follow the relevant groups are identified the feed manager or the permissions manager can query the external application to ask which of the identified users have access to the related object . In this example since we are concerned with object A and object B the feed manager or the permission manager can query the external application to determine whether user A is authorized to access object A and what that level of authorization may be.

If the external application responds that user A does have access to object A then the feed manager may create a corresponding user feed item in the user feeds table that associates a user identifier for the user with a particular event. In this way embodiments of the present disclosure determine whether a particular event should be shown in a particular user feed based on determination of users who are authorized to view a particular event as defined by the routing tables and the permissions granted to users to access particular objects by the external application .

In action the collaboration system can generate an event item that includes an object identifier associated with the object in the external application and a description of the activity by analyzing the activity notification. In action the collaboration system can determine one or more ambassadors associated with the object identifier based on one or more routing tables . In one embodiment the collaboration system may access the ambassadors table to determine ambassadors associated with the object. The ambassadors may define an association between the object identifier and one or more containers. As used herein an ambassador provides a link at least among an event item one or more collaborations groups and one or more users through the various routing tables .

In action the collaboration system can retrieve one or more container identifiers associated with the ambassadors by accessing the ambassadors table . The collaboration system may then generate a corresponding collaboration group feed item or items that associate the containers defined by the ambassadors with the observed event in action . The collaboration group feed items can be stored in a group feeds table . The association between the containers and the observed event can be stored in the collaboration group feed items corresponding container identifiers associated with event identifiers.

In action the collaboration system can access a collaboration groups table to determine collaboration groups associated with the container containers or container identifiers. In some embodiments the relationship between a collaboration group and a container can be referred to a child parent relationship. For example a container may be associated with its parent collaboration group in the collaboration groups table .

Based on the collaboration groups associated with the containers and the objects by the corresponding ambassadors the collaboration system can determine which the users of the collaboration system follow the identified collaboration groups by accessing a follows table in action . A follows table may include entries that define which users follow which collaboration groups and their associated activity feeds. The users that are determined to follow specific collaboration groups can then be verified as authorized users by querying the external application that maintains the relevant object in the event . If the external application replies that the user is authorized to access the object in the event then that user will have access to the event . If the external application replies that the user is not authorized or has limited authorization to access the object then that user will have no access or limited access to the event . The level of access can be analogous to the permission granted to the user in the external application for the particular object .

In action the collaboration system can generate user feed items that associates authorized user with the event . The user feed items and collaboration group feeds items can then be used by the collaboration system to populate corresponding user feeds and collaboration group feeds when the user logs onto the collaboration system and requests to access the various activity feeds . In some embodiment only the events associated with the user in a corresponding user feed item will be shown to the user in the collaboration group feed that the user follows. If the user is not authorized to view the event in his or her corresponding user feed then that user will not be allowed to view the event based on his membership in a particular collaboration group.

The user interface may also include a number of collaboration group feeds . In the particular example shown the collaboration window includes a window for a sales team A collaboration group feed and a sales opportunity B collaboration group feed . Each collaboration group feed may include a number of collaboration group feed posts and rendered from the collaboration group feed items in the group feeds table . The collaboration group feed posts and are determined based on the routing tables . The user feed posts and are determined by the same routing tables and the permissions granted to the particular user by the external application for the relevant objects.

In action the collaboration system can retrieve all user feed items associated with the received user ID from a user feeds table .

In action the collaboration system can query the external application to determine whether the user is authorized to access external objects associated with the events specified in the feed items and . The collaboration system can then render the events associated with the user feed items as posts in a user feed associated with the requesting user in action . In some embodiments only user feed items with events associated with an object that the user is authorized to access will be rendered in the user s personal user feed.

In action the collaboration system may retrieve ambassadors associated with external objects from the ambassadors table for which the user is authorized to access. In action the collaboration system can determine collaboration groups associated with the ambassadors by referencing a collaboration groups table . The link between a particular collaboration group and an ambassador may be made through an intermediary container .

In action the collaboration system can retrieve the collaboration group feed items from the collaboration group feeds table that are associated with the ambassadors or relevant containers and the parent collaboration groups . The collaboration system can then render the collaboration group feed items as posts in the corresponding collaboration group feeds for the user in action .

An example computer system is illustrated in . Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and one or more processor s coupled with bus for processing information. One or more processor s may take various forms including microcontrollers and microprocessors such as programmable devices e.g. CPLDs and FPGAs and nonprogrammable devices such as gate array ASICs or general purpose microprocessors. Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor including information and instructions for performing some of the techniques described above for example. This memory may also be used for storing programs executed by processor . Memory may comprise a single or multiple storage components or devices. Possible implementations of this memory may be but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM or both. A storage device is also provided for storing information and instructions. Common forms of storage devices include for example a hard drive a magnetic disk an optical disk a CD ROM a DVD a flash or other non volatile memory a USB memory card or any other medium from which a computer can read. Storage device may include source code binary code or software files for performing the techniques above for example. Storage device and memory may both include any suitable non transitory computer readable media such as those described herein. Memory and storage device may comprise a single or multiple memory or storage components or devices respectively.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to an output device for providing information to a computer user. Output device may take the form of a display or speakers for example. An input device such as a keyboard touchscreen mouse and or microphone may be coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections from the user to processor . The combination of these components allows the user to communicate with the system. In some systems bus may represent multiple specialized buses for example.

Computer system also includes a network interface coupled with bus . Network interface may provide two way data communication between computer system and a local network . The network interface may be a wireless or wired connection for example. Computer system may send and receive information through the network interface across a local area network an Intranet a cellular network or the Internet for example. One example implementation may include computing system acting as a central cache server that implements a cache safe mode solution to address instability at any cache server of a distribute cache server system as described above. In the Internet example computing system may be accessed by the mobile devices through a wireless connection to the Internet for example and computing system may access data and features on backend systems that may reside on multiple different hardware servers across the network. Servers and server applications may also reside in a cloud computing environment for example. Various embodiments may be practiced in a wide variety of network environments including for example TCP IP based networks telecommunications networks cellular communications networks wireless networks etc. or combinations of different network types.

As noted above the apparatuses methods and techniques described below may be implemented as a computer program software executing on one or more computers. The computer program may further be stored on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium such as a memory or disk for example. A computer readable medium may include instructions for performing the processes described herein. Examples of such computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory devices ROM and random access memory RAM .

In addition the computer program instructions with which various embodiments of this disclosure are implemented may be executed according to a variety of computing models including a client server model a peer to peer model on a stand alone computing device or according to a distributed computing model in which various functions described herein may be performed at different locations.

The above description illustrates various embodiments of the present invention along with examples of how aspects of the present disclosure may be implemented. The above examples and embodiments should not be deemed to be the only embodiments and are presented to illustrate the flexibility and advantages of the present invention as defined by the following claims. Based on the above disclosure and the following claims other arrangements embodiments implementations and equivalents will be evident to those skilled in the art and may be employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims.

