---

title: Cross-lingual seeding of sentiment
abstract: A contact center system can receive messages from social media sites or centers. The messages may be in a foreign language. The system can review messages by identifying content in the social media messages with negative/positive sentiment and then identify a seed term in the messages. A seed term can be a word in another language, different from the message body. The seed term is then used to find one or more other words, in the foreign language, that are correlated with the seed term. The identification of the found words in other messages can then be used to determine sentiment in the foreign language.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438732&OS=09438732&RS=09438732
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09438732
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130909
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61 809 737 filed Apr. 8 2013 entitled SENTIMENT FOR USE IN CONNECTION WITH CONTACT CENTER COMMUNICATIONS which is incorporated herein by reference for all that it teaches and for all purposes.

Communication with customers and the importance of addressing customer concerns continues to grow in importance. Sentiment is generally regarded as an opinion or attitude towards something or someone or the expression of the opinion or attitude. With written global communications on the rise companies are developing methods and systems to determine sentiment when communications include information about the company. It may be critically important for reputation and branding to be able to respond quickly to expressed written sentiment especially if it is negative .

Current methods of determining sentiment are either ineffective or inefficient especially when analyzing messages in different languages. For example emoticons are often used but may be culturally ambiguous and are not good indicators especially in a noisy environment. The company needs an efficient way to determine that a message even in a foreign language is negative and requires agent attention.

It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. Embodiments include a method for determining sentiment in a foreign language the method comprising retrieving one or more sentiment terms with known sentiment in the foreign language wherein the one or more terms are associated with one or more seed terms in one or more different languages identifying by a processor a first term of the one or more terms associated with a seed term in a message and based on the identification of the first term determining that the message has a known sentiment.

An aspect of the above method includes further comprises receiving a second message in the foreign language identifying a seed term within the second message analyzing the second message for a sentiment term in the foreign language and storing the sentiment term.

An aspect of the above method further comprises determining statistical information about the sentiment term.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the statistical information includes a confidence score that the sentiment term indicates a sentiment and wherein the sentiment may be positive or negative.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein the confidence score is a probability the method further comprises determining if the confidence score reaches or crosses a predetermined threshold and if the confidence score reaches or crosses the predetermined threshold signifying that the sentiment term indicates a known sentiment.

An aspect of the above method further comprising if the confidence score does not reach or cross the predetermined threshold receiving a third message re calculating the confidence score using analysis associated with the third message.

An aspect of the above method includes wherein each seeding term includes two or more sentiment terms associated therewith.

An aspect of the above method further comprises analyzing a known negative positive message identifying seeding terms and storing the seeding terms.

A computer readable medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions that cause a computing system to execute a method for generating an agent routing the instructions comprising instructions to receive a first message in the foreign language instructions to identify a seed term within the first message wherein the seed term is in a different language instructions to analyze the first message for a sentiment term in the foreign language instructions to store the sentiment term instructions to retrieve the sentiment term with known sentiment in the foreign language instructions to identify the sentiment term associated with a seed term in a second message and based on the identification of the sentiment term instructions to determine that the second message has a known sentiment.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium further comprises instructions to determine statistical information about the sentiment term wherein the statistical information includes a confidence score that the sentiment term indicates a sentiment.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium further comprises instructions to determine if the confidence score reaches or crosses a predetermined threshold if the confidence score reaches or crosses the predetermined threshold instructions to signify that the sentiment term indicates a known sentiment if the confidence score does not reach or cross the predetermined threshold instructions to receive a third message and instructions to re calculate the confidence score use analysis associated with the third message.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein each seeding term includes two or more sentiment terms associated therewith.

An aspect of the above computer readable medium includes wherein each message includes two or more seeding terms and wherein at least one of the seeding terms is in English.

A communication system comprising a social media gateway in communication with a social media network the social media gateway operable to receive a social media message from a customer on the social media network a dialog system in communication with the social media gateway the dialog system operable to determine an agent routing for the social media message wherein the dialog system compromises a text processing component that is operable to receive and analyze the social media message wherein the text processing component compromises a seed term identifier operable to receive a first message in the foreign language identify a seed term within the first message wherein the seed term is in a different language a negative term identifier in communication with the seed term identifier wherein the negative term identifier is operable to analyze the first message for a sentiment term in the foreign language a parser in communication with the negative term identifier wherein the parser is operable store the sentiment term a negative message identifier in communication with the parser wherein the negative message identifier is operable to retrieve the sentiment term with known sentiment in the foreign language identify the sentiment term associated with a seed term in a second message and based on the identification of the sentiment term determine that the second message has a known sentiment.

An aspect of the above communication system further comprises a statistics analyzer in communication with the parser wherein the statistics analyzer is operable to determine statistical information about the sentiment term wherein the statistical information includes a confidence score that the sentiment term indicates a sentiment.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein the statistics analyzer is further operable to determine if the confidence score reaches or crosses a predetermined threshold if the confidence score reaches or crosses the predetermined threshold signify that the sentiment term indicates a known sentiment if the confidence score does not reach or cross the predetermined threshold receive a third message and instructions to re calculate the confidence score use analysis associated with the third message.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein each seeding term includes two or more sentiment terms associated therewith.

An aspect of the above communication system includes wherein each message includes two or more seeding terms and wherein at least one of the seeding terms is in English.

English is sometimes called the uniform language of anger sentiment. There are many ways that anger can be expressed in writing in English and at least some of these methods are adopted across cultures. With the widespread use of social media certain English phrases and expressions transcend language barriers. Examples might include fail Sucks awesome best success etc. These phrases or terms may be used across many languages.

Embodiments herein can derive sentiment from known words. Then the system can identify English and or other known language keywords from dialogs using text analysis and natural language processing. The system thereinafter can locate these words in messages and can create continuous derivatives.

For example in the case of using the Japanese language to create a Korean sentiment dictionary the system can monitor for similar co occurrence modeling and keywords in each language. By watching polarity seed words and other distinctive features with a large number of occurrences the system can provide word correlation between language sets. This correlation allows for significantly less translation and expense in creating a sentiment dictionary.

Another example might be when trying to expand sentiment to the French language the system can use the hash tag fail as a seeding term. The system then may monitor messages on social media for the seed term fail when those messages are in French and or some other appropriate query for the channel. The language identifier may additionally find posts in a targeted language with a simple query of fail. By accumulating a large volume of messages containing fail in French the system can use co occur and other processing techniques to derive a common pattern of words in French posts with fail. Since fail is negative these newly identified words in French from the posts can then be added to the French sentiment dictionary as negative terms. Once added improved identification of French sentiment is possible on posts comments without fail. The system may then be used iteratively to expand language coverage and expand seed words for both positive and negative sentiment.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term seed term can refer to a word character emoticon punctuation etc. or some combination thereof in a first language that connotes sentiment in the first language. The seed term may connote a positive or negative sentiment. Further the seed term may be universal in that the seed term may be used by people who do not speak or write the first language.

The term sentiment term can refer to a word character etc. in a native language that connotes sentiment in the native language. The sentiment term may connote a positive or negative sentiment.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the invention is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present invention are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the invention is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated that individual aspects can be separately claimed.

The term in communication with as used herein refers to any coupling connection or interaction using electrical signals to exchange information or data using any system hardware software protocol or format.

A user context an extended user context and or a user social context as used herein means information about a user of a social media network that can be used to determine a value of that user.

The term social media network or social media is a service provider that builds online communities of people who share interests and or activities or who are interested in exploring the interests and activities of others. Generally social media are web based and provide a variety of ways for users to interact such as e mail and instant messaging services.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a letter that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. Various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements of the embodiment without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

A block diagram depicting components of a communication system is shown in . In particular the communication system can include a contact center . In general the contact center can be in communication with one or more customer endpoints or devices via one or more communication networks . Examples of customer endpoints can include one or more of but are not limited to smartphones desktop computers laptop computers or any other device capable of supporting communications between a customer and a customer service or other agent associated with the contact center using written oral and or electronic communications. Accordingly communications between the contact center and the customer endpoints can comprise email instant messaging a telephone call short message system or other real time or non real time communications. The communication network can include the Internet a local area network LAN wide area network WAN public switched telephone network PSTN wireless networks or a plurality of networks in any combination.

The contact center generally includes a call or contact center server such as an automatic contact or call distribution system ACD server . The ACD server is illustratively the Communication Manager enterprise communication based ACD system available from Avaya Inc. The ACD server is interconnected to a plurality of agent workstations or endpoints . For example the agent workstations may be connected to the ACD server by an enterprise network or networks .

The contact center server generally functions to connect agent workstations to customer devices or endpoints through the communication network to allow the agents to service customer contacts . The contacts can comprise written electronic communications. However contacts are not necessarily limited to written communications. For example the contact center can additionally handle voice contacts. As can be appreciated by one of skill in the art after consideration of the present disclosure the contact center server can maintain one or more queues for organizing and maintaining or holding contacts waiting for handling by a contact center agent . For example a plurality of queues can be provided to sort contacts according to various parameters. Agents associated with the agent workstations are assigned to provide services to contacts that have been placed within one or more of the queues based on availability and or weighting factors. Moreover the workstations which can comprise general purpose computers thin client devices or other devices generally support the delivery of customer contacts to associated agents and to receive replies to the customer contacts from the agents . In addition the agent workstations can include a user output in the form of a display that can present a determined sentiment or sentiment indicator for a contact or aggregation of contacts to associated agents .

In addition system as described herein can include one or more supervisor or administrator devices . The supervisor device is generally in communication with the contact center server via the communication network and or the enterprise network . For example if the supervisor device is on the premises of the contact center communications with the contact center server may be over a portion of the enterprise network comprising a wired or wireless network. As another example the supervisor device may be in communication with the contact center server over the communication network for example via a cellular telephony data network a wired or wireless connection outside of the enterprise network or the like. In general the supervisor device comprises functionality that allows a supervisor to monitor the health of the contact center and to control aspects of the operation of the contact center . Moreover the supervisor device can present a sentiment indicator for a contact or aggregation of contacts to a supervisor . Accordingly the supervisor device can comprise any device including a mobile device capable of presenting information to a supervisor . Accordingly examples of a supervisor device include but are not limited to a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer a desktop computer a netbook or the like.

A further embodiment of the communication system for interacting with persons using social media is shown in . The communication system can include a contact center a network and one or more types of social media networks or systems such as social media network social media network and or social media network . Social media networks and or can be any social media including but not limited to networks websites or computer enabled systems. For example a social media network may be MySpace Facebook Twitter Linked In Spoke Sina Weibo Pantip or other similar computer enabled systems or websites. The communication system can communicate with more or fewer social media networks and or than those shown as represented by ellipses .

The network s can be any network as described in conjunction with which allow communication between the contact center and the one or more social media networks and or . The network s can represent any communication system whether wired or wireless using any protocol and or format. The network s provides communication capability for the contact center to communicate with websites or systems corresponding to the one or more social media networks and or . The network s may be as described in conjunction with .

A contact center can be a system that can communicate with one or more persons that use social media networking sites and or . The contact center can be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The contact center can be executed by one or more servers or computer systems as described in conjunction with . The contact center can include all systems whether hardware or software that allow the contact center to receive service and respond to directed and non directed contacts. For example the contact center can include the telephone or email system an interface to human agents systems to allow human agents to service and respond to received contacts and one or more systems operable to analyze and improve the function of agent interaction.

The contact center may include a dialog system and a social media gateway . While the dialog system and the social media gateway are shown as being a part of the contact center system in other situations the dialog system and or the social media gateway are separate systems or functions executed separately from the contact center and or executed by a third party. The dialog system may process and receive messages. The social media gateway can receive and translate messages from the one or more social media networks and or . An embodiment of the dialog system is described in conjunction with . An embodiment of the social media gateway is described in conjunction with .

The contact center may also communicate with one or more communication devices . The communication devices can represent a customer s or user s cell phone email system personal digital assistant laptop computer or other device that allows the contact center to interact with the customer. The contact center can modify a non direct contact from a social media network and or into a directed contact by sending a response message directly to a customer s communication device .

An embodiment of the social media gateway is shown in . The social media gateway can include one or more components which may include hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The social media gateway can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other hardware.

Herein the social media gateway can include one or more content filters and or . A content filter can receive all of the messages for the contact center from a social media network and or and eliminate or delete those messages that do not require a response. For example a message between two friends on a Facebook page if not pertaining to a product or a service of the company operating the contact center may not need a response. As such the content filter can filter out or delete the non suitable message from the messages that are received by the social media network application programming interface API social media network API and or social media network API . With the content filter the social media network API only needs to convert to a common message format for those messages that should be received by the dialog system .

The content filter is provided with one or more heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown . These filter rules can be created by the external customer or internal user e.g. agent or administrator of the communication system . Thus the user or customer of the communication system can customize the filtering of messages from social media networks and or . Further different rules may be applied to different social media networks and or as some social media networks and or may have different types of messages or postings than other types of social media networks and or . While the content filter is shown as part of the social media gateway it is to be appreciated that the content filter may be a part of the social media network API . The content filter may correspond to query terms used by the social media network API . The content filter or query terms are an argument to the social media network API call.

The social media network API can be an application which may be provided by the social media network and or to access the social media network s and or . Thus the social media network API is called and connects the social media gateway to the social media network and or . Any suitable filter criteria may be employed for social media API . Examples of filter criteria include positive content of the source of a posting an address field a destination or recipient address fields a time stamp field a subject matter field and or a message body field. For example a type of searchable content can be the name of the business enterprise running or employing the contact center and or the products or services of the enterprise.

The social media gateway can include one or more social media network APIs . As shown in the social media gateway may include a social media network API for each social media network and or . As such the social media gateway can interact with each social media network and or in the particular often unique format or protocol used by the social media network and or . Further when new social media networks are created the social media gateway can be easily expanded to interact with those social media networks by adding another social media network API . Where social media networks and or are more standardized or use substantially similar formats or protocols a single social media network API can be shared by multiple social media networks and or .

The social media network API can receive messages from and send messages to the social media network and or . The social media network API can translate a message received from a social media network and or and send the translated message to a message filter . The social media network API can translate the received message into a standard formatted file. For example the translated message may be represented by an extensible mark up language XML file or other file having a general format. As such each specific and particular social media network message can be translated into a standard format for use by the dialog system . Further the social media network API can receive a generally or standard format response message from the dialog system and translate that response into a particularly or specifically formatted response message that can be posted to the corresponding social media network and or .

Messages to the contact center are addressed to the contact center . For example a customer may become a friend of the contact center on a social media network and or such as Facebook . The customer may then address a message to the contact center on Facebook . This non direct contact is a message that is not sent directly to the contact center but to the contact center s Facebook page. In other circumstances the contact center receives messages not addressed to the contact center . For example the contact center can receive tweets from Twitter that are broadcast rather than addressed to the contact center . The contact center may also search for messages or content on the social media networks and or . Exemplary search criteria include customer name customer profession customer home address customer business address customer employer name customer educational or professional background customer hobby personal or business interests customer family profile and the like. Thus the social media gateway of the contact center can query gather or connect to a live feed of data from a social media network and or and then apply a filter to the indirect information.

Further the social media network API can also retrieve user context or other extended information from the social media networks and or . User context or other extended information can include historical posts historical tweets or other historical communications that a user may have received or sent. Further user context or other extended information can include but is not limited to account information for a user the user s followers or friends information on where historical messages were posted e.g. geo location time date what type of device etc. trending analysis that the social media network and or might provide the user etc. Thus the social media network API can retrieve information that is associated with a user and a social media network and or but not necessarily a part of a current message. The social media network API is a gatherer of data which can be used to determine a value for the user of the social media networks and or .

The translated messages from the social media network API can be received by a message filter . A message filter can perform some or all of the functions of the content filter and eliminate messages before being sent to the dialog system . However in other situations the message filter eliminates information from within the messages before the redacted messages are sent to the dialog system . For example a message from a social media network and or may have three or four interactions between two parties not associated with the contact center . Only one of the several postings may be pertinent to the dialog system . As such the message filter can eliminate or delete at least a portion of the other messages for the dialog system . Thus the dialog system receives a message where some of the content of the message has been deleted.

The message filter can retrieve heuristics or filter rules from a filter database not shown similar to the content filter . A substantial difference between the content and message filters and is that the content filter is specific to a particular message format associated with a corresponding social media network and or while the message filter is applied to a standardized or universal format and is therefore common to multiple social media networks and or . One skilled in the art will understand the type of rules that may be used to filter information from messages such that only pertinent questions facts requests or information is sent to the dialog system .

A message aggregator may also be included with the social media gateway . A message aggregator can in contrast to the message filter combine two or more messages into a packet or grouping that is sent to the dialog system . Therefore the message aggregator can interrelate or combine messages based on information within the messages. For example two messages may be combined based on any of the message fields referenced above such as the person that posted the message the subject the request or question asked the person the message was sent to or other information that may be pertinent to the dialog system . Thus the dialog system may be able to respond concurrently to two or more messages based on a grouping provided by the message aggregator . Regardless of whether the messages are aggregated each message or grouping of messages can be sent from the social media gateway to the dialog system .

The social media gateway can also send responses back to the social media networks and or . A response from an agent in the contact center can be sent to the social media gateway . The response may be received in a general format and then translated. The translated response may then be posted to the appropriate social media network and or by the social media gateway . In other embodiments the agent may post the response directly to the social media network and or without sending the response to the social media gateway .

An embodiment of the dialog system is shown in . The dialog system can include one or more components which may be hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The dialog system can be executed by a computer system such as those described in conjunction with . However in other embodiments the components described in conjunction with are logic circuits or other specially designed hardware that are embodied in a FPGA or ASIC. The components contained within the dialog system can include a dialog core that is communication with a message history database an agent interface and a heuristic rules and dialogs database . Further the heuristic rules and dialogs database can be in communication with a dialog creator .

The dialog core can include one or more sub components. For example the dialog core can include a trend analysis component a text processing component and an analysis tools component . These components similar to the components for the dialog system can be hardware software or combination of hardware and software. The dialog core may step through the states of a dialog data structure. A dialog data structure can include a set of inputs and associated actions that can be taken which allow for the automatic and structured response to social media requests or messages. For example if a user asks for a manual the input of the text word manual can cause the dialog system in accordance with a dialog data structure to send information about one or more manuals. In turn the receiver of the response may respond in kind with the selection of a certain user manual. In which case the dialog data structure may then instruct the dialog core to send the user to a website where the user can retrieve an electronic version of the manual. As such the dialog data structure provides a script a dialog that allows the dialog core to automate the interaction between the contact center and a person. This automation eliminates the need for agent involvement in some situations and makes the contact center more efficient and more effective. Further the automation expands the contact center s ability to answer numerous messages from the plethora of postings on the numerous social media networks and or .

The dialog creator can create a dialog data structure that includes instructions for various states for each social media message that comes into the contact center . The first instruction might be to send the social media message to the trend analysis component then to the text processing component and then execute a query of a Customer Relationship Management CRM database to determine if this user has an existing order . A CRM database can be a database as described in conjunction with and can store information about customers or other data related to customer relations. Finally the dialog data structure may decide that the social media message should be sent to a human agent for processing. The instructions or node transitions are executed in the dialog core and make use of many different components that the dialog creator combines in any way the user desires to handle the social media messages. The dialog core can make use of the trend analysis component text processing component or other systems. The dialog core may also interface with a CRM system and or database external databases social media user information e.g. followers friends post history etc. from the social media site or other systems.

The trend analysis component is operable to analyze trends that occur between two or more messages received by the social media networks and or . The two messages can be from different social media network and or so that the trend analysis component can identify trends across several different social media networks and or . Trends can include multiple occurrences of the same word or phrase multiple occurrences of a customer identity product name or service or multiple occurrences of some other information that might indicate a trend. Further the trend analysis component may be able to identify escalations in the occurrences of particular text identities or other information or may identify multiple occurrences over a period of time. The trend analysis component may also be able to apply one or more different algorithms to occurrences of information within the social media networks and or . For example the trend analysis component can match the number of occurrences of a phrase or word over a period of time and apply analysis to determine if the occurrences are increasing or decreasing over the period of time.

The text processing component is operable to analyze text of one or more messages from social media networks or or other contacts. Some possible methods for text processing can include Regular Expression Latent Semantic Indexing LSI text part of speech tagging text clustering N Gram document analysis etc. In addition for possibly longer documents such as blogs or emails the text processing component may execute one or more methods of document summarization. The summarization may occur if the social media message will be sent to an agent of the contact center the summarization can reduce the amount of information that the agent may manage. The text processing rules or models may be stored in and or retrieved from a text processing rules database . The text processing rules database can be a database as described in conjunction with that stores rules or models used by the text processing component .

The text processing component can identify one or more occurrences of a particular text such as using one or more of the message fields referenced above in order to associate that social media message with one or more dialogs data structures in the heuristic rules and dialog database . For example the text processing component can look for the word manual in the social media message. If the word manual is found the text processing component may retrieve a dialog data structure from the heuristic rules and dialogs database and as the dialog data structure instructs communicate with the customer about one or more owner s manuals repair manuals or other types of manuals. In another example if the social media message includes the words buy sell price discount or other types of words that may indicate the user or customer wishes to buy a product the text processing component can retrieve one or more dialog data structures from the heuristic rules and dialogs database that can provide instruction to assist the customer in purchasing products or services from the enterprise.

The analysis tools component is operable to analyze response messages received back from an agent interface . In analyzing the agent s responses the analysis tools component can determine if the dialog data structures originally retrieved by the text processing component met the needs of the customer. In the analysis the agent may enter one or more items of information for the analysis tools component about the response and about how the response matched with the dialog data structures. The analysis tools component can review the response and determine if it was similar to the response provided by the dialog data structure. Thus the analysis tools component can provide information to the dialog core or the dialog creator to improve the dialog data structures that are included in the heuristic rules and dialogs database .

The message history database can be any database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . Thus the message history database can store data in data fields objects or other data structures to allow other systems to retrieve that information at a later time. The message history database can store previous messages or information about previous messages. Thus for example if the trend analysis component is analyzing several messages over a period of time the trend analysis component can retrieve information about previous messages associated with the current analysis from the message history database . As such the trend analysis component can better detect trends occurring at the social media networks and or . The data stored by the message history database can include the entire message or only a portion of the message and in some circumstances include metadata about the message s .

The heuristic rules and dialogs database can be any type of database or data storage system as described in conjunction with . The heuristic rules and dialogs database can store information in data fields data objects and or any other data structures. The heuristic rules and dialogs database stores rules and dialogs data structures that automate responses to received social media messages. The dialogs data structures control the interaction between the dialog core and the social media network and or . The dialogs or heuristic rules can be created by a dialog creator . Thus the dialog creator can interface with user input to receive information about dialogs. The user input is then used to form the states and responses for a dialog data structure.

An agent interface is a communication system operable to send action items to contact center agents in the contact center . An agent can be a person or other system that is operable to respond to certain questions or requests from a customer. For example the agent can be a person that has specialized expertise in a topic area such as technical support. The agent interface can format the social message into an action item and forward that message to one or more agents . The agent interface can also receive response s back from the agents . The information provided by the agent may be used by the dialog core to complete a response to the social media message or other contact. For example the information may classify the social media message e.g. sales service etc. . In other situations the response is a complete response to the social media message that can be posted to the social media network and or . It should be noted that the answer based agent routing described hereinafter may be implemented in other types of call center or customer service centers other than that previously described. Thus the answer based agent routing systems and methods described hereinafter are not limited to the social media call center described above.

An embodiment of a text processing component is shown in . As explained previously the text processing component can be a module that is embodied in hardware software and or hardware and software. The text processing component can include one or more sub modules or components. These components may provide certain functionality and be able to access one or more databases. The databases can include a seed terms database a negative positive terms database and a statistics database . These databases may be flat file databases relational databases or any other type of database used to store retrieve and manage information or data. The seed terms database can include one or more seed terms described herein. The negative positive terms database can include the one or more negative positive terms in the foreign language as described herein. The statistics database can include the statistics about the negative positive terms including any confidence score confidence interval and or probability that the negative positive term stored in the negative positive terms database can connote negative positive sentiment in the foreign language.

A seed term identifier can receive one or messages. The seed term identifier can then evaluate the message s to locate any of the seed terms retrieved from seed terms database in the message . If any seed terms are identified the seed terms may be identified and or indicated in the message and then sent to the negative positive term identifier .

The seed term identifier may also receive the selection of seed terms to be stored in a seed terms database . Here a user supervisor or some other person may enter a seed term input into the seed term identifier to indicate which seed term s should be used. For example the seed term identifier can receive a selection to use the fail identifier as a seed term. Further other English words may be used such as sucks awesome cool success or some other term or curse term that may be used globally as a sign of negativity.

Further the seed term identifier may receive messages with known negative positive content in a foreign language and be able to receive inputs as to which terms within those messages are negative positive. Here the seed term identifier may evaluate two or more messages to determine which of the foreign language seed terms may have a greater confidence score or likelihood of being used thereinafter. These seed terms whether provided or identified are stored in the seed terms database for use in the future for identifying other negative positive terms in a foreign language that may be associated with or correlated with the seed terms. Messages with seed terms identified are passed to the negative positive term identifier .

The negative positive term identifier is operable to store negative positive terms in database . The database can provide negative positive terms that are associated with the foreign language. Here the negative positive term identifier can receive a message having one or more seed terms identified. The seed terms may then be used to locate other terms in the foreign language within the message that may be correlated with the seed term. There may be a physical proximity or term density within the message that indicates to the negative positive term identifier that these identified terms are negative positive terms in the foreign language and may connote negative positive sentiment because of their relation or associated to the seed term. These negative positive terms may then be stored in the negative positive terms database . The message with the negative positive terms identified may be passed to the parser .

The parser may extract possible negative positive terms from the message and store those negative positive terms in the negative positive terms database . Here the parser may be able to extract negative positive terms and store those negative positive terms and may also provide other information in the negative positive terms database . For example the parser may provide a number of instances some type of correlation between the negative positive term and seed term or other information in the negative positive terms database . The negative positive term information may also be passed from the parser to the statistics analyzer .

The statistics analyzer is operable to review instances of a negative positive term being used within a message. The analysis information is stored in the statistics database . Here the statistics analyzer can attempt to determine by multiple instances of a negative positive term being identified in a message with the seed term whether that negative positive term has a statistical confidence score of connoting negative positive sentiment within a message. The statistics analyzer can use known statistical techniques to determine a confidence score which can include a confidence score that a negative positive term having consistent and continuous use with a seed term and or within a negative positive message may indeed connote negative positive sentiment. Upon reaching some threshold for example the confidence interval of 90 the statistics analyzer may then provide that negative positive term to a negative positive message identifier to use in evaluating future messages.

A negative positive message identifier may receive the message negative positive terms from the parser and or information about the statistics associated with the negative positive terms from statistics analyzer . With this information a negative positive message identifier can locate the negative positive terms within a message and determine if the message likely has a negative positive sentiment. If the message does have negative positive sentiment that message may be actionable. The actionable message therefore may then be sent onto an agent interface to be routed to an agent . It is at this time that the message can be translated or the message may be sent to an agent having a fluency in that language. Thus using the system of only messages that are believed to have negative positive sentiment can be addressed or provided to agents. This process thus eliminates a great number of messages in foreign languages that need not be translated.

A database for storing negative positive terms which may be the same or similar to negative positive terms database along with any information about statistics or seed terms in database may be shown in . Here the information in these separate databases through are shown as being consolidated into one data structure but may be stored in separate database. The data structure can include one or more rows which may each be associated with a negative positive term. Each row may include different fields or portions that are associated with the negative positive term. For example the fields can include one or more of but are not limited to a term identifier the negative positive term the seed term a correlation statistics and or a confidence interval . The rows within the data structure can include more or fewer fields than those shown in as represented by ellipses . Further there may be more or fewer rows through than those shown in .

The term identifier can be any type of identifier that provides a way of identifying the negative positive term. The term identifier can be an alphanumeric identifier a globally unique identifier GUID or some other identifier that uniquely identifies the negative positive term amongst other negative positive terms within the database . The term identifier may be used because some negative positive terms may be picture based e.g. Chinese characters . Thus these types of terms are more difficult to locate and store and may require using a term identifier .

The negative positive term may be provided in field . Here the negative positive term is listed with any characters or pictures required to identify or provide that negative positive term . The term identifier field of and the term field may be searched to locate the term to update statistics in fields and or .

One or more seed terms may be listed in field that have been associated with negative positive term . Thus each negative positive term may have been associated with located near or identified because of one or more seed terms . In this way every time the negative positive term is discovered the seed term used to identify the negative positive term may be listed in field . The more seed terms listed in field connotes a higher confidence score that term is negative positive.

A correlation field can provide some type of score that quantifies the possibility that the negative positive term and the seed term or at least one of the seed terms in field are correlated. The correlation may be a number based on the number of instances the negative positive term has been found with the seed term the type of physical proximity between seed term and the negative positive term or other information. The correlation field can store the highest correlation store an average correlation or may store both a highest and average correlation for one or more of the seed terms .

The confidence interval may be a statistical confidence interval that the negative positive term does connote negative positive sentiment. The confidence interval may be created over several instances or several messages that include the term . Thus as the term becomes more prevalent in messages with the seed terms and is consistently found with the seed term the confidence interval rises. The confidence interval thus suggests a probability that a negative positive term is or connotes negative positive sentiment in a foreign language.

An embodiment of a method for determining seeding terms is shown in . Generally the method begins with a start operation and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method are shown in the method can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Further the method can be executed by a gate or other hardware device or component in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit a Field Programmable Gate Array or other type of hardware device. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures user interfaces etc. described herein.

The seed term identifier can analyze known negative positive messages in step . Thus the seed term identifier can be provided with two or more messages that have known negative positive sentiment. From these messages the seed term identifier can locate reoccurrences of certain terms within that language that may be used as a seed term.

The seed term identifier then identifies the seeding terms in step . The identification can be through language or text processing algorithms. As more messages are provided to the seed term identifier the seed term identifier can better identify probable seeding terms in step .

The seed term identifier may then store the seeding terms in step . Here the seed term identifier parses or extracts the seeding terms and stores those seeding terms in the seed terms database . These seed terms in database may then be used thereinafter for analyzing other messages.

An embodiment of a method for identifying negative positive sentiment in a message of a different language or foreign language is shown in . Generally the method begins with a start operation and terminates with an end operation . While a general order for the steps of the method are shown in the method can include more or fewer steps or arrange the order of the steps differently than those shown in . The method can be executed as a set of computer executable instructions executed by a computer system and encoded or stored on a computer readable medium. Further the method can be executed by a gate or other hardware device or component in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit a Field Programmable Gate Array or other type of hardware device. Hereinafter the method shall be explained with reference to the systems components modules software data structures user interfaces etc. described herein.

The contact center server can receive messages in step . The contact center server can receive a message from a customer device through a communications network which is sent through an enterprise network to a contact center server . In other situations the contact center server may receive a social media message through a social media gateway . The messages may then be provided to the dialog core . Specifically the text processing component of the dialog core can receive the messages.

A seeding term identifier may then receive the messages . The seeding term identifier may then retrieve one or more seeding terms from seed terms database . The seeding terms can then be used to review messages to determine or identify seeding terms within the messages in step . Here the seeding term identifier does a scan or compare between the seed terms and the message . Any located seeding terms are then flagged indicated or identified and the message may be passed to the negative positive term identifier .

The negative positive term identifier can then analyze the message for other terms in the message in the foreign language. A negative positive term identifier can analyze the foreign language message for these other terms in step to determine which terms may have negative positive sentiment. Here the negative positive term identifier attempts to find terms that have had previous appearances in previous messages or terms that have some type of correlation with the seed term. These terms can be correlated with the seeding terms based on physical proximity rate of occurrence or some other information. Any term within the message that appears to be negative positive may be passed to the parser .

The parser can extract the negative positive terms from the message and store those message terms or sentiment terms in a negative positive terms database in step . The information in the database continues to be updated as negative positive terms are identified or instances of negative positive terms are identified and any information about negative positive terms in a message may be passed to statistics analyzer .

The statistics analyzer can then determine statistical information about the possible negative positive term in step . Here the statistics analyzer can compute a correlation and or a confidence interval for each of the sentiment terms identified in the foreign language. The statistics may be continuously updated as new messages are received and possible new or recurrent instances of a negative positive term s is used. At some point thereinafter the statistics analyzer can determine if a term has a statistical confidence score of being a negative positive term in step . Here if the negative positive term reaches a predetermined threshold for example a confidence interval of 90 the statistics analyzer then denotes that the negative positive sentiment term can be used to indicate negative positive sentiment within a foreign language. If the term does have a statistical confidence score of being a negative positive term the method proceeds YES to step . If the term does not have a statistical confidence score of being a negative positive term at present time the method proceeds NO to receive more messages in step and further analyze that term.

In step a next message is received. This next message may be provided to the negative positive message identifier . The negative positive message identifier can receive a list of negative positive terms from the parser with any associated statistical information from the statistics analyzer . The negative positive terms may then be compared against the newly received message to determine if the negative positive term s exists within the message. If the negative positive terms do appear within the message and if the instances appear to be in a great enough concentration the negative positive message identifier can determine that the message is negative positive or has negative positive sentiment in step . The message with negative positive sentiment may then be sent as an actionable message to agent interface to be routed to an agent .

It should be noted that each seeding term may include two or more sentiment terms associated therewith. Thus in database the seeding terms may be listed in two or more rows through . Further in some circumstances each message received may include two or more seeding terms. More seeding terms within a message indicates that there is a higher confidence score that the message is negative positive. Further the accumulation of seeding terms in a message may bolster the possibility of finding negative positive terms or creating a better association between seeding terms and negative positive terms. The seeding terms can be in English as English tends to be cross cultural and English is used internationally to represent anger and or dissatisfaction.

The ability to locate seeding terms and then identify sentiment terms with negative positive connotations in a foreign language helps to better evaluate incoming messages . The advantage with such a processing system is that not every message received by the contact center server needs to be translated. Determining whether messages that are identified as having negative positive sentiment based on the presence of sentiment terms with negative positive connotation need to be translated helps to greatly reduce the effort needed for the contact center to review messages in certain foreign languages. Further a database of sentiment terms may be built automatically through the reception of several messages and over a period of time. Still further as these negative positive terms are identified and have higher and higher statistical confidence score of connoting negative positive content those negative positive terms may be then become seed terms for other languages. This database with its growing number of terms may then be able to indicate over a period of time negativity in any type of language received by the contact center server . This process thus provides the great advantage to analyze messages without needing to have specific people who are fluent in those languages read or translate the messages.

Environment further includes a network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation SIP TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network maybe a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 702.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server . In this example server is shown as a web server and server is shown as an application server. The web server which may be used to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers and . The web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The web server can also run a variety of server applications including SIP servers HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some instances the web server may publish operations available operations as one or more web services.

The environment may also include one or more file and or application servers which can in addition to an operating system include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the user computers . The server s and or may be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and . As one example the server may execute one or more web applications. The web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The web pages created by the server and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web file server . Similarly the web server may be able to receive web page requests web services invocations and or input data from a user computer and can forward the web page requests and or input data to the web application server . In further embodiments the web server may function as a file server. Although for ease of description illustrates a separate web server and file application server those skilled in the art will recognize that the functions described with respect to servers may be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters. The computer systems and web file server and or web application server may function as the system devices or components described in .

The environment may also include a database . The database may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. The database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. The database may be a relational database such as Oracle that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. The computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the computer system . Moreover as disclosed herein the term storage medium may represent one or more devices for storing data including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic RAM core memory magnetic disk storage mediums optical storage mediums flash memory devices and or other machine readable mediums for storing information.

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods. These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While illustrative embodiments have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

