---

title: Systems, devices, and methods for managing a payment transaction
abstract: Disclosed herein is a method for managing a payment transaction wherein a processor receives a transaction information input corresponding to a particular card type. The processor then accesses a BIN table and a rate table to calculate a fee based on the transaction information input and compares the calculated fee with alternate fees corresponding to alternate card types. A card type corresponding to a determined lowest fee between the calculated fee and the alternate fees is then outputted. The processor then completes the payment transaction by accessing transaction information corresponding to a user selected card type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768831&OS=08768831&RS=08768831
owner: 
number: 08768831
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130315
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 443 882 filed on Apr. 10 2012 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Traditional card transaction practices include authorization clearing settlement and funding actions to complete card transactions between several entities such as the cardholder merchant acquirer issuer and card network. Card transactions include payments made using different types of payment cards such as a credit card debit card gift card etc. The authorization action includes a cardholder presenting a card as payment to the merchant and the merchant submitting the transaction to the acquirer. The acquirer verifies the card holder has available funds for settlement by passing at least the card number the transaction type and the amount to the card network and obtains a transaction authorization. Settlement or clearing of the transactions is typically done by the merchant once per day and in a batch containing all the day s transaction. The settlement is passed to the merchant acquirer. The merchant acquirer subsequently settles the transactions further with the appropriate card network such as VISA MasterCard or American Express NYCE etc. Almost all transactions incur an interchange fee that the card network designates per published rates. Interchange fees are collected by the card networks from merchants either on daily or monthly basis. Card networks then remit these interchange fee to the card issuing banks. Depending on the card type transaction type and the merchant type among other factors different interchange fees may be assessed by the card network for the same purchase transaction. For example the card network may charge the merchant an interchange fee of 1.85 of the sale price plus 0.10 for a typical credit card rendered whereas the same merchant may be assessed an interchange fee of 2.4 of sale price plus 0.10 for a reward credit card for the purchase of the same good payment method i.e. online and using the same card network i.e. VISA .

Further the same merchant may be charged an even higher rate for a business card issued on the same card network and by the same card issuer for exactly the same transaction. Alternatively a reward card might be charged a higher interchange fee than a non reward card on the same network. Debit cards participating in more than one network e.g. STAR and MasterCard may be assessed a different interchange fee depending on the network used by the merchant. Therefore merchants have an incentive to find the least expensive method to process card transactions i.e. process card transactions through the lowest cost network to reduce card processing costs costs that may add up to millions of dollars a year.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems methods and devices for managing payment transactions. Persons of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that different fees are incurred when a cardholder presents different cards to a merchant for processing. These fees include an interchange fee a card network fee and a card processor fee. The interchange fee is assessed by the card network. The card network collects the interchange fee from the merchant s acquirer on behalf of the issuer and in turn the merchant acquirer collects the fee from the merchant itself. The card network fee is charged by the card network such as VISA MasterCard NYCE or Star . The card processor fee is charged by a processor of the card transaction such as First Data Elavon Vantiv etc. Thus for example when a VISA debit card issued by Chase bank is rendered to a merchant and processed by First Data the interchange fee would be collected by the card network VISA from the merchant acquirer and paid to Chase bank the card network fee would be due to VISA the processor fee would be due to First Data. All fees collected above are typically paid by the merchant as part of doing business and therefore the merchant has much incentive to reduce these fees. In one embodiment the cost of processing the card payment transaction may be the total of the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee as shown by the following equation Cost interchange fee card network fee processor fee 1 

Persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand that in other embodiments the cost may include a subset or additional fees to those shown in the above equation. Further many debit and credit card issuers offer various card types with various features that are chosen by the issuers within guidelines provided by the card networks to meet the needs of different types of cardholders and result in different interchange rates to the merchants. For example at present a VISA credit card issuer may offer a Consumer Credit VISA Consumer Rewards or Corporate credit card each having different features for the cardholders such as extended warranties on purchases or reward points and each having a different interchange rate. For example a retailer such as Staples selling a 100 toner cartridge for a laser printer might have to pay 3.05 to its acquirer 2.95 0.10 when a Corporate Credit card is used to purchase the toner cartridge whereas when a Consumer Credit card is used to purchase that same toner cartridge then it will only cost Staples 1.90 1.80 0.10 in interchange fees due to differential interchange pricing set at the card network. Typically interchange and card network fees associated with debit card transactions may be lower than fees associated with credit card transactions because the perceived risk to the issuer is lowered as funds availability is verified at the time of authorizations among other reasons. Further most debit card issuers are members of at least two separate card networks. For example debit card issuer Bank of America may be member of Visa as well Star debit networks and therefore cards issued by Bank of America may be processed through either network based on cardholder preference merchant preference or depending on the rules of the networks. That allows the merchant the capability of routing card transactions to one of those networks for processing. Traditionally regional debit networks such as STAR NYCE and Pulse charge lower interchange fees for processing transactions than larger card networks such as VISA or MasterCard . Historically the regional networks were initially developed as ATM networks but within the last 20 years they have increased the capabilities of their networks to enable payment acceptance by merchants. For example the regional networks have developed technologies to accept ATM PINs at the point of purchase where the cardholder inputs a PIN on a PIN pad after being prompted to do so at the time of purchase. These transactions are called PIN based debit or PIN debit and are relatively secure from fraud due to the nature of PIN based authorization. Similarly the regional networks began to offer companies that have recurring billing such as utilities municipality etc. ability to use the regional networks to process debit card transactions that are conducted via Internet or telephone without a PIN. That is the card is not physically presented to the merchant at the point of sale and no PIN is inputted to validate the transaction. Such transactions are called PIN less debit transactions where a PIN is not entered during the payment transaction. Recently virtual PIN pads have been offered for securely capturing a PIN for card payment transactions conducted via Internet where the card is not rendered at a point of sale. Moreover the recently passed Durbin amendment part of The Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Pub. L. 111 203 H.R. 4173 requires all debit cards issued by US financial institutions to support processing through at least two unrelated debit card networks. In addition the new Durbin amendment regulates the interchange fee for debit card issuing banks with assets greater than 10 billion.

In another embodiment some merchants such as utility companies charge a convenience fee to process or handle cards for payment transactions. Such a convenience fee may include a profit in addition to the cost incurred by the merchant which includes the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee as shown in the following equation. Convenience fee cost profit 2 The convenience fee may be calculated by different algorithms known in the art and include different variables such as expected profit price elasticity volume of card payment transactions and other economic and non economic variables. Alternative embodiments include that the different algorithms calculate dynamically the convenience fee based on a discount from a static convenience fee. The static convenience fee may be determined by the factors mentioned above.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include a method for managing a payment transaction. The method includes receiving at a computer server a first transaction information including a first rendered card information payment amount and merchant type. A further step in the method may include accessing BIN and rate information from a table using the computer server based on the first transaction information stored in a computer. In addition the method may include calculating using the computer server a first cost based on the BIN and rate information and calculating a first convenience fee for the first rendered card. Also the method may include determining a first suggested card type by the computer server based on an algorithm implemented by software such that the first suggested card type has a lower cost than the first cost and a lower convenience fee than the first convenience fee and may also provide the first suggested card type to a user.

Moreover the method may include calculating a first suggested convenience fee for the first suggested card type as well as providing the first suggested convenience fee to the user. Further the first rendered card information is selected from the group consisting of a BIN or a card number. In addition the table may have BIN and rate information is stored in one or more storage devices. Also the method may include storing a subset of the first transaction information by the computer server.

Further the method may include receiving at a computer server a second transaction information including a second rendered card information accessing BIN and rate information from the table using the computer server based on the second transaction information as well as calculating using the computer server a second cost based on the BIN and rate table information and a second convenience fee for the second rendered card. In addition the method may include determining a second suggested card type by the computer server based on an algorithm implemented by software such that the second suggested card type has a lower cost than the first cost and the second cost and the second suggested card type has a lower convenience fee than the first convenience fee and the second convenience fee as well as providing the second suggested card type to the user.

Moreover the method may include storing a subset of the first transaction information by the computer server as well as storing a subset of the second transaction information by the computer server. Further the method may include accessing the first transaction information and processing the first transaction information on a card network. In addition the method may include receiving instructions from the user to select one of the rendered cards for the transaction accessing the transaction information corresponding to the selected rendered card and processing the transaction information on a card network. Persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand from the disclosed embodiments that a user may render multiple cards e.g. more than two and the systems and methods. Also the method may include determining that a rendered card is on a blocking list stored by the computer server further blocking the processing of the rendered card.

Further transaction information may be selected from the group consisting of payment information payment amount transaction type merchant information merchant type merchant category card information card type the card number BIN card expiration date cardholder address PIN security code asset size of the card issuer and card networks of which the card issuer is a member. In addition each of the suggested card type can be selected from the group consisting of a credit card debit card prepaid card charge card reward credit card corporate credit card rewards debit card retailer credit card and gift card.

Embodiments of the disclosure include a system for managing a payment transaction. The system includes one or more processors one or more storage devices each coupled to the one or more processors and one or more communication interfaces coupled to the one or more processors and capable of being coupled to one or more communication networks. Further components may include one or more software applications residing on the system implemented by the one or more processors. The one of more software applications may include a processing engine that receives a first transaction information including a first rendered card information payment amount and merchant type. Other software applications may be one or more look up engines that i access BIN and rate information from a table based on the first transaction information stored in a computer and ii pass the BIN and rate table information to the processing engine. In addition the processing engine further i calculates a first cost based on the BIN and rate information and calculates a first convenience fee for the first rendered card ii determines a first suggested card type based on an algorithm implemented by software such that the first suggested card type has a lower cost than the first cost and a lower convenience fee than the first convenience fee iii provides the first suggested card type to a user.

Moreover the processing engine calculates a first suggested convenience fee for the first suggested card type as well as provides first suggested convenience fee to the user. Further the first rendered card information is selected from a group consisting of a BIN or a card number. In addition the table having BIN and rate information is stored in one or more storage devices. Also the processing engine stores a subset of the first transaction information in the one or more storage devices.

In addition the processing engine receives a second transaction information including a second rendered card information the one or more look up engines access BIN and rate information from the table based on the second transaction information and the processing engine further calculates a second cost based on the BIN and rate table information and a second convenience fee for the second rendered card. Moreover the processing engine i determines a second suggested card type based on an algorithm implemented by software such that the second suggested card type has a lower cost than the first cost and the second cost and the second suggested card type has a lower convenience fee than the first convenience fee and the second convenience fee and ii provides the second suggested card type to the user.

Also the processing engine stores a subset of the first transaction information in the one or more storage devices as well as stores a subset of the second transaction information in the one or more storage devices. Further the computer server accesses the first transaction information and processes the first transaction information on a card network. In addition the computer server may receive instructions from the user to select one of the rendered cards for the transaction access the transaction information corresponding to the selected rendered card and process the transaction information on a card network. Persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand from the disclosed embodiments that a user may render multiple cards e.g. more than two and the systems and methods. Moreover the processing engine determining that a rendered card is on a blocking list stored by the computer server further blocking the processing of the rendered card.

Further the transaction information is selected from the group consisting of payment information payment amount transaction type merchant information merchant type merchant category card information card type the card number BIN card expiration date cardholder address PIN security code asset size of the card issuer and card networks of which the card issuer is a member. In addition each suggested card type can be selected from the group consisting of a credit card debit card prepaid card charge card reward credit card corporate credit card rewards debit card retailer credit card and gift card.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include a method for managing a payment transaction. The method includes receiving at a computer server a first transaction information including a first rendered card information payment amount and merchant type accessing BIN and rate information from a table using the computer server based on the first transaction information stored in a computer as well as calculating using the computer server a first cost based on the BIN and rate information and calculating a first incentive for the first rendered card. The method may also include determining a first suggested card type by the computer server based on an algorithm implemented by software such that the first suggested card type has a lower cost than the first cost and a larger incentive than the first incentive as well as providing the first suggested card type to the user.

Moreover the method may include calculating a first suggested cost and a first suggested incentive for the first suggested card type as well as providing the first suggested incentive to the user. The first rendered card information is selected from the group consisting of a BIN or a card number. Further the table having BIN and rate information is stored in one or more storage devices. The method may include storing a subset of the first transaction information by the computer server.

In addition the method may include receiving at a computer server a second transaction information including a second rendered card information accessing BIN and rate information from the table using the computer server based on the second transaction information as well as calculating using the computer server a second cost based on the BIN and rate table information and a second incentive for the second rendered card. Moreover the method may include determining a second suggested card type by the computer server based on an algorithm implemented by software such that the second suggested card type has a lower cost than the first cost and the second cost and the second suggested card type has a larger incentive than the first incentive and the second incentive as well as providing the second suggested card type to the user.

Further the method may include storing a subset of the first transaction information by the computer server as well as storing a subset of the second transaction information by the computer server. In addition the method may include accessing the first transaction information and processing the first transaction information on a card network. Moreover the method may include receiving instructions from the user to select one of the rendered cards for the transaction accessing the transaction information corresponding to the selected rendered card and processing the transaction information on a card network. Persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand from the disclosed embodiments that a user may render multiple cards e.g. more than two and the systems and methods. Further the method may include determining that a rendered card is on a blocking list stored by the computer server further blocking the processing of the rendered card.

Also transaction information is selected from the group consisting of payment information payment amount transaction type merchant information merchant type and merchant category and card information card type the card number BIN card expiration date cardholder address PIN security code asset size of the card issuer and card networks of which the card issuer is a member. Further each suggested card type can be selected from the group consisting of a credit card debit card prepaid card charge card reward credit card corporate credit card rewards debit card retailer credit card and gift card. In addition each incentive can be selected from the group consisting of goods coupons charity points or third party incentives.

Embodiments of the disclosure include a system for managing a payment transaction. The system includes one or more processors one or more storage devices each coupled to the one or more processors one or more communication interfaces coupled to the one or more processors and capable of being coupled to one or more communication networks. The system includes one or more software applications residing on the device implemented by the one or more processors. The one of more software applications include a processing engine that receives a first transaction information including a first rendered card information payment amount and merchant type as well as one or more look up engines that i accesses BIN and rate information from a table based on the first transaction information stored in a computer and ii passes the BIN and rate table information to the processing engine. Further the processing engine further i calculates a first cost based on the BIN and rate information and calculates a first incentive for the first rendered card ii determines a first suggested card type based on an algorithm implemented by software such that the first suggested card type has a lower cost than the first cost and a larger incentive than the first incentive iii provides the first suggested card type to a user. In addition the processing engine calculates a first suggested cost and a first suggested incentive for the first suggested card type as well as the processing engine provides the first suggested incentive to the user. The first rendered card information is selected from a group consisting of a BIN or a card number. In addition the table having BIN and rate information is stored in one or more storage devices. Also the processing engine stores a subset of the first transaction information in the one or more storage devices. In addition the processing engine receives a second transaction information including a second rendered card information the one or more look up engines access BIN and rate information from the table based on the second transaction information as well as the processing engine further calculates a second cost based on the BIN and rate table information and a second incentive for the second rendered card. Moreover the processing engine i determines a second suggested card type based on an algorithm implemented by software such that the second suggested card type has a lower cost than the first cost and the second cost and the second suggested card type has a larger incentive than the first incentive and the second incentive and iii provides the second suggested card type to the user.

In addition the processing engine stores a subset of the first transaction information in the one or more storage devices as well as stores a subset of the second transaction information in the one or more storage devices. The computer server accesses the first transaction information and processes the first transaction information on a card network. Further the computer server receives instructions from the user to select one of the rendered cards for the transaction accesses the transaction information corresponding to the selected rendered card and processes the transaction information on a card network. Persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand from the disclosed embodiments that a user may render multiple cards e.g. more than two and the systems and methods. The processing engine determines that a rendered card is on a blocking list stored by the computer server further blocking the processing of the rendered card.

Transaction information is selected from the group consisting of payment information payment amount the transaction type merchant information merchant type merchant category and card information card type the card number BIN card expiration date cardholder address PIN security code asset size of the card issuer and card networks of which the card issuer is a member. Each suggested card type can be selected from the group consisting of a credit card debit card prepaid card charge card reward credit card corporate credit card rewards debit card retailer credit card and gift card. Moreover each incentive can be selected from the group consisting of goods coupons charity points or third party incentives.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of difference configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein. Further in the following description numerous details are set forth to further describe and explain one or more embodiments. These details include system configurations block module diagrams flowcharts including transaction diagrams and accompanying written description. While these details are helpful to explain one or more embodiments of the disclosure those skilled in the art will understand that these specific details are not required in order to practice the embodiments.

With the Durbin Amendment recently passed by Congress debit interchange fees were significantly reduced for financial institutions with more than 10 Billion in assets regulated . Further issuers were obliged to enable their cards to be issued and processed by at least two unaffiliated debit networks such as Interlink and Star or Star and NYCE etc. This regulation enables merchants to competitively route debit transactions to the card network with the lowest fee to process its transactions. Thus merchants may be able to provide lower convenience fees as well as incentives and discounts to customers when they use a card with the lowest cost and hence benefit the merchant. Further other factors affect the fees associated with a debit or credit card transaction thereby lowering the cost. Some factors may include but are not limited to card type e.g. credit debit prepaid business reward etc. size of financial institution that issued the card network used to process payment data captured when payment is rendered e.g. cardholder address PIN etc. type of merchant utilities car rental companies etc. and type of transaction e.g. in person single payment recurring payment Internet payment etc. .

The factors adjust the fees associated with the credit card or debit card processing in different ways. For example generally fees for processing credit cards in a given card network are higher than fees for processing debit cards because of lower perceived risk of fraud to the issuers for debit cards. Based on the new Durbin amendment a debit card issued by a large financial institution in most circumstances has a lower interchange rate than a debit card issued by a small financial institution. A further factor in determining credit or debit card processing fees may be the type of network processing the card. The card type size of financial institution issuing the card and card network may be found by comparing the first several digits of the rendered card number with a Bank Identification Number BIN table.

Additional factors that affect credit or debit card processing cost may include the data captured when payment is rendered the type of merchant and the type of transaction. In most cases the more data captured when payment is rendered e.g. card expiration date cardholder address PIN etc. the lower the fees thereby reducing the cost. The reason for the lower cost is because the more cardholder information is gathered by the merchant the less likely it is that a fraudulent transaction may occur. Another factor affecting the cost of a card transaction may be the type of merchant. For example merchants who take payments from customers with whom they have an ongoing relationship such as utilities insurance companies or cable TV providers are charged lower interchange fees in many circumstances than merchants who take payments from customers that they do not know or merchants who take payments for services for which the full price is not known at the time of the purchase such as e commerce transactions . The reason being is that there is more risk of fraud with a one time payment transaction than with recurring payment transactions. In addition the type of transaction such as whether it is an in person transaction single payment recurring payment phone payment or Internet payment would affect the card processing cost. Such interchange fees associated with data capture merchant type and transaction type can be found in one or more rate tables published by card networks.

An illustrative summary of some but all factors that may affects interchange fees and are used in cost determination is shown in Table 1 below.

The exact factors that determine the cost of processing a payment from the card the number of networks that are available to process a payment and the structure of the BIN and rate tables published by each network are subject to change due to regulation card network pricing competitive pressures and the introduction of new types of merchants. Other embodiments of the present disclosure fulfill a unique role by performing lookups in the most recent BIN tables and rate tables in real time to determine a cost of the transaction before suggesting a convenience fee or incentive for each card payment transaction appropriate to that specific transaction.

In the embodiment shown in the look up engine a BIN table a processing engine and a rate table are on a server such as a Facilitator e.g. third party or vendor server or a merchant server among others e.g. a financial institution server . Persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand that further embodiments may not only include one server but a distributed system of servers that each implement a subset of the software applications discussed in the pending disclosure. A card holder may initiate a payment transaction by rendering a payment card e.g. credit card debit card rewards card prepaid debit card gift card etc. using various means that include a software application on the client computing device such as web browser. The look up software engine may be implemented by a Facilitator server that receives the card information e.g. card number or BIN number and other transaction information e.g. merchant information to access information from the BIN table and the rate table . Further the look up software engine may then process the information to determine the associated cost of the transaction interchange fee card network fee processor fee among others for the card rendered in the payment transaction. Thus when the card is a credit card then the look up table may access a rate table to determine the interchange fee and any other fee that may be associated with the payment transaction. Further when the card is a debit card the look up engine may access a BIN table to determine the cost associated with the debit card or any other fee associated with the payment transaction . The BIN table and rate tables may be stored in a database or other storage device associated with the server . The look up engine may then forward the determined or calculated cost including the interchange fee network fee and processor fee to the processing engine . Further the processing engine may implement one or more software applications incorporating algorithms to determine a convenience fee for the rendered card. As mentioned previously the convenience fee is the fee charged to the consumer making the payment transaction for processing that payment transaction and is typically the sum of the cost of payment transaction and the profit associated with a payment transaction. The algorithms may incorporate other economic factors such as price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand day of the month and other known factors in the art relevant to the transaction implemented by the merchant server Facilitator server and other servers in order to calculate the appropriate convenience fee for a transaction. Alternative embodiments include that the different algorithms calculate dynamically the convenience fee based on a discount from a static convenience fee. The static convenience fee may be determined by the factors mentioned above. For example a static convenience fee of 10 may be assessed and disclosed for all card transactions for a particular merchant. However based on the implemented algorithm when a reward credit card is rendered the system may suggest two alternate cards 1 a conventional credit card with a discount of 2 from the static convenience fee resulting an 8 convenience fee to the consumer user or 2 a debit card with a 6 discount from the static convenience fee resulting in a convenience fee of 4 to the consumer user. In a further embodiment the system may have more than one static convenience fee calculated and stored in the system based on the first card rendered. For example when a reward credit card is rendered first a static convenience fee is calculated e.g. 10 associated with that rewards credit card based on the implemented algorithm. All discounts henceforth for alternate or rendered cards will be calculated based on this 10 convenience fee. Alternatively when convention credit card is rendered first a static convenience fee may be calculated e.g. 7 associated with that conventional credit card based on the implemented algorithm. All discounts henceforth for alternate or rendered cards will be calculated based on the 7 convenience fee.

In certain circumstance a surcharge rather than a discount may be assessed on a static convenience fee. This may apply when a card with higher interchange fee such as corporate cards is presented as well as for other reasons. The discount and surcharge calculation may be implemented to address card network regulation.

Further the exemplary system shown in may calculate a convenience fee for a card rendered by the customer such as a rewards credit card for example and then calculate a convenience fee e.g. alternate convenience fee for different types of cards e.g. alternate card types such as a conventional credit card or a debit card. The cost for processing a debit card transaction is typically lower than for a rewards credit card or conventional credit card. Thus the exemplary system may suggest to the customer to render a conventional credit card or a debit card instead of a rewards credit card so has to incur a lower convenience fee. Further the merchant may have access to more than one card networks to process a card for a payment transaction. Thus the exemplary system may calculate a cost of processing a debit card on the two different card networks and select the lower cost automatically and use this cost in calculating the convenience fee associated with the debit card. In other words the exemplary system may calculate alternate costs used to determine a lowest cost for calculating the convenience fee associated with the debit card.

For example a customer may pay utility bill on a utility company s merchant website. Thus the customer may use the web browser on the client computing device to access the merchant website. Further the customer may provide a rewards credit card number to the merchant website through the web browser that is received by the processing engine of the Facilitator server . The processing engine may instruct the look up engine to access information from at least the rate table and BIN table for a credit card network and forward such information to the processing engine . Further the processing engine may determine the cost associated with rendered rewards credit card as well as a convenience fee to offer the customer as shown in . Further the rewards credit card number or its BIN and other relevant transaction information are stored by the Facilitator server . In addition the exemplary system may suggest two other convenience fees and each associated with other cards e.g. conventional credit card and regulated debit card etc. that yield a lower convenience fee. The description of discuss the calculation of the other two convenience fees and .

Referring to after determining convenience fee associated with a rendered rewards card the processing engine based on an algorithm may instruct the look up engine to access information from the rate table and BIN table for another card e.g. alternate card types that the processing engine deterministically expects to have a lower processing cost per algorithm such as a conventional credit card. The algorithm may take into account situations when a high cost card e.g. rewards credit card is rendered to calculate the convenience fee of lower cost cards such as conventional credit cards or debit cards.

Consequently the processing engine may calculate transaction cost and then a convenience fee associated with processing a conventional credit card for the same purchase. Typically the cost associated in processing a conventional credit card is lower than the cost of processing a rewards credit card. Thus the convenience fee for a conventional credit card may be lower than the convenience fee associated with the rendered rewards credit card. In certain embodiments the exemplary system may suggest a convenience fee to the customer through an API a client computing device s web browser or other means known in the art as a less expensive alternate to convenience fee . In such scenario system may suggest the user to render a conventional credit card instead of a rewards credit card when they are in possession of such a conventional card to pay a lower fee of 4.95 rather than 7.95 for rewards credit card suggesting a saving of 3.

However in some embodiments a customer may not have or may not choose to render a suggested card after receiving the suggestions to use a different card that may yield a lower convenience fee . Thus the customer may render another different type of card. The processing engine may store second rendered card information and calculate the card s corresponding convenience fee. Further the processing engine may also calculate alternate convenience fees. For example the processing engine based on the algorithm may determine that when a customer rendered two different rewards credit cards that it may then calculate the rewards credit card having the lowest convenience fee and suggest such a rewards credit card as an alternate to the customer. Further the processing engine may suggest the previously suggested card having a lower convenience fee. The customer may then render a third card or select one of the previously rendered cards information for which has been previously stored by the processing engine in a storage device to the process a current transaction.

In another embodiment a customer may render transaction information input corresponding to a plurality of card types which may be stored by the processor. When a customer e.g. a user chooses to make a payment transaction the customer may select one of the stored card types for the transaction process. In response to receiving a user selection corresponding to one of the stored plurality of a card types the processor may be configured to access the BIN and rate tables. Additionally the processor may be configured to calculate the convenience fee and the cost based on the transaction information corresponding to the selected stored card type. The processor may also be configured to calculate alternate convenience fees and alternate costs corresponding to alternate card types using at least the BIN and rate tables. The processor may then compare the calculated convenience fee and cost corresponding to the selected stored card type with the alternate convenience fees and alternate costs to determine whether the selected stored card type has a lower convenience fee and cost than the alternate card types. In response to determining that the selected stored card type has the lower convenience fee and cost the processor may be configured to complete the payment transaction using the selected stored card type.

Alternatively the processor may be configured to calculate a convenience fee and a cost corresponding to the transaction information input of each stored card type. Furthermore the processor may complete the payment transaction using the stored card type having the lowest convenience fee and cost as calculated using the BIN and rate tables. The processor may also be configured to receive transaction input information corresponding to a plurality of card types which the processor may directly access from a server. Alternatively in response to determining that the comparison of the calculated convenience fee and the alternate convenience fees is above a predetermined threshold the processor may be configured to output a fixed convenience fee and a fixed costs based on the comparison.

Referring to the processing engine may determine the cost and convenience fee associated with a debit card. The look up engine may access information pertaining to the payment transaction and calculate the cost of processing the payment transaction with a debit card rather than a rewards or conventional credit. The processing engine calculates a convenience fee for processing the debit card for one or more debit card networks and selects the lower convenience fee see convenience fee in to be associated with a debit card. Such a convenience may be suggested to the customer through the client computing device web browser and other means described above or known in the art in addition to convenience associated with a conventional card and convenience associated with the rendered rewards credit card. Thus the customer may select to render a conventional credit or a debit card when either one is available instead of the rewards credit card.

The calculation and suggestion of three convenience fees in is exemplary and by no means limiting. Persons of ordinary skill in the art understand that the number of convenience fees calculated and their associated cards suggested may not be limited. Also the examples and embodiments described in the pending disclosure may be combined separated and rearranged as would be understood by those persons with ordinary skill in the art.

In another embodiment prior to offering the various different convenience fees the processing engine may cause a query to the customer via the web browser API or other means known in the art to the client computing device to request more information regarding the transaction such as PIN card holder address CVV code etc. Based on the additional transaction information the look up engine may access different information from at least the rate table and BIN table . Such information may be passed to the processing engine to determine a different cost and hence convenience fee and for processing a customer s rewards credit card conventional credit card and or debit card.

Additional embodiments may include the processing engine determining the cost and convenience fee for a customer to render an automated clearing house ACH payment for a transaction. Prior to determining such ACH cost and associated convenience fee the processing engine may query the customer for additional information. Further such additional information may assist the processing engine to determine the ACH cost and convenience fee. If the convenience fee is lower than the convenience fee associated with the rendered card the processing engine may suggest ACH as an alternate method of payment.

It is possible that the system may not suggest to render an alternate card to customer because savings due to the cost associated with any such alternate card is too small as compared to the initially rendered card e.g. debit card or other reasons based on algorithms stored in the system . In such an embodiment the savings are not material in view of capturing the transaction in an efficient manner based on an algorithm and information stored by the merchant server or Facilitator server by the processing Engine . For example algorithms could be configured such that when a convenience fee for a possible alternate card is determined to be less than 50 cents below the fee calculated for the rendered card then the algorithm implemented by the processing engine may prevent the processing engine from suggesting such an alternate card to the customer.

Alternative embodiments may include that the system in general and processing engine in particular determine convenience fees for different types of cards e.g. rewards credit card conventional credit card debit card and suggest them to the customer after the customer is ready to pay for goods and services such as in an e commerce transaction but before the customer renders any card for payment.

Other embodiments may include that the look up engine and or processing engine may be implemented by the client computing device e.g. when the client computing device is a POS terminal . Further the BIN table and rate table are accessible by the client computer device or by the Facilitator server from a remote server or database.

In an alternate embodiment the processing engine may access a blocking list. Such a list may have a set of BINs that the system may not accept for various reasons. For example the cost for processing cards that belong to certain BINs may be high or for other reasons. Thus when a card is rendered with such a blocked BIN the processing engine may provide feedback to the customer that the card cannot be processes for various reasons and suggest alternate cards for them to render with low convenience fees.

Referring to the exemplary functional block diagram includes a client computing device a processing engine a BIN look up engine a BIN table rate look up engine a rate table an incentive engine and an incentive table . A client computing device may be a tablet notebook laptop or desktop computer as well as a landline phone mobile phone smartphone or any other client computing device such as a point of sale terminal. Alternative embodiments may have the look up engine and the processing engine on a server e.g. merchant server Facilitator server etc. and the client computing device may have a web browser as software or be a voice or CSR terminal. The embodiment shown in the processing engine a BIN look up engine a BIN table rate look up engine a rate table an incentive engine and an incentive table are on a Facilitator server.

A card holder may initiate a payment transaction with a credit card or debit card using a software application on the client computing device . The processing engine may be implemented by Facilitator server that receives the transaction information e.g. card number from the client computing device through a web browser API or other means known in the art and may cause the BIN look up software engine and the rate look up engine to access at least the BIN table and rate table information. Further the processing engine may process the transaction information to determine the associated cost for processing the rendered card for the payment transaction. Note persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand that comparing the embodiment shown in with the embodiment shown in the functionality incorporated in look up engine in may be split between the BIN look up engine and the rate lookup engine in .

Moreover the BIN look up engine may access a BIN table and rate look up engine may access a rate table to determine the fees associated for the a card that may include the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee or any other fee that may be associated with the transaction. For example a customer may access a utility company website such as a the website of a cellular phone service using a web browser API or other means known in the art through the client computing device . The customer may render a conventional card number to pay a cellular phone bill. The processing engine receives the rendered conventional credit card number and transaction information then passes the rendered card number to BIN look up engine and the rate look up engine . Further the BIN look up engine and the rate look up engine access BIN and rate information from the BIN table and rate table respectively. Such BIN table and rate table information which may include the interchange fee card network fee processor fee or any other applicable fee may be forwarded to the incentive engine . The BIN table and rate table may be stored in a database or other storage device associated with the Facilitator server . In addition the incentive engine may calculate the cost of processing the rendered conventional credit card based on such BIN and rate table information. Also using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors the incentive engine may determine an incentive corresponding to the rendered credit conventional card. Such incentive may also be listed and stored in the incentive table to be used in future payment transactions. In addition the processing engine and or the incentive engine may determine an incentive associated with a different card e.g. debit card that may be more attractive to the customer and having a lower cost to the merchant. In other words the processing engine may calculate alternate incentives corresponding to alternate card types. Such an alternate card may be suggested to customer through a client computing device web browser API or other known means in the art.

Referring to an algorithm executed by processing engine may take into account situations when a high cost card e.g. rewards credit card is rendered to calculate the cost of lower cost cards such as conventional credit cards or debit cards to provide a better incentive. Consequently the processing engine causes the BIN look up engine and rate look up engine to access a at least a BIN table and rate table respectively to determine BIN and rate information including the fees e.g. interchange fee card network fee processor fee associated in processing the debit card. Further due to the requirements of the Durbin legislation the BIN and rate information may include fees for at least two different debit card processing networks. In addition the BIN and rate information is forwarded to the incentive engine which determines the cost for processing the debit card on each network i.e. PIN less debit vs. regular debit . After determining the lower cost the incentive engine determines an incentive using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors. Typically the cost associated with processing a debit card is lower than processing a conventional credit card. Thus the incentive engine and Facilitator server may suggest to the customer to render a debit card corresponding to incentive instead of the conventional credit card corresponding to incentive . Hence incentive may be more attractive i.e. increased than incentive to entice a customer to render a debit card instead of a conventional credit card. For example incentive may allow a customer to download 10 free ringtones from the cellular service provider s website. Alternatively incentive may allow a customer to download 25 free ringtones. Other incentives in other embodiments may include 2 off your utility bill or 10 coupon on next purchase from merchant.

Alternatively the processor may be configured to compare a calculated cost based on the transaction information input using at least the BIN and rate tables and compare the calculated costs and alternate costs corresponding to alternate card types using the BIN and rate tables. In response to determining that the comparison of the calculated convenience fee and the alternate convenience fees is above a predetermined threshold the processor may be configured to output a fixed convenience fee and a fixed costs based on the comparison.

In alternate embodiments prior to offering two different incentives and the processing engine may cause a query to the user via the web browser of the client computing device to request more information regarding the transaction such as PIN card holder address CVV code etc. Such additional card information may be passed to the BIN look up engine and rate look up engine to access different BIN and rate information that is provided to the incentive engine . Further the incentive engine may determine more attractive incentives and to suggest to the customer because typically the cost of processing cards is lower when more rendered information is collected from the customer.

Additional embodiments may include the incentive engine determining the cost and incentive for a customer to render an automated clearing house ACH payment for a transaction. Prior determining such ACH cost and associated incentive the processing engine incentive engine may query the customer for additional information. Further such additional information may assist the incentive engine to determine the ACH cost and incentive. If the value of the incentive is lower than the value of the incentive associated with the rendered card the incentive engine may suggest ACH as an alternate method of payment. Persons of ordinary skill in the art understand that differences between the cost of process a payment from card and the corresponding offered incentives offered may not linear. For example a rewards credit card may have a cost of 5 and offer no incentive a conventional credit card may have a cost of 3 and have an incentive of a 1 discount and a debit card may have a cost of 1 and have an incentive of a 3 discount. Such a nonlinear offering of incentives may motivate customers to choose to render the card with the lowest cost.

It is possible that the system may not suggest to render an alternate card to customer because savings is too small due to cost associated with processing the card as compared to the initially rendered card e.g. debit card . In such an embodiment the savings are not material in view of capturing the transaction in an efficient manner based on algorithm and information stored by the merchant server or Facilitator server by the incentive engine . For example algorithms could be configured such that when a value of an incentive for a possible alternate card is determined to be less than 50 cents than the value of the incentive of the rendered card then the algorithm implemented by the incentive engine may prevent the incentive engine from suggesting such an alternate card to the customer.

Alternative embodiments may include that the system in general and incentive engine in particular to determine incentives for different types of cards e.g. rewards credit card conventional credit card debit card and suggest them to the customer after the customer is ready to pay for goods and services such as in an e commerce transaction but before the customer renders any card for payment.

Other embodiments may include that the BIN table rate table incentive table are stored and associated in one or more remote servers and are accessed by the Facilitator server . Further embodiments may include that the BIN and rate look up engines and and or incentive engine may be implemented by an entity other than the Facilitator such as a financial institution merchant or some other third party. Additional embodiments may include that the look up engines and or processing engine may be implemented by the client computing device e.g. POS terminal and the BIN table rate table and incentive table are accessible by the client computer device from a remote server e.g. merchant server Facilitator and or financial server . Persons of ordinary skill in the art would also understand that the incentive software engine may be a type of processing engine as shown in .

However in some embodiments a customer may not have or may not choose to render a conventional credit card after receiving the suggestions to use such a conventional credit card with a lower cost and hence a better incentive . Thus the customer may render another different card such as a different rewards credit card. The processing engine may store second rendered card information and calculate the card s corresponding cost and incentive. Further the processing engine may also calculate alternate incentives. For example the processing engine based on the algorithm may determine that when a customer rendered two different rewards credit cards that it may then calculate the rewards credit card having the lowest cost and suggest such a rewards credit card as an alternate to the customer. Further the processing engine may suggest the previously suggested conventional credit having a lower cost and better incentive. The customer may then render a third card or select one of the previously rendered cards information for which has been stored by the computer server to the process a current transaction.

Although some embodiments disclose incentives as being goods e.g. ringtones or discounts e.g. 5 off on a bill persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand that incentives are not limited to goods and discounts but may also include but not be limited to coupons payments to charity reward points and third party incentives etc. or any other type of incentive known in the art. Further coupons include providing a discount on a future purchase of a good or service from a merchant. Alternatively an incentive may include providing a payment to charity by the merchant when the customer uses a card with a lower cost. Moreover an incentive may include reward points that may include airline points card points provided by a credit card company retail points provided by a merchant such as a hotel chain etc. Third party incentives include but are not limited to one merchant offering a coupon or discount for a good or service offered by a third party merchant.

Referring to the exemplary functional block diagram includes a client computing device a processing engine a BIN look up engine a BIN table rate look up engine a rate table a rate incentive engine and an incentive table . A client computing device may be a tablet notebook laptop or desktop computer as well as a landline phone mobile phone smartphone or any other client computing device such as a point of sale terminal. Alternative embodiments may have the look up engines and and the processing engine on a server e.g. merchant server Facilitator server etc. and the client computing device may have a web browser as software or be a voice or CSR terminal. The embodiment shown in the processing engine a BIN look up engine a BIN table rate look up engine a rate table a rate incentive engine and an incentive table are on a Facilitator server . A card holder may initiate a payment transaction by rendering a credit card or debit card using a software application on the client computing device . The processing engine may be implemented by Facilitator server that receives the transaction information e.g. card number from the client computing device through a web browser API or other means known in the art and may cause the BIN look up software engine and the rate look up engine to access BIN table and rate table information. Further the processing engine may process the transaction information to determine the associated cost for processing the rendered card for the payment transaction. Note persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand that comparing the embodiment shown in with the embodiment shown in the functionality incorporated in look up engine in may be split between the BIN look up engine and the rate lookup engine in .

Moreover when the customer renders a conventional credit card then the BIN look up engine may access a BIN table and rate look up engine may access a rate table to determine the fees associated for the credit card that may include the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee or any other fee that may be associated with the transaction. For example a customer may access a utility company website such a cellular phone service using a web browser on the client computing device . The customer may render a conventional card number to pay a cellular phone bill. The processing engine receives the rendered conventional credit card number and transaction information then passes the rendered card number to BIN look up engine and the rate look up engine . Further the BIN look up engine and the rate look up engine access BIN and rate information from the BIN table and rate table respectively. Such BIN table and rate table information which may include the interchange fee card network fee processor fee or any other applicable fee may be forwarded to the rate incentive engine . The BIN table and rate table may be stored in a database or other storage device associated with the Facilitator server . In addition the rate incentive engine may calculate the cost of processing the rendered conventional credit card based on such BIN and rate table information. Also using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors the rate incentive engine may determine a convenience fee and incentive corresponding to the rendered credit conventional card. Alternative embodiments include that the different algorithms calculate dynamically the convenience fee based on a discount from a static convenience fee. The static convenience fee may be determined by the factors mentioned above. Such incentive may also listed and stored in the incentive table to be used in future payment transactions. In addition the processing engine and or the rate incentive engine may determine a convenience fee and incentive associated with a different card e.g. debit card that may be more attractive to the customer and having a lower cost to the merchant. Such an alternate card may be suggested to customer through a client computing device web browser API or other means known in the art to the customer.

Referring to an algorithm executed by processing engine may take into account situations when a high cost card e.g. rewards credit card is rendered to calculate the convenience fee of lower cost cards such as conventional credit cards or debit cards and also to provide a better i.e. increased incentive. Consequently the processing engine causes the BIN look up engine and rate look up engine to access a BIN table and rate table respectively to determine BIN and rate information including the fees e.g. interchange fee card network fee processor fee associated in processing the debit card. Further due to the requirements of the Durbin legislation the BIN and rate information may include fees for at least two different debit card processing networks. In addition the BIN and rate information is forwarded to the rate incentive engine which determines the cost for processing the debit card on each network. After determining the lower cost the incentive engine determines an incentive using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors. Typically the cost associated with processing a debit card is lower than processing a conventional credit card. Thus the rate incentive engine and Facilitator server may suggest to the customer to render a debit card corresponding to convenience fee and incentive instead of the conventional credit card corresponding to incentive . Hence convenience fee and incentive may be more attractive than convenience fee and incentive to entice a customer to render a debit card instead of a conventional credit card. For example convenience fee may be 5 and incentive may allow a customer to download 10 free ringtones from the cellular service provider s website. Alternatively convenience fee may be 2 and incentive may allow a customer to download 25 free ringtones.

In alternate embodiments prior to offering two different convenience fees and incentives and the processing engine may cause a query to the user via the web browser of the client computing device to request more information regarding the transaction such as PIN card holder address CVV code etc. Such additional card information may be passed to the BIN look up engine and rate look up engine to access different BIN and rate information that is provided to the incentive engine . Further the rate incentive engine may determine more attractive convenience fees and incentives and to suggest to the customer because typically the cost of processing cards is lower when more rendered information is collected from the customer.

Other embodiments may include that the BIN table rate table incentive table are stored and associated in one or more remote servers and are accessed by the Facilitator server . Further embodiments may include that the BIN and rate look up engines and and or incentive engine may be implemented by an entity other than the Facilitator such as a financial institution merchant or some other third party. Additional embodiments may include that the look up engines and or processing engine may be implemented by the client computing device e.g. POS terminal and the BIN table rate table and incentive table are accessible by the client computer device from a remote server e.g. merchant server Facilitator and or financial server . Persons of ordinary skill in the art would also understand that the rate incentive software engine may be a type of processing engine as shown in .

However in some embodiments a customer may not have or may not choose to render a conventional credit card after receiving the suggestions to use such a conventional credit card with a lower cost and hence a better convenience fee incentive . Thus the customer may render another different card such a different rewards credit card. The processing engine may store second rendered card information and calculate the card s corresponding cost and incentive. Further the processing engine may also calculate alternate incentives. For example the processing engine based on the algorithm may determine that when a customer rendered two different rewards credit cards that it may then calculate the rewards credit card having the lowest cost and suggest such a rewards credit card as an alternate to the customer. Further the processing engine may suggest the previously suggested conventional credit having a lower cost and better incentive. The customer may then render a third card or select one of the previously rendered cards information of which was stored by the computer server to the process a current transaction.

Alternative embodiments with respect to the disclosure including those illustrated in may include providing alternatives or incentives to prompt the user to provide an alternate credit card or use an online payment processing system e.g. PayPal instead of the first credit card the user provided. The following examples illustrate aspects of the present disclosure. A first example may include a merchant taking bill payments via the Internet and or phone. The merchant may be an insurance company qualifying the merchant for processing debit card payments using the EFT Network. Further an insured uses the merchant s website to pay a premium on a car policy. The insured may enter a Visa card number such that the system receives the following information Payment Amount 300.00 Payment Type One Time Bill Payment Merchant Type Insurance and Card Number 3456781234567890. An exemplary system looks up the first 6 digits of the card number in a BIN table 345678 determines that it is a debit card issued by a large financial institution and that the card can be processed through the Visa Network and the NYCE EFT Network. In addition the exemplary system looks up the fees for a One Time Bill Payment of 300.00 through both networks and determines that the Visa Network results in a fee of 0.23 when the all data is present to qualify for the lowest rate on the Visa Network which includes an Invoice Number and the cardholder address. Alternatively the NYCE EFT Network results in a fee of 0.70. The system determines that 1 the lowest fee is achieved by processing the payment through the Visa Network 2 a lower fee cannot be achieved with any other card type 3 the Visa Network requires that the cardholder provides an address. The system also uses the merchant specific fee tables and selects a convenience fee of 2.50. Consequently the merchant uses this information to process the payment through the Visa Network and charge the cardholder a 2.50 convenience fee and prompts the cardholder for the cardholder address.

In another example an insured may use the merchant s phone based system to pay a premium on a car policy. The insured may enter a Visa Card Number and other information such that an exemplary system receives the following information Payment Amount 300.00 Payment Type One Time Bill Payment Merchant Type Insurance and Card Number 2345671234567890. Further the exemplary system looks up the first 6 digits of the card number in a BIN table 234567 and determines that the card is a debit card issued by a small institution and that the card can be processed through the Visa Network and the NYCE EFT Network. In addition the exemplary system looks up the fees for a One Time Bill Payment of 300.00 through both networks and determines that the NYCE EFT Network results in a cost of 0.70 and that the Visa Network results in a fee of 4.75. The system determines that 1 the lowest fee is achieved by processing the payment through the NYCE EFT Network 2 a lower fee cannot be achieved with any other card type 3 the NYCE EFT Network does not require any additional information. The system also uses the merchant specific fee tables and selects a convenience fee of 2.90. The merchant uses this information to process the payment through the NYCE EFT Network and charge the cardholder a fee of 2.90.

In a further example an insured uses the merchant s website to pay a premium on a car policy. The insured enters a Visa Card Number and the exemplary system receives the following information Payment Amount 300.00 Payment Type One Time Bill Payment Merchant Type Insurance Card Number 1234567890123456. In addition the exemplary system looks up the first 6 digits of the card 123456 number in a BIN table and determines that the card is a rewards credit card issued by a large financial institution and that the card can only be processed through the Visa Network card processing network . Further the exemplary system looks up the fees for a One Time Bill Payment of 300.00 through the Visa Network results in a cost of 6.00. The system determines that 1 the lowest fee is achieved by processing the payment through the Visa Network 2 a lower fee can be achieved with a debit card type 3 the Visa Network does not require any additional information. The system also uses the merchant specific fee tables and selects a convenience fee of 10.00. The merchant uses this information to offer the cardholder a fee of 10.00 and suggests that the cardholder can lower this fee by using a debit card or an alternate credit card without rewards.

In an additional example a merchant takes bill payments via the Internet. The merchant is an Internet service provider company qualifying the merchant for processing debit card payments using the EFT Networks. A subscriber uses the merchant s website to pay a monthly bill. Further the subscriber enters a MasterCard Card Number. The exemplary system receives the following information Payment Amount 47.50 Payment Type One Time Bill Payment Merchant Type Internet Service Provider Card Number 5333331234567890. The exemplary system looks up the first 6 digits of the card number 533333 in a BIN table and determines that the card is a debit card issued by a large financial institution and that the card can be processed through the MasterCard Network and the STAR EFT Network.

Thereafter the system may lookup up the fees for a One Time Bill Payment of 47.50 through both networks and determines that the MasterCard Network results in a fee of 0.23 when the all data is present to qualify for the lowest rate on the MasterCard Network which includes an Invoice Number and the cardholder address and that the STAR Network results in a fee of 0.57. The system determines that 1 the lowest fee is achieved by processing the payment through the MasterCard Network 2 a lower fee cannot be achieved with any other card type 3 the MasterCard Network does not require any additional information. The system also uses the merchant incentive tables and selects an incentive of 1 free music or game download. Consequently the merchant uses this information to process the payment through the MasterCard Network and offer the cardholder a coupon for a free music or game download when they make a one time payment or 10 free downloads when they setup a recurring payment.

In a further example an Internet Service subscriber uses the merchant s website pay their monthly bill. The subscriber enters a MasterCard Card Number and the exemplary system receives the following information Payment Amount 47.50 Payment Type One Time Bill Payment Merchant Type Internet Service Provider and Card Number 5666661234567890. The exemplary system looks up the first 6 digits of the card number 566666 in a BIN table and determines that card is a Rewards Credit Card issued by a large financial and that the card can be only processed through the MasterCard Network. The exemplary system lookup up the fees for a One Time Bill Payment of 47.50 through the MasterCard Network results in a cost of 1.00. The system determines that 1 the lowest fee is achieved by processing the payment through the MasterCard 2 a lower fee can be achieved with a debit card 3 the MasterCard Network does not require any additional information. The system also uses the merchant incentive tables and selects no incentive. The merchant uses this information to suggest to the cardholder that they can receive free game music downloads when they pay with a debit card rather than a credit card.

The processing engine may control and or implement one or more software applications as well as receive and transmit data from the one or more communication interfaces . For example the computer server may receive a credit or debit card number as well as payment transaction information from a client computing device or point of sale POS terminal. The processing engine may receive the credit or debit card number and payment transaction information from one of the communication interfaces as well as an API and forwards such credit or debit card number and payment transaction information to the BIN look up engine . Upon receiving the credit or debit card number and payment transaction information the BIN look up engine discerns the bank identification number BIN from the first six digits of the credit or debit card and consults a BIN table to determine the card type e.g. credit debit prepaid etc. issuing financial institution for the card and a network for processing the card. In some embodiments more than one processing network may be available for a card e.g. debit card . Based on the card type issuing financial institution and processing network the BIN look up engine may determine one or more fees for processing the rendered card and forward such fees to the processing engine . Further based on the rendered card and transaction information processing engine may cause the rate look up engine to consult a rate table to determine additional rates fees for the processing the rendered card. The rate look up engine may forward the additional rates fees to the processing engine . The fees determined from the BIN and rate table information may include the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee. The processing engine may determine the cost of processing the rendered card based on the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee. Further the processing engine may determine a convenience fee using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors. Alternatively or in addition the incentive engine may determine an incentive to the customer based on the cost of the processing the rendered card using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors.

Moreover the cost associated in processing a debit card is typically lower than the cost of processing a credit card. Thus when the rendered card was a credit card the computer server may suggest to the customer to use a debit card having a lower convenience fee. As a result the processing engine may cause the BIN look up engine and rate look up engine to access at least the BIN and rate table information for a debit card. Further due to the Durbin legislation the BIN and rate table information for two different debit card processing networks may be provided. The processing engine determines the cost of processing a debit card on the different debit card processing networks and selects the lower cost. In addition the processing engine determines a convenience fee based on the cost as well as using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors. Also the incentive engine may determine an incentive based on the cost of processing the debit card as well as using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors. Alternative embodiments include that the different algorithms calculate dynamically the convenience fee based on a discount from a static convenience fee. The static convenience fee may be determined by the factors mentioned above. As a result the computer server may suggest a convenience fee and or incentive corresponding to a debit card.

In addition prior to determining the cost of processing a rendered card the processing engine may request then receive other card and cardholder information such as the expiration date security code cardholder address or PIN as well as the merchant type and transaction type. The processing engine may then cause the BIN look up engine and the rate look up engine to access different BIN and rate table information that provides a lower cost for processing the rendered card.

Further the computer server may include a payment service engine that can access a service fee table not shown and determine one or more service fees based on the rendered card and transaction information and the service fee table. The service table is generated based on one or more bank identification tables and one or more rate tables and the service fee table are capable of being configured by a merchant.

Each of the communication interfaces shown in may be software or hardware associated in communicating to other devices. The communication interfaces may be of different types that include an API a user interface USB Ethernet WiFi WiMax wireless optical cellular voice IVR or any other communication interface coupled to communication network.

An intra device communication link between the processor bank storage device bank software applications and communication interfaces may be one of several types that include a bus or other communication mechanism.

Persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand that some of the components of the computer server shown in may be split between one or more computer servers such as between a merchant server and a Facilitator server or a financial institution server or a subset thereof. Further although embodiments in the present disclosure use the BIN to be the first six digits of a rendered card number persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the BIN could be more or less than 6 digits.

The processing engine may control and or implement one or more software applications as well as receive and transmit data from the one or more communication interfaces . For example the client computing device may receive a credit or debit card number as well as payment transaction information from a customer through a user interface. The processing engine may forward such credit or debit card number and payment transaction information to the BIN look up engine . Upon receiving the credit or debit card number and payment transaction information the BIN look up engine discerns the bank identification number BIN from the first six digits of the credit or debit card and consults a BIN table to determine the card type e.g. credit debit prepaid etc. issuing financial institution for the card and a network for processing the card. In some embodiments more than one processing network may be available for a card e.g. debit card . Based on the card type issuing financial institution and processing network the BIN look up engine may determine one or more fees for processing the rendered card and forward such fees to the processing engine . Further based on the rendered card and transaction information processing engine may cause the rate look up engine to consult a rate table to determine additional rates fees for the processing the rendered card. The rate look up engine may forward the additional rates fees to the processing engine . The fees determined from the BIN and rate table information may include the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee. The processing engine may determine the cost of processing the rendered card based on the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee. Further the processing engine may determine a convenience fee and or incentive using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors. Alternative embodiments include that the different algorithms calculate dynamically the convenience fee based on a discount from a static convenience fee. The static convenience fee may be determined by the factors mentioned above.

Moreover the cost associated in processing a debit card is typically lower than the cost of processing a credit card. Thus when the rendered card was a credit card the client computing device may suggest to the customer to use a debit card having a lower convenience fee. As a result the processing engine may cause the BIN look up engine and rate look up engine to access at least the BIN and rate table information for a debit card. Further due to the Durban legislation the BIN and rate table information for two different debit card processing networks may be provided. The processing engine determines the cost of processing a debit card on the different debit card processing networks and selects the lower cost. In addition the processing engine determines a convenience fee and incentive based on the cost as well as using different algorithms based on price elasticity volume of card transactions customer demand recurring nature of the transaction or other economic factors. Alternative embodiments include that the different algorithms calculate the convenience fee or incentive based on a discount from a static cost of processing the card As a result the client computing device may suggest a convenience fee and or incentive corresponding to a debit card.

In addition prior to determining the cost of processing a rendered card the processing engine may request then receive other card and cardholder information such as the expiration date security code cardholder address or PIN as well as the merchant type and transaction type. The processing engine may then cause the BIN look up engine and the rate look up engine to access different BIN and rate table information that provides a lower cost for processing the rendered card.

Each of the communication interfaces shown in may be software or hardware associated in communicating to other devices. The communication interfaces may be of different types that include an API a card reader implementing Near Field Communication NFC protocol or some other Radio Frequency RF protocol or magnetic strip a user interface USB Ethernet WiFi WiMax wireless optical cellular voice or any other communication interface coupled to communication network.

An intra device communication link between the processor bank storage device bank software applications and communication interfaces may be one of several types that include a bus or other communication mechanism.

Persons of ordinary skill in the art would understand that some of the components of the client computing device shown in may be split between one or more computer servers such as between a merchant server and a Facilitator server or a financial institution server or a subset thereof.

A further step in the example method may include a processing engine on the Facilitator server to determine the cost of the rendered card based on the interchange fee card network fee and processor fee as shown in block . An additional step may be determining a convenience fee and or incentive of the rendered card by a processing engine or incentive engine residing on the Facilitator server as shown in block . Another step may include the processing engine determining alternate cards that may have a lower cost to process as shown in block . Such a step may include the processing engine causing the look up engines to access BIN and rate table information for alternate cards then determining a convenience fee and or incentive for each alternate card. Such cards may then be suggested provided or presented to the customer. These alternate cards may also be cards that are suggested to the user to render to lower cost or convenience fee of the transaction or provide a larger incentive.

In one embodiment the customer may initiate the payment transaction using a credit card that incurs the card holder a convenience fee of 5. However the processing engine analyzes the fees associated with other credit cards and debit cards. The processing engine on the server may cause the software application on the client computing device to display suggest alternate cards such as a debit card that would incur only 1 convenience fee. Reasons for issuers acquirers and or card networks to charge a lower fee for debit card transactions compared to credit card transaction is because identity of the debit card holder may be verified at the time of the payment transaction with a personal identification number PIN . In another embodiment the merchant may absorb the fees associated with all credit card and debit card transactions.

In another example a customer for a merchant interacts with a POS terminal or telephone and renders a card for payment to purchase goods or services. The POS terminal may interact with a merchant server or a Facilitator server to determine the transaction cost to be 4.30. Based on a certain formulas determined by one or more algorithms implemented by a processing or some other software engine on the Facilitator server or other server or computing device the merchant may charge the customer a 7.00 convenience fee for the transaction. Such a convenience fee may be determined between the merchant and or the Facilitator based on business data e.g. volume of credit card transactions etc. . The 2.70 difference between the 4.30 transaction fee and the 7.00 convenience fee is the facilitator or merchant profit for the transaction. The algorithms implemented by the software engines described in the present disclosure may include requesting more information from the customer e.g. zip code etc. or prompt the customer to use a different type of card business credit card debit card merchant credit card etc. to lower the transaction fee and thereby the convenience fee when the profit remains the same .

The embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented in conjunction with any type of client computing device including a point of sale terminal as well as a client computing device having the capability to access a web based bill payment software program. Such embodiments may include an API so the software interfaces between the client computing device and the merchant server may be abstracted so that such interfaces and parts of the software applications engines may be implemented by a third party server such as a Facilitator server.

Note that the functional blocks methods devices and systems described in the present disclosure may be integrated or divided into different combination of systems devices and functional blocks as would be known to those skilled in the art.

In general it should be understood that the circuits described herein may be implemented in hardware using integrated circuit development technologies or yet via some other methods or the combination of hardware and software objects that could be ordered parameterized and connected in a software environment to implement different functions described herein. For example the present application may be implemented using a general purpose or dedicated processor running a software application through volatile or non volatile memory. Also the hardware objects could communicate using electrical signals with states of the signals representing different data.

It should be further understood that this and other arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that when a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even when a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternate terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. Furthermore the term convenience fee is to be understood to include the term surcharge fee which is a fee that a merchant charges a user for completing a payment transaction using a card.

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

