---

title: Antenna system facilitating reduction of interfering signals
abstract: Described embodiments include an antenna system and method. The antenna system includes a surface scattering antenna that has an electromagnetic waveguide structure and a plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are distributed along the waveguide structure, have a respective activatable electromagnetic response to a guided propagating electromagnetic wave, and produce a controllable radiation pattern. A gain definition circuit defines a radiation pattern configured to acquire a possible interfering signal. The defined antenna radiation pattern has a field of view covering at least a portion of an undesired field of view of an associated antenna. An antenna controller establishes the defined radiation pattern in the surface scattering antenna by activating the respective electromagnetic response of selected electromagnetic wave scattering elements. A correction circuit reduces an influence of the received possible interfering signal in a contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09647345&OS=09647345&RS=09647345
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09647345
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131021
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

U.S. Patent Application No. 61 455 171 entitled SURFACE SCATTERING ANTENNAS naming NATHAN KUNDTZ ET AL. as inventors filed Oct. 15 2010 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 317 338 entitled SURFACE SCATTERING ANTENNAS naming ADAM BILY ANNA K. BOARDMAN RUSSELL J. HANNIGAN JOHN HUNT NATHAN KUNDTZ DAVID R. NASH RYAN ALLAN STEVENSON AND PHILIP A. SULLIVAN as inventors filed Oct. 14 2011 is related to the present application.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 838 934 entitled SURFACE SCATTERING ANTENNA IMPROVEMENTS naming ADAM BILY JEFF DALLAS RUSSELL HANNIGAN NATHAN KUNDTZ DAVID R. NASH and RYAN ALLAN STEVENSON as inventors filed Mar. 15 2013 is related to the present application.

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith. All subject matter of these Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes an antenna system. The antenna system includes a surface scattering antenna. The surface scattering antenna includes an electromagnetic waveguide structure and a plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are distributed along the waveguide structure and have an inter element spacing substantially less than a free space wavelength of a highest operating frequency of the surface scattering antenna. Each electromagnetic wave scattering element of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements has a respective activatable electromagnetic response to a guided wave propagating in the waveguide structure. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation pattern. The antenna system includes a gain definition circuit configured to define a radiation pattern configured to receive a possible interfering signal transmitted within an operating frequency band of an associated antenna having field of view that includes a desired field of view and an undesired field of view. The defined antenna radiation pattern having a field of view covering at least a portion of the undesired field of view of the associated antenna. The antenna system includes an antenna controller configured to establish the defined radiation pattern in the surface scattering antenna by activating the respective electromagnetic response of selected electromagnetic wave scattering elements of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. The antenna system includes a correction circuit configured to reduce an influence of the received possible interfering signal in a contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna.

In an embodiment the antenna system includes the associated antenna with the desired field of view. In an embodiment the antenna system includes a space based navigation system receiver

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes a method. The method includes defining an antenna radiation pattern configured to receive in a surface scattering antenna a possible interfering signal transmitted within an operating frequency band of an associated antenna. The associated antenna having field of view that includes a desired field of view and an undesired field of view and the surface scattering antenna having a field of view covering at least a portion of the undesired field of view. The method includes establishing the defined radiation pattern in the surface scattering antenna by respectively activating the electromagnetic response of selected electromagnetic wave scattering elements of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. The method includes receiving the possible interfering signal with the defined antenna radiation pattern established in the surface scattering antenna. The method includes reducing an influence of the possible interfering signal in a contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna. The surface scattering antenna includes an electromagnetic waveguide structure and the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are distributed along the waveguide structure and having an inter element spacing substantially less than a free space wavelength of a highest operating frequency of the surface scattering antenna. Each electromagnetic wave scattering element of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements has a respective activatable electromagnetic response to a guided wave propagating in the waveguide structure. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation pattern.

In an embodiment the method includes reshaping the antenna radiation pattern established in the surface scattering antenna in response to an aspect of the received possible interfering signal. In this embodiment the method also includes receiving another instance of the possible interfering signal on the operating frequency of the another antenna with the dynamically reshaped antenna radiation pattern established in the surface scattering antenna. In this embodiment the reducing includes reducing an influence of the possible interfering signal in a contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna based upon the received another instance of the possible interfering signal.

For example and without limitation an embodiment of the subject matter described herein includes an antenna system. The antenna system includes means for defining an antenna radiation pattern configured to receive in a surface scattering antenna a possible interfering signal transmitted within an operating frequency band of an associated antenna. The associated antenna has field of view that includes a desired field of view and an undesired field of view and the surface scattering antenna has a field of view covering at least a portion of the undesired field of view. The antenna system includes means for establishing the defined radiation pattern in the surface scattering antenna by respectively activating the electromagnetic response of selected electromagnetic wave scattering elements of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. The antenna system includes means for receiving the possible interfering signal with the defined antenna radiation pattern established in the surface scattering antenna. The antenna system includes means for reducing an influence of the possible interfering signal in a signal contemporaneously received by the associated antenna. The surface scattering antenna includes an electromagnetic waveguide structure and the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are distributed along the waveguide structure and having an inter element spacing substantially less than a free space wavelength of a highest operating frequency of the surface scattering antenna. Each electromagnetic wave scattering element of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements has a respective activatable electromagnetic response to a guided wave propagating in the waveguide structure. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation pattern.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

A schematic illustration of a surface scattering antenna is depicted in . The surface scattering antenna includes a plurality of scattering elements that are distributed along a wave propagating structure . The wave propagating structure may be a microstrip a coplanar waveguide a parallel plate waveguide a dielectric slab a closed or tubular waveguide or any other structure capable of supporting the propagation of a guided wave or surface wave along or within the structure. The wave propagation structure may be an energy feeding structure. The wavy line is a symbolic depiction of the guided wave or surface wave and this symbolic depiction is not intended to indicate an actual wavelength or amplitude of the guided wave or surface wave moreover while the wavy line is depicted as within the wave propagating structure e.g. as for a guided wave in a metallic waveguide for a surface wave the wave may be substantially localized outside the wave propagating structure e.g. as for a TM mode on a single wire transmission line or a spoof plasmon on an artificial impedance surface . The scattering elements may include scattering elements that are embedded within positioned on a surface of or positioned within an evanescent proximity of the wave propagation structure . For example the scattering elements can include complementary metamaterial elements such as those presented in D. R. Smith et al Metamaterials for surfaces and waveguides U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0156573 and A. Bily et al Surface scattering antennas U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012 0194399 each of which is herein incorporated by reference. As another example the scattering elements can include patch elements as discussed below.

The surface scattering antenna also includes at least one feed connector that is configured to couple the wave propagation structure to a feed structure . The feed structure schematically depicted as a coaxial cable may be a transmission line a waveguide or any other structure capable of providing an electromagnetic signal that may be launched via the feed connector into a guided wave or surface wave of the wave propagating structure . The feed connector may be for example a coaxial to microstrip connector e.g. an SMA to PCB adapter a coaxial to waveguide connector a mode matched transition section etc. While depicts the feed connector in an end launch configuration whereby the guided wave or surface wave may be launched from a peripheral region of the wave propagating structure e.g. from an end of a microstrip or from an edge of a parallel plate waveguide in other embodiments the feed structure may be attached to a non peripheral portion of the wave propagating structure whereby the guided wave or surface wave may be launched from that non peripheral portion of the wave propagating structure e.g. from a midpoint of a microstrip or through a hole drilled in a top or bottom plate of a parallel plate waveguide and yet other embodiments may provide a plurality of feed connectors attached to the wave propagating structure at a plurality of locations peripheral and or non peripheral .

The scattering elements are adjustable scattering elements having electromagnetic properties that are adjustable in response to one or more external inputs. Various embodiments of adjustable scattering elements are described for example in D. R. Smith et al previously cited and further in this disclosure. Adjustable scattering elements can include elements that are adjustable in response to voltage inputs e.g. bias voltages for active elements such as varactors transistors diodes or for elements that incorporate tunable dielectric materials such as ferroelectrics or liquid crystals current inputs e.g. direct injection of charge carriers into active elements optical inputs e.g. illumination of a photoactive material field inputs e.g. magnetic fields for elements that include nonlinear magnetic materials mechanical inputs e.g. MEMS actuators hydraulics etc. In the schematic example of scattering elements that have been adjusted to a first state having first electromagnetic properties are depicted as the first elements while scattering elements that have been adjusted to a second state having second electromagnetic properties are depicted as the second elements . The depiction of scattering elements having first and second states corresponding to first and second electromagnetic properties is not intended to be limiting embodiments may provide scattering elements that are discretely adjustable to select from a discrete plurality of states corresponding to a discrete plurality of different electromagnetic properties or continuously adjustable to select from a continuum of states corresponding to a continuum of different electromagnetic properties. Moreover the particular pattern of adjustment that is depicted in i.e. the alternating arrangement of elements and is only an exemplary configuration and is not intended to be limiting.

In the example of the scattering elements have first and second couplings to the guided wave or surface wave that are functions of the first and second electromagnetic properties respectively. For example the first and second couplings may be first and second polarizabilities of the scattering elements at the frequency or frequency band of the guided wave or surface wave. In one approach the first coupling is a substantially nonzero coupling whereas the second coupling is a substantially zero coupling. In another approach both couplings are substantially nonzero but the first coupling is substantially greater than or less than than the second coupling. On account of the first and second couplings the first and second scattering elements are responsive to the guided wave or surface wave to produce a plurality of scattered electromagnetic waves having amplitudes that are functions of e.g. are proportional to the respective first and second couplings. A superposition of the scattered electromagnetic waves comprises an electromagnetic wave that is depicted in this example as a plane wave that radiates from the surface scattering antenna .

The emergence of the plane wave may be understood by regarding the particular pattern of adjustment of the scattering elements e.g. an alternating arrangement of the first and second scattering elements in as a pattern that defines a grating that scatters the guided wave or surface wave to produce the plane wave . Because this pattern is adjustable some embodiments of the surface scattering antenna may provide adjustable gratings or more generally holograms where the pattern of adjustment of the scattering elements may be selected according to principles of holography. Suppose for example that the guided wave or surface wave may be represented by a complex scalar input wave that is a function of position along the wave propagating structure and it is desired that the surface scattering antenna produce an output wave that may be represented by another complex scalar wave . Then a pattern of adjustment of the scattering elements may be selected that corresponds to an interference pattern of the input and output waves along the wave propagating structure. For example the scattering elements may be adjusted to provide couplings to the guided wave or surface wave that are functions of e.g. are proportional to or step functions of an interference term given by Re . In this way embodiments of the surface scattering antenna may be adjusted to provide arbitrary antenna radiation patterns by identifying an output wave corresponding to a selected beam pattern and then adjusting the scattering elements accordingly as above. Embodiments of the surface scattering antenna may therefore be adjusted to provide for example a selected beam direction e.g. beam steering a selected beam width or shape e.g. a fan or pencil beam having a broad or narrow beamwidth a selected arrangement of nulls e.g. null steering a selected arrangement of multiple beams a selected polarization state e.g. linear circular or elliptical polarization a selected overall phase or any combination thereof. Alternatively or additionally embodiments of the surface scattering antenna may be adjusted to provide a selected near field radiation profile e.g. to provide near field focusing and or near field nulls.

Because the spatial resolution of the interference pattern is limited by the spatial resolution of the scattering elements the scattering elements may be arranged along the wave propagating structure with inter element spacings that are much less than a free space wavelength corresponding to a highest operating frequency of the device for example less than one third one fourth or one fifth of this free space wavelength . In some approaches the operating frequency is a microwave frequency selected from frequency bands such as L S C X Ku K Ka Q U V E W F and D corresponding to frequencies ranging from about 1 GHz to 170 GHz and free space wavelengths ranging from millimeters to tens of centimeters. In other approaches the operating frequency is an RF frequency for example in the range of about 100 MHz to 1 GHz. In yet other approaches the operating frequency is a millimeter wave frequency for example in the range of about 170 GHz to 300 GHz. These ranges of length scales admit the fabrication of scattering elements using conventional printed circuit board or lithographic technologies.

In some approaches the surface scattering antenna includes a substantially one dimensional wave propagating structure having a substantially one dimensional arrangement of scattering elements and the pattern of adjustment of this one dimensional arrangement may provide for example a selected antenna radiation profile as a function of zenith angle i.e. relative to a zenith direction that is parallel to the one dimensional wave propagating structure . In other approaches the surface scattering antenna includes a substantially two dimensional wave propagating structure having a substantially two dimensional arrangement of scattering elements and the pattern of adjustment of this two dimensional arrangement may provide for example a selected antenna radiation profile as a function of both zenith and azimuth angles i.e. relative to a zenith direction that is perpendicular to the two dimensional wave propagating structure . Exemplary adjustment patterns and beam patterns for a surface scattering antenna that includes a two dimensional array of scattering elements distributed on a planar rectangular wave propagating structure are depicted in . In these exemplary embodiments the planar rectangular wave propagating structure includes a monopole antenna feed that is positioned at the geometric center of the structure. presents an adjustment pattern that corresponds to a narrow beam having a selected zenith and azimuth as depicted by the beam pattern diagram of . presents an adjustment pattern that corresponds to a dual beam far field pattern as depicted by the beam pattern diagram of . presents an adjustment pattern that provides near field focusing as depicted by the field intensity map of which depicts the field intensity along a plane perpendicular to and bisecting the long dimension of the rectangular wave propagating structure .

In some approaches the wave propagating structure is a modular wave propagating structure and a plurality of modular wave propagating structures may be assembled to compose a modular surface scattering antenna. For example a plurality of substantially one dimensional wave propagating structures may be arranged for example in an interdigital fashion to produce an effective two dimensional arrangement of scattering elements. The interdigital arrangement may comprise for example a series of adjacent linear structures i.e. a set of parallel straight lines or a series of adjacent curved structures i.e. a set of successively offset curves such as sinusoids that substantially fills a two dimensional surface area. These interdigital arrangements may include a feed connector having a tree structure e.g. a binary tree providing repeated forks that distribute energy from the feed structure to the plurality of linear structures or the reverse thereof . As another example a plurality of substantially two dimensional wave propagating structures each of which may itself comprise a series of one dimensional structures as above may be assembled to produce a larger aperture having a larger number of scattering elements and or the plurality of substantially two dimensional wave propagating structures may be assembled as a three dimensional structure e.g. forming an A frame structure a pyramidal structure or other multi faceted structure . In these modular assemblies each of the plurality of modular wave propagating structures may have its own feed connector s and or the modular wave propagating structures may be configured to couple a guided wave or surface wave of a first modular wave propagating structure into a guided wave or surface wave of a second modular wave propagating structure by virtue of a connection between the two structures.

In some applications of the modular approach the number of modules to be assembled may be selected to achieve an aperture size providing a desired telecommunications data capacity and or quality of service and or a three dimensional arrangement of the modules may be selected to reduce potential scan loss. Thus for example the modular assembly could comprise several modules mounted at various locations orientations flush to the surface of a vehicle such as an aircraft spacecraft watercraft ground vehicle etc. the modules need not be contiguous . In these and other approaches the wave propagating structure may have a substantially non linear or substantially non planar shape whereby to conform to a particular geometry therefore providing a conformal surface scattering antenna conforming for example to the curved surface of a vehicle .

More generally a surface scattering antenna is a reconfigurable antenna that may be reconfigured by selecting a pattern of adjustment of the scattering elements so that a corresponding scattering of the guided wave or surface wave produces a desired output wave. Suppose for example that the surface scattering antenna includes a plurality of scattering elements distributed at positions r along a wave propagating structure as in or along multiple wave propagating structures for a modular embodiment and having a respective plurality of adjustable couplings to the guided wave or surface wave . The guided wave or surface wave as it propagates along or within the one or more wave propagating structure s presents a wave amplitude Aand phase to the jth scattering element subsequently an output wave is generated as a superposition of waves scattered from the plurality of scattering elements 

where E represents the electric field component of the output wave on a far field radiation sphere R represents a normalized electric field pattern for the scattered wave that is generated by the jth scattering element in response to an excitation caused by the coupling and k represents a wave vector of magnitude w c that is perpendicular to the radiation sphere at . Thus embodiments of the surface scattering antenna may provide a reconfigurable antenna that is adjustable to produce a desired output wave E by adjusting the plurality of couplings in accordance with equation 1 .

The wave amplitude Aand phase of the guided wave or surface wave are functions of the propagation characteristics of the wave propagating structure . These propagation characteristics may include for example an effective refractive index and or an effective wave impedance and these effective electromagnetic properties may be at least partially determined by the arrangement and adjustment of the scattering elements along the wave propagating structure. In other words the wave propagating structure in combination with the adjustable scattering elements may provide an adjustable effective medium for propagation of the guided wave or surface wave e.g. as described in D. R. Smith et al previously cited. Therefore although the wave amplitude Aand phase of the guided wave or surface wave may depend upon the adjustable scattering element couplings i.e. A A in some embodiments these dependencies may be substantially predicted according to an effective medium description of the wave propagating structure.

In some approaches the reconfigurable antenna is adjustable to provide a desired polarization state of the output wave E . Suppose for example that first and second subsets LPand LPof the scattering elements provide normalized electric field patterns R and R respectively that are substantially linearly polarized and substantially orthogonal for example the first and second subjects may be scattering elements that are perpendicularly oriented on a surface of the wave propagating structure . Then the antenna output wave E may be expressed as a sum of two linearly polarized components 

are the complex amplitudes of the two linearly polarized components. Accordingly the polarization of the output wave E may be controlled by adjusting the plurality of couplings in accordance with equations 2 3 e.g. to provide an output wave with any desired polarization e.g. linear circular or elliptical .

Alternatively or additionally for embodiments in which the wave propagating structure has a plurality of feeds e.g. one feed for each finger of an interdigital arrangement of one dimensional wave propagating structures as discussed above a desired output wave E may be controlled by adjusting gains of individual amplifiers for the plurality of feeds. Adjusting a gain for a particular feed line would correspond to multiplying the A s by a gain factor G for those elements j that are fed by the particular feed line. Especially for approaches in which a first wave propagating structure having a first feed or a first set of such structures feeds is coupled to elements that are selected from LPand a second wave propagating structure having a second feed or a second set of such structures feeds is coupled to elements that are selected from LP depolarization loss e.g. as a beam is scanned off broadside may be compensated by adjusting the relative gain s between the first feed s and the second feed s .

As mentioned previously in the context of in some approaches the surface scattering antenna includes a wave propagating structure that may be implemented as a closed waveguide or a plurality of closed waveguides and in these approaches the scattering elements may include complementary metamaterial elements or patch elements. Exemplary closed waveguides that include complementary metamaterial elements are depicted in of A. Bily et al previously cited. Another exemplary closed waveguide embodiment that includes patch elements is presently depicted in . In this embodiment a closed waveguide with a rectangular cross section is defined by a trough and a first printed circuit board having three layers a lower conductor a middle dielectric and an upper conductor . The upper and lower conductors may be electrically connected by stitching vias not shown . The trough can be implemented as a piece of metal that is milled or cast to provide the floor and walls of the closed waveguide with the first printed circuit board providing the waveguide ceiling. Alternatively the trough may be implemented with an epoxy laminate material such as FR 4 in which the waveguide channel is routed or machined and then plated e.g. with copper using a process similar to a standard PCB through hole via process. Overlaid on the first printed circuit board are a dielectric spacer and second printed circuit board . As the unit cell cutaway shows the conducting surface has an iris that permits coupling between a guided wave and the resonator element which in this case is a rectangular patch element disposed on the lower surface of the second printed circuit board . A via through the dielectric layer of the second printed circuit board can be used to connect a bias voltage line to the patch element . The patch element may be optionally bounded by colonnades of vias extended through the dielectric layer to reduce coupling or crosstalk between adjacent unit cells. The dielectric spacer includes a cutout region between the iris and the patch and this cutout region is filled with an electrically tunable medium such as a liquid crystal medium to accomplish tuning of the cell resonance.

While the waveguide embodiment of provides a waveguide having a simple rectangular cross section in some approaches the waveguide may include one or more ridges as in a double ridged waveguide . Ridged waveguides can provide greater bandwidth than simple rectangular waveguides and the ridge geometries widths heights can be varied along the length of the waveguide to control the couplings to the scattering elements e.g. to enhance aperture efficiency and or control aperture tapering of the beam profile and or to provide a smooth impedance transition e.g. from an SMA connector feed . Alternatively or additionally the waveguide may be loaded with a dielectric material such as PTFE . This dielectric material can occupy all or a portion of the waveguide cross section and the amount of the cross section that is occupied can also be tapered along the length of the waveguide.

While the example of depicts a rectangular patch fed by a narrow iris a variety of patch and iris geometries may be used with exemplary configurations depicted in . These figures depict the placement of patches and irises when viewed looking down upon a closed waveguide having a center axis . shows rectangular patches oriented along the y direction and edge fed by slit like irises oriented along the x direction. shows hexagonal patches center fed by circular irises . The hexagonal patches may include notches to adjust the resonant frequencies of the patches. It will be appreciated that the irises and patches can take a variety of other shapes including rectangles squares ellipses circles or polygons with or without notches or tabs to adjust resonant frequencies and that the relative lateral x and or y position between patch and iris may be adjusted to achieve a desired patch response e.g. edge fed or center fed. For example an offset feed may be used to stimulate circularly polarization radiation. The positions shapes and or sizes of the irises and or patches can be gradually adjusted or tapered along the length of the waveguide to control the waveguide couplings to the patch elements e.g. to enhance overall aperture efficiency and or control aperture tapering of the beam profile .

Because the irises couple the patches to the guided wave mode by means of the H field that is present at the upper surface of the waveguide the irises can be particularly positioned along the y direction perpendicular to the waveguide to exploit the pattern of this H field at the upper surface of the waveguide. depicts this H field pattern for the dominant TE10 mode of a rectangular waveguide. On the center axis of the waveguide the H field is entirely directed along the x direction whereas at the edge of the waveguide the H field is entirely directed along the y direction. For a slit like iris oriented along the x direction the iris mediated coupling between the patch and the waveguide can be adjusted by changing the x position of the iris thus for example slit like irises can be positioned equidistant from the center axis on left and right sides of the waveguide for equal coupling as in . This x positioning of the irises can also be gradually adjusted or tapered along the length of the waveguide to control the couplings to the patch elements e.g. to enhance overall aperture efficiency and or control aperture tapering of the beam profile .

For positions intermediate between the center axis and the edge in the H field has both x and y components and sweeps out an ellipse at a fixed iris location as the guided wave mode propagates along the waveguide. Thus the iris mediated coupling between the patch and the waveguide can be adjusted by changing the x position of the iris changing the distance from the center axis adjusts the eccentricity of the coupled H field which switching from one side of the center axis to the other side reverses the direction of rotation of the coupled H field.

In one approach the rotation of the H field for a fixed position away from the center axis of the waveguide can be exploited to provide a beam that is circularly polarized by virtue of this H field rotation. A patch with two resonant modes having mutually orthogonal polarization states can leverage the rotation of the H field excitation to result in a circular or elliptical polarization. For example for a guided wave TE10 mode that propagates in the y direction of positioning an iris and center fed square or circular patch halfway between the center axis and the left edge of the waveguide will yield a right circular polarized radiation pattern for the patch while positioning the iris and center fed square or circular patch halfway between the center axis and the right edge of the waveguide will yield a left circular polarized radiation pattern for the patch. Thus the antenna may be switched between polarization states by switching from active elements on the left half of the waveguide to active elements on the right half of the waveguide or vice versa or by reversing the direction of propagation of the guided wave TE10 mode e.g. by feeding the waveguide from the opposite end .

Alternatively for scattering elements that yield linear polarization patterns as for the configuration of the linear polarization may be converted to circular polarization by placing a linear to circular polarization conversion structure above the scattering elements. For example a quarter wave plate or meander line structure may be positioned above the scattering elements. Quarter wave plates may include anisotropic dielectric materials see e.g. H. S. Kirschbaum and S. Chen A Method of Producing Broad Band Circular Polarization Employing an Anisotropic Dielectric IRE Trans. Micro. Theory. Tech. Vol. 5 No. 3 pp. 199 203 1957 J. Y. Chin et al An efficient broadband metamaterial wave retarder Optics Express Vol. 17 No. 9 pp. 7640 7647 2009 and or may also be implemented as artificial magnetic materials see e.g. Dunbao Yan et al A Novel Polarization Convert Surface Based on Artificial Magnetic Conductor Asia Pacific Microwave Conference Proceedings 2005 . Meander line polarizers typically consist of two three four or more layers of conducting meander line arrays e.g. copper on a thin dielectric substrate such as Duroid with interleaved spacer layers e.g. closed cell foam . Meander line polarizers may be designed and implemented according to known techniques for example as described in Young et. al. Meander Line Polarizer IEEE Trans. Ant. Prop. pp. 376 378 May 1973 and in R. S. Chu and K. M. Lee Analytical Model of a Multilayered Meander Line Polarizer Plate with Normal and Oblique Plane Wave Incidence IEEE Trans. Ant. Prop. Vol. AP 35 No. 6 pp. 652 661 June 1987. In embodiments that include a linear to circular polarization conversion structure the conversion structure may be incorporated into or may function as a radome providing environmental insulation for the antenna. Moreover the conversion structure may be flipped over to reverse the polarization state of the transmitted or received radiation.

The electrically tunable medium that occupies the cutaway region between the iris and patch in may include a liquid crystal. Liquid crystals have a permittivity that is a function of orientation of the molecules comprising the liquid crystal and that orientation may be controlled by applying a bias voltage equivalently a bias electric field across the liquid crystal accordingly liquid crystals can provide a voltage tunable permittivity for adjustment of the electromagnetic properties of the scattering element. Exemplary liquid crystals that may be deployed in various embodiments include 4 Cyano 4 pentylbiphenyl and high birefringence eutectic LC mixtures such as LCMS 107 LC Matter or GT3 23001 Merck .

Some approaches may utilize dual frequency liquid crystals. In dual frequency liquid crystals the liquid crystal director aligns substantially parallel to an applied bias field at a lower frequencies but substantially perpendicular to an applied bias field at higher frequencies. Accordingly for approaches that deploy these dual frequency liquid crystals tuning of the scattering elements may be accomplished by adjusting the frequency of the applied bias voltage signals.

Other approaches may deploy polymer network liquid crystals PNLCs or polymer dispersed liquid crystals PDLCs which generally provide much shorter relaxation switching times for the liquid crystal. An example is a thermal or UV cured mixture of a polymer such as BPA dimethacrylate in a nematic LC host such as LCMS 107 cf. Y. H. Fan et al Fast response and scattering free polymer network liquid crystals for infrared light modulators 84 1233 35 2004 herein incorporated by reference. Whether the polymer liquid crystal mixture is described as a PNLC or a PDLC depends upon the relative concentration of polymer and liquid crystal the latter having a higher concentration of polymer whereby the LC is confined in the polymer network as droplets.

Some approaches may include a liquid crystal that is embedded within an interstitial medium. An example is a porous polymer material such as a PTFE membrane impregnated with a nematic LC such as LCMS 107 cf. T. Kuki et al Microwave variable delay line using a membrane impregnated with liquid crystal 2002 vol. 1 pp. 363 366 2002 herein incorporated by reference.

The interstitial medium is preferably a porous material that provides a large surface area for strong surface alignment of the unbiased liquid crystal. Examples of such porous materials include ultra high molecular weight polyethylene UHMW PE and expanded polytetraflouroethylene ePTFE membranes that have been treated to be hydrophilic. Specific examples of such interstitial media include Advantec MFS Inc. Part H020A047A hydrophilic ePTFE and DeWal Industries 402P UHMW PE .

In the patch arrangement of it may be seen that the voltage biasing of the patch antenna relative to the conductive surface containing the iris will induce a substantially vertical z direction alignment of the liquid crystal that occupies the cutaway region . Accordingly to enhance the tuning effect it may be desirable to arrange the interstitial medium and or alignment layers to provide an unbiased liquid crystal alignment that is substantially horizontal e.g. in the y direction . An example of such an arrangement is depicted in which shows an exploded diagram of the same elements as in . In this example the upper conductor of the lower circuit board presents a lower alignment layer that is aligned along the y direction. This alignment layer may be implemented by for example coating the lower circuit board with a polyimide layer and rubbing or otherwise patterning e.g. by machining or photolithography the polyimide layer to introduce microscopic grooves that run parallel to the y direction. Similarly the upper dielectric and patch present an upper alignment layer that is also aligned along the y direction. A liquid crystal impregnated interstitial medium fills the cutaway region of the spacer layer as depicted schematically in the figure the interstitial medium may be designed and arranged to include microscopic pores that extend along the y direction to present a large surface area for the liquid crystal that is substantially along the y direction.

In some approaches it may be desirable to introduce one or more counter electrodes into the unit cell so that the unit cell can provide both a first biasing that aligns the liquid crystal substantially parallel to the electric field lines of the unit cell resonance mode and a second biasing counter biasing that aligns the liquid crystal substantially perpendicular to the electric field lines of the unit cell resonance mode. One advantage of introducing counter biasing is that that the unit cell tuning speed is then no longer limited by a passive relaxation time of the liquid crystal.

For purposes of characterizing counter electrode arrangements it is useful to distinguish between in plane switching schemes where the resonators are defined by conducting islands coplanar with a ground plane e.g. as with the so called CELC resonators such as those described in A. Bily et al previously cited and vertical switching schemes where the resonators are defined by patches positioned vertically above a ground plane containing irises e.g. as in .

A counter electrode arrangement for an in plane switching scheme is depicted in which shows a unit cell resonator defined by an inner electrode or conducting island and an outer electrode or ground plane . The liquid crystal material is enclosed above the resonator by an enclosing structure e.g. a polycarbonate container. In the exemplary counter electrode arrangement of the counter electrode is provided as a very thin layer of a conducting material such as chromium or titanium deposited on the upper surface of the enclosing structure . The layer is thin enough e.g. 10 30 nm to introduce only small loss at antenna operating frequencies but sufficiently conductive that the 1 RC charging rate is small compared to the unit cell update rate. In other approaches the conducting layer is an organic conductor such as polyacetylene which can be spin coated on the enclosing structure . In yet other approaches the conducting layer is an anisotropic conducting layer i.e. having two conductivities and for two orthogonal directions along the layer and the anisotropic conducting layer may be aligned relative to the unit cell resonator so that the effective conductivity seen by the unit cell resonator is minimized. For example the anisotropic conducting layer may consist of wires or stripes that are aligned substantially perpendicular to the electric field lines of the unit cell resonance mode.

By applying a first bias corresponding to a voltage differential V Vbetween the inner electrode and outer electrode a first substantially horizontal bias electric field is established substantially parallel to electric field lines of the unit cell resonance mode. On the other hand by applying a second bias corresponding to a voltage differential V V V Vbetween the counter electrode and the inner and outer electrodes and a second substantially vertical bias electric field is established substantially perpendicular to electric field lines of the unit cell resonance mode.

In some approaches the second bias may be applied for a duration shorter than a relaxation time of the liquid crystal for example the second bias may be applied for less than one half or one third of this relaxation time. One advantage of this approach is that while the application of the second bias seeds the relaxation of the liquid crystal it may be preferable to have the liquid crystal then relax to an unbiased state rather than align according to the bias electric field.

A counter electrode arrangement for a vertical switching scheme is depicted in which shows a unit cell resonator defined by an upper patch and a lower ground plane containing an iris . The liquid crystal material is enclosed within the region between the upper dielectric layer supporting the upper patch and the lower dielectric layer supporting the lower ground plane . In the exemplary counter electrode arrangement of the counter electrode is provided as a very thin layer of a conducting material such as chromium or titanium deposited on the lower surface of the upper dielectric layer . The layer is thin enough e.g. 10 30 nm to introduce only small loss at antenna operating frequencies but sufficiently conductive that the 1 RC charging rate is small compared to the unit cell update rate. Other approaches may use organic conductors or anisotropic conducting layers as described above.

By applying a first bias corresponding to a voltage differential V V V Vbetween the upper and counter electrodes and and lower electrode a first substantially vertical bias electric field is established substantially parallel to electric field lines of the unit cell resonance mode. On the other hand by applying a second bias corresponding to a voltage differential V Vbetween the counter electrode and the upper electrode a second substantially horizontal bias electric field is established substantially perpendicular to electric field lines of the unit cell resonance mode. Again in some approaches the second bias may be applied for a duration shorter than a relaxation time of the liquid crystal for the same reason as discussed above for horizontal switching. In various embodiments of the vertical switching scheme the counter electrode may constitute a pair of electrodes on opposite sides of the patch or a U shaped electrode that surrounds three sides of the patch or a closed loop that surrounds all four sides of the patch .

In various approaches the bias voltage lines may be directly addressed e.g. by extending a bias voltage line for each scattering element to a pad structure for connection to antenna control circuitry or matrix addressed e.g. by providing each scattering element with a voltage bias circuit that is addressable by row and column. depicts an example of a configuration that provides direct addressing for an arrangement of scattering elements in which a plurality of bias voltage lines deliver individual bias voltages to the scattering elements. depicts an example of a configuration that provides matrix addressing for an arrangement of scattering elements where each scattering element is connected by a bias voltage line to a biasing circuit addressable by row inputs and column inputs note that each row input and or column input may include one or more signals e.g. each row or column may be addressed by a single wire or a set of parallel wires dedicated to that row or column . Each biasing circuit may contain for example a switching device e.g. a transistor a storage device e.g. a capacitor and or additional circuitry such as logic multiplexing circuitry digital to analog conversion circuitry etc. This circuitry may be readily fabricated using monolithic integration e.g. using a thin film transistor TFT process or as a hybrid assembly of integrated circuits that are mounted on the wave propagating structure e.g. using surface mount technology SMT . Although depict the scattering elements as CELC resonators this depiction is intended to represent generic scattering elements and the direct or matrix addressing schemes of are applicable to other unit cell designs such as the patch element .

For approaches that use liquid crystal as a tunable medium for the unit cell it may be desirable to provide unit cell bias voltages that are AC signals with a minimal DC component. Prolonged DC operation can cause electrochemical reactions that significantly reduce the usable lifespan of the liquid crystal as a tunable medium. In some approaches a unit cell may be tuned by adjusting the amplitude of an AC bias signal. In other approaches a unit cell may be tuned by adjusting the pulse width of an AC bias signal e.g. using pulse width modulation PWM . In yet other approaches a unit cell may be tuned by adjusting both the amplitude and pulse with of an AC bias signal. Various liquid crystal drive schemes have been extensively explored in the liquid crystal display literature for example as described in Robert Chen Wiley New Jersey 2011 and in Willem den Boer Elsevier Burlington Mass. 2009.

Exemplary waveforms for a binary ON OFF bias voltage adjustment scheme are depicted in . In this binary scheme a first square wave voltage V is applied to inner electrode of a unit cell and a second square wave voltage Vis applied to outer electrode of the unit cell. Although the figure depicts a CELC resonator defined by a conducting island inner electrode coplanar with a ground plane outer electrode this depiction is intended to represent a generic unit cell and the drive scheme is applicable to other unit cell designs. For example for a patch resonator defined by a conducting patch positioned vertically above an iris in a ground plane the first square wave voltage V may be applied to the patch while the second square wave voltage Vmay be applied to the ground plane.

In the binary scheme of the unit cell is biased ON when the two square waves are 180 out of phase with each other with the result that the potential applied to the liquid crystal V V V is a square wave with zero DC offset as shown in the top right panel of the figure. On the other hand the unit cell is biased OFF when the two square waves are in phase with each other with the result that V 0 as shown in the bottom right panel of the figure. The square wave amplitude VPP is a voltage large enough to effect rapid alignment of the liquid crystal typically in the range of 10 100 volts. The square wave frequency is a drive frequency that is large compared to both the desired antenna switching rate and liquid crystal relaxation rates. The drive frequency can range from as low as 10 Hz to as high as 100 kHz.

Exemplary circuitry providing the waveforms of to a plurality of unit cells is depicted in . In this example bits representing the ON or OFF states of the unit cells are read into a N bit serial to parallel shift register using the DATA and CLK signals. When this serial read in is complete the LATCH signal is triggered to store these bits in an N bit latch . The N bit latch outputs which may be toggled with XOR gates via the POL signal provide the inputs for high voltage push pull amplifiers that deliver the waveforms to the unit cells. Note that one or more bits of the shift register may be reserved to provide the waveform for the common outer electrode while the remaining bits of the shift register provide the individual waveforms for the inner electrodes of the unit cells. Alternatively the entire shift register may be used for inner electrodes and a separate push pull amplifier may be used for the outer electrode . Square waves may be produced at the outputs of the push pull amplifiers by either 1 toggling the XOR gates at the drive frequency i.e. with a POL signal that is a square wave at the drive frequency or 2 latching at twice the drive frequency i.e. with a LATCH signal that is a square wave at twice the drive frequency while reading in complementary bits during the second half cycle of each drive period. Under the latter approach because there is an N bit read in during each half cycle of the drive period the serial input data is clocked at a frequency not less than 2 N f where f is the drive frequency. The N bit shift register may address all of the unit cells that compose the antenna or several N bit shift registers may be used each addressing a subset of the unit cells.

The binary scheme of applies voltage waveforms to both the inner and outer electrode of the unit cell. In another approach shown in the outer electrode is grounded and a voltage waveform is applied only to the inner electrode of the unit cell. In this single ended drive approach the unit cell is biased ON when a square wave with zero DC offset is applied to the inner electrode as shown in the top right panel of and biased OFF when a zero voltage is applied to the inner electrode as shown in the bottom right panel of .

Exemplary circuitry providing the waveforms of to a plurality of unit cells is depicted in . The circuitry is similar to that of except that the common outer electrode is now grounded and new oscillating power supply voltages VPP and VDD are used for the high voltage circuits and the digital circuits respectively with the ground terminals of these circuits being connected to a new negative oscillating power supply voltage VNN . Exemplary waveforms for these oscillating power supply voltages are shown in the lower panel of the figure. Note that these oscillating power supply voltages preserve the voltage differentials VPP VNN VPP and VDD VNN VDD where VPP is the desired amplitude of the voltage Vapplied to the liquid crystal and VDD is the power supply voltage for the digital circuitry. For the digital inputs to operate properly with these oscillating power supplies the single ended drive circuitry also includes voltage shifting circuitry presenting these digital inputs as signals relative to VNN rather than GND.

Exemplary waveforms for a grayscale voltage adjustment scheme are depicted in . In this grayscale scheme a first square wave voltage Vis again applied to inner electrode of a unit cell and a second square wave voltage Vis again applied to outer electrode of the unit cell. A desired gray level is then achieved by selecting a phase difference between the two square waves. In one approach as shown in the drive period is divided into a discrete set of time slices corresponding to a discrete set of phase differences between the two square waves. In the nonlimiting example of there are eight 8 time slices providing five 5 gray levels corresponding to phase differences of 0 45 90 135 and 180 . The figure depicts two gray level examples for a phase difference of 45 as shown in the upper right panel of the figure the potential applied to the liquid crystal V V V is an alternating pulse train with zero DC offset and an RMS voltage of VPP 4 for a phase difference of 90 as shown in the lower right panel of the figure Vis an alternating pulse train with zero DC offset and an RMS voltage of VPP 2. Thus the gray level scheme of provides a pulse width modulated PWM liquid crystal waveform with zero DC offset and an adjustable RMS voltage.

The drive circuitry of may be used to provide the grayscale waveforms of to a plurality of unit cells. However for a grayscale implementation an N bit read in is completed during each time slice of the drive period. Thus for an implementation with T time slices corresponding to T 2 1 gray levels the serial input data is clocked at a frequency not less than T N f where f is the drive frequency it will be appreciated that T 2 corresponds to the binary drive scheme of .

With reference now to an illustrative embodiment is depicted as a system block diagram. The system include a communications unit coupled by one or more feeds to an antenna unit . The communications unit might include for example a mobile broadband satellite transceiver or a transmitter receiver or transceiver module for a radio or microwave communications system and may incorporate data multiplexing demultiplexing circuitry encoder decoder circuitry modulator demodulator circuitry frequency upconverters downconverters filters amplifiers diplexes etc. The antenna unit includes at least one surface scattering antenna which may be configured to transmit receive or both and in some approaches the antenna unit may comprise multiple surface scattering antennas e.g. first and second surface scattering antennas respectively configured to transmit and receive. For embodiments having a surface scattering antenna with multiple feeds the communications unit may include MIMO circuitry. The system also includes an antenna controller configured to provide control input s that determine the configuration of the antenna. For example the control inputs s may include inputs for each of the scattering elements e.g. for a direct addressing configuration such as depicted in row and column inputs e.g. for a matrix addressing configuration such as that depicted in adjustable gains for the antenna feeds etc.

In some approaches the antenna controller includes circuitry configured to provide control input s that correspond to a selected or desired antenna radiation pattern. For example the antenna controller may store a set of configurations of the surface scattering antenna e.g. as a lookup table that maps a set of desired antenna radiation patterns corresponding to various beam directions beams widths polarization states etc. as discussed earlier in this disclosure to a corresponding set of values for the control input s . This lookup table may be previously computed e.g. by performing full wave simulations of the antenna for a range of values of the control input s or by placing the antenna in a test environment and measuring the antenna radiation patterns corresponding to a range of values of the control input s . In some approaches the antenna controller may be configured to use this lookup table to calculate the control input s according to a regression analysis for example by interpolating values for the control input s between two antenna radiation patterns that are stored in the lookup table e.g. to allow continuous beam steering when the lookup table only includes discrete increments of a beam steering angle . The antenna controller may alternatively be configured to dynamically calculate the control input s corresponding to a selected or desired antenna radiation pattern e.g. by computing a holographic pattern corresponding to an interference term Re as discussed earlier in this disclosure or by computing the couplings corresponding to values of the control input s that provide the selected or desired antenna radiation pattern in accordance with equation 1 presented earlier in this disclosure.

In some approaches the antenna unit optionally includes a sensor unit having sensor components that detect environmental conditions of the antenna such as its position orientation temperature mechanical deformation etc. . The sensor components can include one or more GPS devices gyroscopes thermometers strain gauges etc. and the sensor unit may be coupled to the antenna controller to provide sensor data so that the control input s may be adjusted to compensate for translation or rotation of the antenna e.g. if it is mounted on a mobile platform such as an aircraft or for temperature drift mechanical deformation etc.

In some approaches the communications unit may provide feedback signal s to the antenna controller for feedback adjustment of the control input s . For example the communications unit may provide a bit error rate signal and the antenna controller may include feedback circuitry e.g. DSP circuitry that adjusts the antenna configuration to reduce the channel noise. Alternatively or additionally for pointing or steering applications the communications unit may provide a beacon signal e.g. from a satellite beacon and the antenna controller may include feedback circuitry e.g. pointing lock DSP circuitry for a mobile broadband satellite transceiver .

An illustrative embodiment is depicted as a process flow diagram in . Flow includes operation selecting a first antenna radiation pattern for a surface scattering antenna that is adjustable responsive to one or more control inputs. For example an antenna radiation pattern may be selected that directs a primary beam of the radiation pattern at the location of a telecommunications satellite a telecommunications base station or a telecommunications mobile platform. Alternatively or additionally an antenna radiation pattern may be selected to place nulls of the radiation pattern at desired locations e.g. for secure communications or to remove a noise source. Alternatively or additionally an antenna radiation pattern may be selected to provide a desired polarization state such as circular polarization e.g. for Ka band satellite communications or linear polarization e.g. for Ku band satellite communications . Flow includes operation determining first values of the one or more control inputs corresponding to the first selected antenna radiation pattern. For example in the system of the antenna controller can include circuitry configured to determine values of the control inputs by using a lookup table or by computing a hologram corresponding to the desired antenna radiation pattern. Flow optionally includes operation providing the first values of the one or more control inputs for the surface scattering antenna. For example the antenna controller can apply bias voltages to the various scattering elements and or the antenna controller can adjust the gains of antenna feeds. Flow optionally includes operation selecting a second antenna radiation pattern different from the first antenna radiation pattern. Again this can include selecting for example a second beam direction or a second placement of nulls. In one application of this approach a satellite communications terminal can switch between multiple satellites e.g. to optimize capacity during peak loads to switch to another satellite that may have entered service or to switch from a primary satellite that has failed or is off line. Flow optionally includes operation determining second values of the one or more control inputs corresponding to the second selected antenna radiation pattern. Again this can include for example using a lookup table or computing a holographic pattern. Flow optionally includes operation providing the second values of the one or more control inputs for the surface scattering antenna. Again this can include for example applying bias voltages and or adjusting feed gains.

Another illustrative embodiment is depicted as a process flow diagram in . Flow includes operation identifying a first target for a first surface scattering antenna the first surface scattering antenna having a first adjustable radiation pattern responsive to one or more first control inputs. This first target could be for example a telecommunications satellite a telecommunications base station or a telecommunications mobile platform. Flow includes operation repeatedly adjusting the one or more first control inputs to provide a substantially continuous variation of the first adjustable radiation pattern responsive to a first relative motion between the first target and the first surface scattering antenna. For example in the system of the antenna controller can include circuitry configured to steer a radiation pattern of the surface scattering antenna e.g. to track the motion of a non geostationary satellite to maintain pointing lock with a geostationary satellite from a mobile platform such as an airplane or other vehicle or to maintain pointing lock when both the target and the antenna are moving. Flow optionally includes operation identifying a second target for a second surface scattering antenna the second surface scattering antenna having a second adjustable radiation pattern responsive to one or more second control inputs and flow optionally includes operation repeatedly adjusting the one or more second control inputs to provide a substantially continuous variation of the second adjustable radiation pattern responsive to a relative motion between the second target and the second surface scattering antenna. For example some applications may deploy both a primary antenna unit tracking a first object such as a first non geostationary satellite and a secondary or auxiliary antenna unit tracking a second object such as a second non geostationary satellite . In some approaches the auxiliary antenna unit may include a smaller aperture antenna tx and or rx primarily used to track the location of the secondary object and optionally to secure a link to the secondary object at a reduced quality of service QoS . Flow optionally includes operation adjusting the one or more first control inputs to place the second target substantially within the primary beam of the first adjustable radiation pattern. For example in an application in which the first and second antennas are components of a satellite communications terminal that interacts with a constellation of non geostationary satellites the first or primary antenna may track a first member of the satellite constellation until the first member approaches the horizon or the first antenna suffers appreciable scan loss at which time a handoff is accomplished by switching the first antenna to track the second member of the satellite constellation which was being tracked by the second or auxiliary antenna . Flow optionally includes operation identifying a new target for a second surface scattering antenna different from the first and second targets and flow optionally includes operation adjusting the one or more second control inputs to place the new target substantially within the primary beam of the second adjustable radiation pattern. For example after the handoff the secondary or auxiliary antenna can initiate a link with a third member of the satellite constellation e.g. as it rises above the horizon .

The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through one or more input interfaces. An input interface may include a touch sensitive screen or display surface or one or more switches or buttons with suitable input detection circuitry. A touch sensitive screen or display surface is illustrated as a touch sensitive display and screen input detector . One or more switches or buttons are illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a hardware button interface . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface or a physical hardware keyboard not shown . Output devices may include the display or a projector display .

In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker . Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are examples and other components and means of establishing communication links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information a camera capturing and saving an image or communicating with an implantable medical apparatus.

In certain instances one or more elements of the thin computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the thin computing device.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media. By way of further example and not of limitation computer readable media may include a communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer storage media is a non transitory computer readable media.

Communication media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media may include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media. Communication media is a transitory computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by the processor . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include at least one of a touch sensitive screen or display surface joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processor through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A display such as a monitor or other type of display device or surface may be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A projector display engine that includes a projecting element may be coupled to the system bus. In addition to the display the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN and may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the network through a network interface such as the network interface the modem or the wireless interface . The network may include a LAN network environment or a WAN network environment such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples and other means of establishing a communication link between the computers may be used.

In certain instances one or more elements of the computing device may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added to the computing device.

The antenna system includes a surface scattering antenna . The surface scattering antenna includes an electromagnetic waveguide structure and a plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements distributed along the waveguide structure. The wave scattering elements have an inter element spacing that is substantially less than a free space wavelength of a highest operating frequency of the surface scattering antenna. Each electromagnetic wave scattering element of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements has a respective activatable electromagnetic response to a guided wave propagating in the waveguide structure. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation pattern illustrated by a radiation pattern . In an embodiment the controllable radiation pattern includes a controllable gain pattern. In an embodiment a radiation pattern refers to a distribution of gain in an antenna. The antenna system includes antenna system components .

Returning to the components of the antenna system include an antenna controller configured to establish the defined radiation pattern in the surface scattering antenna by activating the respective electromagnetic response of selected electromagnetic wave scattering elements of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements . In an embodiment the activating the respective electromagnetic response of selected electromagnetic wave scattering elements may be considered as establishing a hologram corresponding to the defined radiation pattern. The components of the antenna system include a correction circuit configured to reduce an influence of the received possible interfering signal in a contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna .

In an embodiment the surface scattering antenna includes a surface scattering antenna having a thin or narrow planar dimension relative to a planar dimension of the associated antenna . For example a major planar dimension of the surface scattering antenna may be less than 20 of a major planar dimension of the associated antenna. In an embodiment the aperture of the surface scattering antenna is less than 50 of the aperture of the associated antenna. In an embodiment the aperture of the surface scattering antenna is less than 25 of the aperture of the associated antenna. In an embodiment the surface scattering antenna includes a surface scattering antenna configured to generate an adjustable or reconfigurable radiation pattern . In an embodiment the surface scattering antenna includes an omnidirectional or bidirectional surface scattering antenna. In an embodiment the surface scattering antenna includes a planar surface scattering antenna. In an embodiment the surface scattering antenna includes a non planar surface scattering antenna.

In an embodiment the electromagnetic wave scattering elements include discrete electromagnetic wave scattering elements. In an embodiment the electromagnetic wave scattering elements include electromagnetic wave scattering or radiating elements. In an embodiment the electromagnetic wave scattering elements include metamaterial wave scattering elements. In an embodiment the electromagnetic wave scattering elements include electromagnetic wave transmitting elements. In an embodiment the electromagnetic wave scattering elements include electromagnetic wave receiving elements. In an embodiment the electromagnetic wave scattering elements are exposed to a propagation path of the electromagnetic waveguide structure . In an embodiment the electromagnetic wave scattering elements include electromagnetic wave scattering elements respectively having at least two individually adjustable electromagnetic responses to a guided wave propagating in the waveguide structure. In an embodiment the inter element spacing of the electromagnetic scattering elements includes at least three electromagnetic scattering elements per the free space wavelength. In an embodiment the inter element spacing of the electromagnetic scattering elements includes at least five electromagnetic scattering elements per the free space wavelength.

In an embodiment the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are operable in combination to produce a dynamically controllable radiation pattern . In an embodiment the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are operable in combination to produce a variable radiation pattern providing localization on the possible interfering signal . In an embodiment the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation envelope. In an embodiment the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation pattern in response to a control signal.

In an embodiment the gain definition circuit includes a gain definition circuit configured to define an antenna radiation pattern with a field of view shaped to facilitate searching at least a portion of the undesired field of view of the associated antenna for the possible interfering signal . In an embodiment the gain definition circuit includes a gain definition circuit configured to define a series of antenna radiation patterns with fields of view shaped to facilitate searching at least a portion of the undesired field of view of the associated antenna for the possible interfering signal. In an embodiment the gain definition circuit includes a gain definition circuit configured to define an antenna radiation pattern with a field of view shaped to localize at least a portion of the undesired field of view of the associated antenna for the possible interfering signal. In an embodiment the gain definition circuit is further configured to instruct the antenna controller to implement the defined radiation pattern. In an embodiment the defined radiation pattern is selected based on trial and error. In an embodiment the defined radiation pattern is selected from a library of potential radiation patterns. In an embodiment the defined radiation pattern is selected from a history of radiation patterns previously established in the surface scattering antenna . In an embodiment the undesired field of view of the associated antenna includes a terrestrial or low altitude region. For example the undesired field of view may include a field of view below 20 degrees zenith. For example the undesired field of view may include below the earth s horizon. In an embodiment the undesired field of view of the associated antenna includes a field of view away from a source of a target signal. For example such as away from one or more orbiting objects such as the spaceborne sources and or away from a likely direction of a terrestrial target. In an embodiment the desired field of view of the associated antenna includes a skyward or hemispherical view. For example a skyward or hemispherical field of view may include a field of view likely to be occupied by an orbiting object a neighboring satellite in an intra satellite communication system or a likely direction of a terrestrial target. In an embodiment the desired field of view of the associated antenna includes a field of view that includes a source of the target signal.

In an embodiment the antenna controller is further configured to implement the defined radiation pattern . In an embodiment the antenna controller is configured to establish at least two radiation patterns in the surface scattering antenna by dynamically controlling the respective electromagnetic responses of the electromagnetic wave scattering elements of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements . In an embodiment the antenna controller is configured to establish the defined radiation pattern in the surface scattering antenna by applying a bias activating the respective electromagnetic response of the electromagnetic wave scattering elements of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. In an embodiment the bias includes a bias voltage bias field bias current or biasing mechanical inputs.

In an embodiment the correction circuit is further configured to detect the possible interfering signal . In an embodiment the associated antenna includes an associated skyward or hemispherically sensitive antenna configured to receive electromagnetic signals transmitted by an airborne or spaceborne source. For example an airborne or spaceborne source includes a source flying or orbing above the horizon of the earth.

In an embodiment the possible interfering signal includes a possible jamming signal. In an embodiment the possible interfering signal includes a possible spoofing signal. In an embodiment the possible interfering signal includes a possible malicious signal. In an embodiment the possible interfering signal includes a possible intentionally interfering signal. In an embodiment the possible interfering signal includes a possible unintentionally interfering signal.

In an embodiment the correction circuit is configured to cancel a component of the received possible interfering signal in the contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna . In an embodiment the gain definition circuit is further configured to maximize a received strength of the possible interfering signal by establishing the antenna radiation pattern in response to data received from the correction circuit. In an embodiment the correction circuit is configured to subtract the possible interfering signal from the contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna. In an embodiment the correction circuit includes a variable attenuator configured to adjust the signal strength of a received possible interfering signal and is configured to subtract or offset the possible interfering signal at the adjusted strength level from the contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna.

In an embodiment the correction circuit includes an adaptive correction circuit. In an embodiment the adaptive correction circuit is configured to determine phases and amplitudes of the received possible interfering signal and the contemporaneously received signal . The adaptive correction circuit is further configured to combine the possible interfering signal and the contemporaneously received signal to produce a reduction of an influence of the received possible interfering signal in the contemporaneously received signal. In an embodiment the adaptive correction circuit includes use of space time adaptive processing in reducing an influence of the received possible interfering signal in the contemporaneously received signal. In an embodiment the correction circuit includes a correction circuit configured to using a signal processing technique to reduce an influence of the received possible interfering signal in the contemporaneously received signal. For example the correction circuit may employ analog phase shifting and summing at the received frequency. For example the correction circuit may employ analog phase shifting and summing at a baseband or IF frequency. For example the correction circuit may employ A D conversion and digital combining.

In an embodiment the gain definition circuit is further configured to facilitate detection of the possible interfering signal by adaptively varying a radiation pattern of the surface scattering antenna to home in on the possible interfering signal. For example the homing in thereby producing a higher fidelity reception of the possible interfering signal for use in signal cancellation.

In an embodiment of the system a peripheral portion of the associated antenna includes the surface scattering antenna . In an embodiment the peripheral portion of the associated antenna includes an electromagnetic wave deflecting structure configured to direct an arriving electromagnetic wave into the defined radiation pattern of the surface scattering antenna. In an embodiment the wave deflecting structure includes a wave reflecting structure. In an embodiment the wave deflecting structure includes a lens structure. For example the lens structure may include a metamaterial lens structure. In an embodiment the wave deflecting structure includes a prism structure. For example the prism structure may include a metamaterial prism structure.

In an embodiment the system includes the associated antenna with the desired field of view . In an embodiment the surface scattering antenna is configured to be mounted on an airborne vehicle. For example an airborne vehicle may include a fixed or rotary winged aircraft. For example a fixed wing aircraft may include a drone. In an embodiment the surface scattering antenna is configured to be mounted on a missile. For example a missile may include a ground to ground missile an air to ground missile or a ballistic missile. In an embodiment the surface scattering antenna is configured to be mounted on a terrestrial vehicle. In an embodiment the system includes a space based satellite navigation system receiver . For example the receiver may include a GPS receiver.

In an embodiment the operation flow may include a second iteration operation. The second iteration operation includes reshaping the antenna radiation pattern established in the surface scattering antenna in response to an aspect of the received possible interfering signal. The second iteration operation includes receiving another instance of the possible interfering signal on the operating frequency of the another antenna with the reshaped antenna radiation pattern established in the surface scattering antenna. The second iteration operation may include the signal processing operation reducing an influence of the possible interfering signal in a contemporaneously received signal by the associated antenna based upon the received another instance of the possible interfering signal.

The antenna system includes an antenna assembly and components . The antenna assembly includes at least two surface scattering antenna segments which are illustrated as the surface scattering antenna segments A D. Each segment of the at least two surface scattering antenna segments includes a respective electromagnetic waveguide structure which are illustrated as waveguide structures A D and a respective plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements which are illustrated as a plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements A D. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements are distributed along the waveguide structure and have an inter element spacing substantially less than a free space wavelength of a highest operating frequency of the antenna segment. Each electromagnetic wave scattering element of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements has a respective activatable electromagnetic response to a guided wave propagating in their respective waveguide structure. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements of each antenna segment are operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation pattern which are illustrated as respective radiation patterns A D. Furthermore the at least two surface scattering antennas are operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation pattern. In an embodiment the at least two surface scattering antenna segments include at least two surface scattering antenna apertures.

For example in operation the gain definition circuit and the antenna controller are configured to initially look for a signal from a desired field of view illustrated as the signal from the spaceborne source . If in the course of receiving the signal from the desired field of view a possible malicious signal from a low zenith source illustrated as the signal from the possible interfering signal is also received the gain definition circuit and the antenna controller iteratively tune the fringes of the radiation pattern of at least one segment of the at least two segments A D to see what happens with the received lower zenith signal. For example the antenna controller may see what happens to the fringes on one or two segments are shifted in a direction by wavelength. The antenna controller looks to see if the combination of the signal strength of the undesired field of view is reduced or not. The antenna controller keeps iteratively tuning until an acceptably low or minimum combination of the signal strength of the undesired field of view results and then the receiver processes the combined signals.

In an embodiment the antenna assembly includes an at least substantially planar arrangement having the at least two antenna segments. In an embodiment the antenna assembly includes a conformal arrangement of the at least two antenna segments. For example the conformal arrangement may be configured to be mounted on or carried by an exterior surface of an aircraft or missile. In an embodiment the antenna assembly includes a first substantially planar antenna segment physically joined with a second substantially planar antenna segment. In an embodiment the aperture planes may be collinear or non collinear. In an embodiment the antenna assembly includes a first substantially planar antenna segment physically abutting or contiguous with a second substantially planar antenna segment. In an embodiment the antenna assembly includes a first antenna segment A optimized in area orientation or mounting for scattering to or receiving signals from a specific set or distribution of objects. For example the first antenna segment may be optimized for receiving a signal transmitted by a space based satellite navigation system. For example a second antenna segment B may be optimized with a relatively small aperture for a field of view that includes near zenith angles. In an embodiment a first segment of the at least two segments includes a receiving aperture that is larger than a receiving aperture of a second segment of the at least two segments. In an embodiment the receiving aperture of a first segment of the at least two segments and a receiving aperture of a second segment of the at least two segments are substantially equal.

In an embodiment the undesired field of view signal includes a possible interfering signal. In an embodiment the desired field of view signal includes a possible target or desired signal. In an embodiment the series of at least two radiation patterns is defined in advance.

In an embodiment the series of at least two radiation patterns is defined on the fly. In an embodiment the series of at least two radiation patterns is incrementally defined based on trial and error. In an embodiment the series of at least two radiation patterns is incrementally and adaptively defined based on trial and error. In an embodiment the series of the at least two radiation patterns is selected from a library of potential radiation patterns. In an embodiment the series of the at least two radiation patterns is selected randomly from radiation patterns implementable by the at least two antenna segments. In an embodiment the series of at least two radiation patterns is estimated or projected to facilitate the convergence. In an embodiment the radiation performance metric includes optimizing a combined signal strength received from the desired field of view and minimizing a combined signal strength from an undesired field of view. In an embodiment the radiation performance metric includes maximizing a combined signal strength received from a desired field of view and minimizing a combined signal strength received from a undesired field of view. In an embodiment the radiation performance metric includes a weighted combination of one or more antenna reception performance factors subject to at least one constraint. In an embodiment an antenna reception radiation performance factor includes an amplitude of the signal received from the desired field of view or an amplitude of the signal received from the undesired field of view. In an embodiment an antenna reception radiation performance factor includes antenna gain for one or more desired directions or angular regions or antenna gain for one or more undesired directions or angular regions. In an embodiment an antenna reception radiation performance factor includes signal to noise ratio signal to interference ratio signal to clutter ratio channel capacity data rate or error rate. In an embodiment the constraint of the antenna radiation performance metric includes a constraint on amplitude of the signal received from the desired field of view or on an amplitude of the signal received from the undesired field of view. In an embodiment the constraint of the antenna radiation performance metric includes a constraint on antenna gain for one or more desired directions or angular regions or antenna gain for one or more undesired directions or angular regions. In an embodiment the constraint of the antenna radiation performance metric includes a constraint on signal to noise ratio signal to interference ratio signal to clutter ratio channel capacity data rate or error rate. In an embodiment the optimized combined signal strength received from a desired field of view includes a combined desired field of view signal optimized for processing by the receiver circuit.

In an embodiment the gain definition circuit includes an adaptive gain definition circuit configured to define a second radiation pattern of the at least two radiation patterns responsive to a combined signal received from a desired field of view and a combined signal received from a undesired field of view with the at least two antenna segments configured in a first radiation pattern of the at least two radiation patterns. In an embodiment the series of at least two radiation patterns are defined to adjust an amplitude or phase of the undesired field of view signal received by a first antenna segment relative to an amplitude or phase of the undesired field of view signal received by a second antenna segment of the at least two segments of the antenna assembly in a manner predicted to minimize the combined signal received from the undesired field of view by the first segment and the second segment. For example the radiation patterns of the two individual segments are adjusted for the desired field of view signals to remain substantially in phase and for the undesired field of view signals to become substantially out of phase and self cancelling. In an embodiment the adaptive gain definition circuit is configured to define the second radiation pattern of the series of at least two radiation patterns by modifying a previously implemented first radiation pattern of the series of at least two radiation patterns. In an embodiment the adaptive gain definition circuit is configured to define the series of at least two respective radiation patterns in response to a library of at least three potential radiation patterns. In an embodiment the adaptive gain definition circuit is configured to define the series of at least two respective radiation patterns in response to a library of at least three potential radiation patterns and a parameter of the undesired field of view signal. In an embodiment the adaptive gain definition circuit is configured to define the series of at least two radiation patterns in response to a selection algorithm. In an embodiment the adaptive gain definition circuit is configured to make at least two successive iterations of defining the set of at least two respective radiation patterns during a course of facilitating a convergence on an optimized combined signal strength received from the desired field of view and a minimized combined signal strength received from the undesired field of view.

In an embodiment the series of at least two radiation patterns is defined to a adjust an amplitude or phase of the undesired field of view signal received by the first antenna segment relative to an amplitude or phase of the undesired field of view signal received by the second antenna segment of the at least two segments of the antenna assembly in a manner predicted to increase a degradation in the combined signals received from the undesired field of view by the first segment and the second segment and b adjust an amplitude or phase of the desired field of view signal received by a first antenna segment relative to an amplitude or phase of the desired field of view signal received by a second antenna segment of the at least two segments of the antenna assembly in a manner predicted to minimize any degradation in the combined signals received from the desired field of view by the first segment and the second segment. For example in an embodiment the amplitude or phase of the desired field of view signal source may be degraded less than 10 while the amplitude or phase of the undesired field of view may be degraded by at least about 50 . In an embodiment the series of at least two radiation patterns are defined to respectively adjust an amplitude or phase the desired field of view and of the undesired field of view signals received by the at least two segments of the antenna assembly in a manner predicted to minimize the combined signal received from the undesired field of view while substantially maintaining the combined signal received from the desired field of view. In an embodiment the adaptive gain definition circuit is configured to define a second radiation pattern of the series of at least two radiation patterns in response to an amplitude or phase of a received desired field of view signal with the antenna segments configured in a first radiation pattern of the series of at least two radiation patterns. For example the adaptive gain definition circuit may be configured to iteratively define the second radiation pattern. In an embodiment the adaptive gain definition circuit is configured to define a second radiation pattern of the series of at least two radiation patterns in response to an amplitude or phase of a received undesired field of view signal with the antenna segments configured in a first radiation pattern of the series of at least two radiation patterns. In an embodiment the adaptive gain definition circuit is configured to define a second radiation pattern of the series of at least two radiation patterns in response to an amplitude or phase of a received desired field of view signal and an amplitude or phase of a received undesired field of view signal both received with the antenna segments configured a first radiation pattern of the series of at least two radiation patterns.

In an embodiment the at least two surface scattering antenna segments for example segments C and D may be physically contiguous or non contiguous. For example the at least two surface scattering antenna segments may or may not share driver circuitry. For example the at least two surface scattering antenna segments are only required to be separate RF apertures.

In an embodiment the antenna assembly includes at least one respective electromagnetic waveguide structure for each segment of the at least two segments. For example the surface scattering antenna B includes a waveguide structure B and the surface scattering antenna C includes a waveguide structure C. In an embodiment the electromagnetic waveguide structure is configured to generate at least one beam. In an embodiment the components of the antenna system further includes a signal processing circuit configured to combine signals received from the at least two antenna segments and provide a cancellation of the signal from the undesired field of view. In an embodiment the signal processing circuit is further configured to combine signals received from two or more antenna segments for increased gain. In an embodiment the receiver includes a space based satellite navigation system receiver.

In an embodiment a radiation pattern includes a far field response pattern. For example a far field response pattern may include a gain response or a phase response. In an embodiment of the first gain characterization operation the first iteration radiation pattern and the another first iteration radiation pattern have an at least substantially similar far field response pattern. In an embodiment of the first gain characterization operation the first iteration radiation pattern and the another first iteration radiation pattern have a substantially dissimilar far field response pattern. For example a substantially dissimilar far field response pattern may include greater than a 20 dB gain difference at a point in the far field response pattern or greater than a 10 degree phase shift.

In an embodiment of the second gain characterization operation the second iteration radiation pattern and the first iteration radiation pattern have a substantially similar far field response pattern. In an embodiment of the second gain characterization operation the first iteration radiation pattern and the second iteration radiation pattern have a substantially dissimilar far field response pattern. In an embodiment of the second gain characterization operation the second iteration radiation pattern and the another second iteration radiation pattern have a substantially dissimilar far field response pattern. For example a substantially dissimilar far field response pattern may include greater than a 20 dB gain difference at a point in the far field response pattern or greater than a 10 degree phase shift. In an embodiment of the second gain characterization operation the aspect of the received desired field of view signal and the undesired field of view signal includes a direction of the desired field of view signal and a direction the undesired field of view signal relative to a plane formed by the first surface scattering antenna or the second surface scattering antenna. In an embodiment of the second gain characterization operation the aspect of the received desired field of view signal and the undesired field of view signal includes a phase of the desired field of view signal or a phase the undesired field of view signal.

The antenna assembly includes at least two surface scattering antenna segments. Each segment of the at least two surface scattering antenna segments respectively includes an electromagnetic waveguide structure and a plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements. The plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements distributed along the waveguide structure and having an inter element spacing substantially less than a free space wavelength of a highest operating frequency of the antenna segment. Each electromagnetic wave scattering element of the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements has a respective activatable electromagnetic response to a guided wave propagating in their respective waveguide structure the plurality of electromagnetic wave scattering elements operable in combination to produce a controllable radiation pattern.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety or to the extent their subject matter is not otherwise inconsistent herewith.

In some embodiments configured includes at least one of designed set up shaped implemented constructed or adapted for at least one of a particular purpose application or function.

It will be understood that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims are generally intended as open terms. For example the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to. For example the term having should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term has should be interpreted as having at least. For example the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of introductory phrases such as at least one or one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a receiver should typically be interpreted to mean at least one receiver the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited it will be recognized that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of at least two chambers or a plurality of chambers without other modifiers typically means at least two chambers .

In those instances where a phrase such as at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C or an item selected from the group consisting of A B and C is used in general such a construction is intended to be disjunctive e.g. any of these phrases would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together and may further include more than one of A B or C such as A A and C together A B B C and Ctogether or Band Btogether . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable or physically interacting components or wirelessly interactable or wirelessly interacting components.

With respect to the appended claims the recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Use of Start End Stop or the like blocks in the block diagrams is not intended to indicate a limitation on the beginning or end of any operations or functions in the diagram. Such flowcharts or diagrams may be incorporated into other flowcharts or diagrams where additional functions are performed before or after the functions shown in the diagrams of this application. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

