---

title: Systems and methods for take-out order analytics
abstract: Systems and methods for take-out order management and analysis. In an embodiment, for each of a plurality of restaurants, an interactive menu associated with the restaurant is provided to a plurality of users, a plurality of orders are received from the plurality of users, and the plurality of orders are sent to the restaurant. Order information related to the plurality of orders and the plurality of users is stored in at least one database, and analyzed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09105041&OS=09105041&RS=09105041
owner: RESTAURANT REVOLUTION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09105041
owner_city: Cardiff
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130124
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 467 969 filed May 9 2012 and entitled Systems and Methods for Managing Take Out Order Analytics which in turn claim priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 484 638 filed May 10 2011 and entitled Systems and Methods for Managing Take Out Orders all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety as if set forth in full.

The systems and methods disclosed herein relate generally to take out ordering management and particularly to systems and methods for improved management and profitability of take out ordering.

Conventionally if someone wishes to place a take out order at a restaurant that person can call the restaurant place the order with an employee stationed inside the restaurant and drive and pick up the order once it is ready. Take out ordering represents a large portion of the restaurant industry in terms of dollars. For example in 2010 the restaurant industry did approximately six hundred 600 billion dollars in revenue of which twelve percent 12 or roughly seventy two 72 billion dollars was from take out ordering. Moreover there was a ten percent 10 growth in this segment in 2010. Accordingly take out ordering represents a significant and important component of the overall restaurant industry.

Unfortunately this segment is typically managed in such a way as to actually diminish the potential revenue gains that can be achieved. For example most restaurants do not have a dedicated system or staff for handling take out orders. As a result whichever employee is handling a customer s call is likely being distracted from his or her normal job. Moreover the restaurant can often be busy noisy etc. which hinders communication of the take out order between the customer and restaurant employee. Furthermore the configuration and capabilities of the order entry and telephony technology within a restaurant are typically not up to standard for order taking activities. This can result in a difficult or unsatisfying ordering experience incorrect orders long hold times dropped calls and the like. In fact ninety percent 90 of all take out orders arrive incorrectly. This can result in unhappy and even lost customers. Moreover the employee is must less likely to try and up sell the customer further reducing the potential revenue and profitability of the take out segment.

Accordingly systems and methods are disclosed to facilitate and improve the take out ordering process and for analyzing order information for improving customers experiences. In an embodiment a system for take out order management and analysis is disclosed. The system comprises at least one executable software module that when executed by at least one hardware processor for each of a plurality of restaurants provides an interactive menu associated with the restaurant to a plurality of users receives a plurality of orders from the plurality of users and sends the plurality of orders to the restaurant stores order information related to the plurality of orders and the plurality of users in at least one database and analyzes the order information.

In another embodiment a method for take out order management and analysis is disclosed. The method comprises for each of a plurality of restaurants providing an interactive menu associated with the restaurant to a plurality of users receiving a plurality of orders from the plurality of users and sending the plurality of orders to the restaurant storing order information related to the plurality of orders and the plurality of users in at least one database and analyzing the order information.

It should be understood that the embodiments described herein are by way of example only and are not intended to limit the embodiments or implementations of any aspect of the invention including architectures and process flows.

A customer service representative CSR at call center will receive the call from customer and process the customer s order using or with the assistance of an order management module . The order management module may be a software application residing on a computer system that is either local to the CSR e.g. desktop or workstation or remote from the CSR. In an embodiment the order management module may be remote from the call center as well. In such an embodiment order management module may reside on a remote server and be accessed by the CSR via at least one network using software on a desktop workstation or other computing device that is local to the CSR. For example the remote server may comprise a web server which serves a user interface e.g. web pages in Hypertext Markup Language HTML to the CSR over a network e.g. the Internet via a standard web browser executing on the CSR s device. Alternatively or additionally the remote server may comprise a web service which serves data to a client application installed on the CSR s device using for example Extensible Markup Language XML . It should be understood that call center can be interfaced with a local or remote system comprising a plurality of modules and functions of which the order management module can be but one which allows the CSRs to manage the process of take out ordering and which interfaces with the POS systems of one or more restaurants. This allows restaurants and companies to manager their menus and process flows generate reports and the like.

The order is sent by the CSR or by the order management module to the associated restaurant s Point of Sale POS system such that the order can be placed and the bill generated within the restaurant s system. The order may be sent over the Internet or other network using standard protocols. The POS system may be integrated with the kitchen for order fulfillment. In step the customer picks up the order from the restaurant.

In this manner the take out ordering process may be removed from the restaurant and its employees. This alone can significantly reduce problems and increase revenue by eliminating distractions hold times dropped calls and other problems that lead to bad customer experiences and or lost revenue. In addition the CSRs can be fully trained on the menus specials preferences of customers trends and the like such that they can actually enhance the customer experience and increase sales through up selling offering suggestions making the customer aware of special offers and the like. As a result the process illustrated in can enhance revenue derived from the take out ordering process.

In an alternative or additional embodiment online or mobile ordering can be supported. In such an embodiment the customer can interface with the order management module or similar module directly instead of through a CSR. The module may comprise or communicate or interface with a web based or mobile application based user interface. Using an application on a desktop laptop tablet smart phone or other non mobile or mobile personal computing device a customer can input an order into a graphical user interface provided by the module. For example the application may be a conventional browser and the order management module or other module can serve web pages over the Internet or other network to the customer s device. The module may be able to serve different web pages depending on the destination e.g. call center non mobile device or mobile device . The web pages may comprise selectable menu options and or input fields into which a customer can enter order information. The web pages or other graphical user interface may also comprise up sells suggestions special offers and the like which are displayed or offered during one or more stages of the order entry process.

The customer may then submit the order information for example by posting the information over the Internet or other network to a servlet of a web server on a remote server or servers e.g. the same servers hosting the order management module . Once the order has been submitted the process may proceed as discussed above wherein the order management module or other module sends the order information to the associated restaurant s POS system .

Order management authority can be interfaced with or include a plurality of functional modules that may be configured to manage various processes and information. Authority can also be interfaced with or include one or more databases which can store and provide data information instructions and the like for authority . Authority can also be interfaced with one or more restaurant POS systems . Users such as administrators CSRs and or customers may access authority using a terminal which is connected to authority either directly or via a network which may comprise one or more intranets virtual private networks VPNs and or the Internet including the World Wide Web . Authority can also be interfaced with or can host a social networking site.

As used herein the term company refers to a corporate entity such as a restaurant for which take out orders are managed. The term restaurant refers to a specific location of a particular restaurant owned by a company. Customer refers to a customer of a company or restaurant. Client refers to a company or restaurant which utilizes the disclosed systems and processes.

In order to facilitate administration of the system an administrator module or modules can be provided. Different types of login can be provided including without limitation administration login company login and CSR login. Administration login provides access for administrators e.g. call center administrators software administrators etc. of the overall order management authority. One Uniform Resource Locator URL can be provided e.g. www.yourOMA.com admin . When an administrator logs in through the administration login he or she may be able to see all companies and restaurants which are clients of the order management authority. The administrator may also have access to all or a subset of the software databases and or database records of the authority.

Using the administration module the administrator can add and remove companies and set up a company profile database. For instance illustrates a graphical user interface for managing company profiles according to an embodiment. The user interface can allow an administrator to view and edit company information including without limitation company name s corporate address corporate telephone and fax numbers corporate contact person and contact information corporate website corporate logo and the like.

The administrator can also set up login credentials for company administrators. Call center administrators may be permitted to set up user login s for each company or restaurant for which the call center will be answering calls. It should be understood that administrators can be given different roles and or permissions and have access to different subsets of resources e.g. companies restaurants databases etc. as defined by those roles and or permissions. illustrates a graphical user interface for managing roles and permissions according to an embodiment. An administrator can add and remove administrators and assign preset administrative levels to the administrators or create new administrative levels. The preset or custom administrative levels can comprise sets of permissions such as access permissions to specific modules of the order management authority.

Company login provides access for company specific or restaurant specific administrators. For example each company or restaurant location may have an administrator who is charged with configuring company specific or restaurant specific settings. One URL can be provided for all company and restaurant logins e.g. www.yourOMA.com company or yourOMA.company.com . Company administrators can set up logins for specific restaurant personnel or other company employees. Company login provides access to the software databases and or database records which are specific to the company or restaurant.

CSR login provides access for CSRs. Access can be granted to CSRs for a specific restaurant restaurant group different restaurants etc. As with the other login types one URL can be provided for CSR logins e.g. www.yourOMA.com company or yourOMA.company.com . In an embodiment administration login and company login provides access to all software modules whereas CSR login only provides access to the new order and order management modules only.

In an embodiment when an administrator is logged in he or she can be presented with a graphical user interface comprising a header display with image icons or text links to available software modules. As discussed above the software modules may comprise order manager restaurant manager new order company manager menu manager and or report manager modules.

The order management module can provide a graphical user interface to facilitate order management. The graphical user interface may comprise a row or grid layout or other layout displaying fields for one or more take out orders. Each order may correspond to one row and each row may comprise one or more fields including without limitation one or more of the following fields 

In an embodiment as an order progresses through the ordering process each row can indicate the step of the process in which it is in for example using color coding or other indications. For example each step or status can correspond to a different color or other indication. Such steps or status can include without limitation one or more of the following 

In an embodiment the list of orders can be filtered. The system can be national and CSRs can handle different time zones restaurant groups cites states etc. Thus the company administrator and or call center administrator may be permitted to set the view of orders for each CSR. For example checkboxes and or drop down menus can be provided and selected by the administrators. These inputs can specify and activate filters including without limitation all orders today orders tomorrow advanced orders by restaurant by city and or by state.

The user interface of the order management module can provide action buttons or other inputs to facilitate management of the list of orders. These inputs can include without limitation one or more of the following 

The order management authority can handle faxing. Alternatively a third party can handle the faxing and the order management authority can interface with the third party via an application programming interface API . Orders can be faxed to a restaurant using a fax number which can be set in the restaurant manager module . In an embodiment fax commands can return an error message if the fax was not sent or received properly. The error message may comprise a reason why the fax was not properly sent or received.

The restaurant management module facilitates the management of restaurants which utilize the order management authority for take out order processing. For example an administrator can use the restaurant management module to add delete or otherwise modify restaurants in the system and or information associated with the restaurants in the system.

In an embodiment the restaurant management module can enable an administrator to set information such as hours geographical zones fees taxes and the like for each restaurant. For instance illustrates an example graphical user interface according to an embodiment through which an administrator can set daily open and close hours for breakfast lunch and dinner.

Additionally or alternatively fees can be associated with a payment method. For example illustrates a graphical user interface through which an administrator can select one or more payment methods to which a fee should apply as well as the percentage or dollar amount of the fee and whether sales tax should be calculated on the fee.

In an embodiment sending rules can be set for specific restaurant locations. The sending rules can be set up prior to order management and selected for each restaurant via an input e.g. radio buttons associated with each restaurant in a user interface of the restaurant management module . For example the sending rules may comprise without limitation one or more of the following 

Thus two methods i.e. automatic or manual can be used to send orders to restaurants. The automatic method is determined by the business rules set for and or by each restaurant. The manual method is determined by a user interaction with the user interface of the order management module . It should be understood that the actual transmission of the order from the order management module or other module to the restaurant can be the same in both methods. For example messages comprising the order information e.g. in XML or other format may be queued and then sent by a network interface of the order management authority.

Automatic orders which fail because of connection errors with the restaurant s POS system or other errors can be flagged e.g. highlighted or otherwise distinguished from non failed orders by the order management module . In the event of a failure the order can be automatically re sent e.g. 3 times per minute . If the failure persists after a certain period of time or a certain number of attempts to re send the order the order can be removed from the message queue. In this case the order may need to be manually sent by a user of the order management module .

In addition to sending rules business rules can also be set for each restaurant or group of restaurants. If any of the business rules are not met with respect to a particular order the order can be flagged in a user interface of the order management module . For example the business rules may comprise without limitation one or more of the following 

The new order entry module enables entry of an order by a CSR and or by a customer directly e.g. via a user interface of a web page . In an embodiment online or mobile ordering is performed through a separate module than call center ordering.

In embodiments in which a CSR operates the new order entry module to take an order from a customer for example over the phone the module may give the CSR an option to search for customer information. For example the CSR may be able to search for a customer using one or more of a phone number first name last name and or company name. If the correct customer is returned by the search the CSR can select to begin the food order. Otherwise if the correct customer or no information is returned by the search the CSR can select to add a new customer.

If the CSR selects to add a new customer the CSR can be prompted by the new order entry module for customer information including without limitation customer type first name last name company motel hotel guest name hotel guest room number address suite floor room city state Zip Code telephone number email address mobile phone number order type choice building name and or a pharmaceutical representative checkbox. Customer type can comprise for instance residential business hotel motel catering and or pharmaceutical representative. Furthermore the exact combination of customer information inputs presented to the CSR via the user interface may depend on the selected customer type. In other words different fields may be requested for different customer types.

Once a customer has been selected or entered a list of restaurant locations can be displayed by the user interface to the CSR. The list of locations can be derived by the new order entry module based on the customer s address. The CSR may select a restaurant from the list. The user interface may also comprise a map e.g. using Google Maps which shows the location of each restaurant in the list and or the selected restaurant. The user interface may also provide textual and or graphical directions from the customer s address to the restaurant s location. The user interface can also display which order type services e.g. pick up curbside delivery etc. are offered by each of the restaurants in the list. Once all order information has been entered the CSR can select to send the order to the restaurant e.g. to the restaurant s POS system for fulfillment.

In embodiments in which the new order entry module comprises online ordering functionality a wizard like series of screens can be presented directly to customers. For example this can be implemented via web pages e.g. ASP web pages which the customer is able to retrieve and view using a standard browser executed on a computing device. One or more web page of a website may be provided to the customer which allows the customer to find the closest restaurant location e.g. using a street address cross streets city state Zip Code etc. register with the website to obtain credentials e.g. username email address and password for logging in to the website log in to the website and or view a corporate menu. The customer may also be permitted to search for restaurant locations based on order type e.g. pick up curbside delivery etc. .

A list of restaurants meeting the criteria input by the customer e.g. address order type etc. can be displayed. For example the list may comprise the restaurants geographically closest to the customer s specified address which offer an order type selected by the customer. If the order type is delivery only one or two restaurant locations may be displayed based on their Zip Codes and other geographical settings set forth in a geography management module.

The list may comprise information for each restaurant and or a link to information for each restaurant. The information may comprise the address and telephone number for the restaurant as well as a link to view the restaurant s menu e.g. as a PDF file . The information may also comprise driving directions e.g. via Google Maps MapQuest etc. . The information may also comprise a button or link that when activated initiates order processing e.g. an Order Now button .

Placement of an order by a customer can follow the same logic as an order entered by a CSR. A user interface comprising one or more screens e.g. multiple screens presented in succession can be presented to the customer e.g. via dynamic or static web pages of a website . The user interface may comprise multiple inputs for selecting menu items and the time and date for pick up of an order. If different menus are available at different times of day e.g. breakfast lunch and dinner menus the particular menu presented to the customer may be based on the entered or selected pick up time. The customer may also have the option to select from a particular menu e.g. catering menu happy hour menu specials menu etc. .

For example illustrates an example menu screen which may be provided to a CSR or customer. In the illustrated example the user can select the type of menu i.e. regular or catering . Furthermore for each menu the user can select from a plurality of categories or screens such as Appetizers Soups Salads and the like.

The user can then select a menu item. As illustrated in a graphical user interface can be provided which provides the user with information about the menu item such as ingredients allergens and the like. This information may be added through the menu management module . Inputs can be provided for entering a quantity of the menu item to be purchased selecting available options comments and the like. As a user adds menu items to the order the order details can be shown and updated in a section of the user interface including on all menu screens. This interface can also be used to up sell the customer for example by offering side dishes which may be added and or suggesting food pairings or other menu items which the customer may enjoy. illustrates an alternative interface to the one shown in where up sell items are shown and associated with inputs which enable the user to add the items to the order.

After a customer has entered his or her order the customer may be prompted to either log in or register with the order management authority or other system interfaced with the order management authority. If a customer registers with the authority the authority generates a user profile associated with the customer. The profile comprises customer information input by the customer during the registration process such as name credentials for authentication e.g. username email and password contact information billing information customer type e.g. residential business catering hotel motel pharmaceutical representative and the like. Alternatively or additionally the customer may be permitted to submit the order without registering or establishing a profile with the system.

The customer may be prompted to choose or input a payment method prior to submitting the order for fulfillment. For example the user interface may comprise an input through which the user can choose to pay by credit card debit card gift certificate at pick up etc. If the user chooses to pay for the order online the user interface may also comprise inputs for entering payment information e.g. credit card number expiration date billing address etc. . illustrates an example graphical user interface according to an embodiment through which the user can specify a pick up time including advanced pick up times payment type e.g. cash credit card check house account gift card etc. and payment information.

Prior to submitting the order the user interface may prompt the customer to confirm the order. For example a screen may be provided which shows the complete order information and a button or link to confirm the order as demonstrated in . The screen or any prior screen e.g. payment method screen prior to payment method screen etc. may also present up sell opportunities. For example the screen may present the user with additional selectable menu items e.g. desserts sides beverages etc. which he or she can add to the order as illustrated in . The screen may also comprise selectable promotions offered by the restaurant to qualified customers. These up sell and promotional selections may be designated by the restaurant or company for example through the menu management module .

Once the customer confirms the order for example by clicking a button or link to process the order the order is sent to the restaurant. The order may be sent to a POS system of the restaurant for entry into the restaurant s internal management system. The order information may be sent using XML or other format. A confirmation screen can be displayed to the user and or an email confirmation which may comprise order information can also be sent to the customer s email address. illustrates example confirmation content which may be included in a web page or email according to an embodiment. As illustrated the confirmation can include the order type restaurant information including links to the restaurant s website and or directions to the restaurant the date of the order order details and or a link to order details the name of the customer customer information payment information the cost of the order and the like.

In an embodiment if a customer registers with the order management authority or other system interfaced with the order management authority at least a portion of the customer s past order history can be stored. When a user logs in to the system he or she may be given an option to select a past order to be repeated as a current order or as a template for a current order. In this manner the ordering process can be made faster and more efficient for repeat customers.

The order management authority may also comprise a delivery management module. If a restaurant location supports delivery the user interface of the new order entry module may also include an input for entering a delivery address.

The delivery management module can include a driver management module which manages available delivery drivers. For each such driver the driver management module may receive store and manage fields such as name address telephone number e.g. home mobile pager etc. Social Security number or Employee Identification Number EIN insurance information vehicle information delivery fee tip amount gas allowance dispatch name and or commission rate.

The delivery management module may generate reports for each driver s delivery day. The module may also allow a driver to be checked in to the system at the beginning of his or her shift and receive the geographical zone that the driver is in. At the end of a driver s shift the driver can be checked out of the system and the module can calculate how much should be collected for the driver s delivery orders.

The menu management module facilitates management of the take out ordering menu of a restaurant. In an embodiment the module imports menu information from a POS server hosted at or for each restaurant or at a central location which serves multiple restaurant locations. This importation may occur over at least one network including for example the Internet and all communications may be encrypted e.g. using SSL . In an embodiment the menu information is continuously or periodically synchronized with the POS system of each restaurant utilizing the order management authority. The synchronization can be performed automatically or manually e.g. in response to an administrator interaction with the menu management module or other module . It should be noted that the synchronization between module and the POS system may be one way in the sense that menu information stored in the order management authority is updated in response to modifications to menu information in the POS system but menu information in the POS system is not updated in response to modifications to menu information in the order management authority e.g. using menu management module . For example changes to items prices screens modifier groups and the like are periodically extracted by the order management authority and may be pushed to web servers which dynamically generate web pages such that changes in the menu data on the restaurant POS system are quickly reflected in the menus presented to CSRs and customers. In addition new items which are added to the restaurant POS system are quickly available for arrangement and modification in the menu management module. Logs and reports can be maintained and utilized to identify changes in the menu data for review by administrators.

When menu data is imported from the POS system the menu items may be structured in a particular arrangement and or on a particular set of screens. In an embodiment by default this structure is initially maintained in the order management authority . In other words the view of the menu including its structure arrangement and menu items that a CSR or customer would see e.g. by interacting with the new order entry module may initially be the same as the view that restaurant personnel would see when interacting with the restaurant s POS system.

In an embodiment the menu management module provides a user interface which enables administrators to perform adjustments to the menu data. For example in step inputs may be provided which enable the administrator to add menu items change the names of menu items and modify or add descriptions to the menu items. Furthermore additional information may be added to a menu item such as ingredient information nutritional information and allergen information. In addition one or more images may be added for each menu item. These adjustments may be subject to certain controls. For instance in an embodiment system identifiers prices and modifier group assignments cannot be changed.

In an embodiment the menu management module also provides a user interface which enables administrators to manage properties that control how menu items are displayed by a graphical user interface of the order management authority e.g. by the new order entry module . For example in step an administrator may add or remove screens from a user interface that is to be presented to CSRs and or customers e.g. by the new order entry module as well as add or remove menu items and menu options to or from those screens. For instance the menu data imported from the POS system may comprise a new salad item on a salad menu screen. Since the POS system is a management tool rather than a marketing tool it would likely not comprise a new menu items screen. Thus an administrator can create a new menu items screen and add the new salad as well as other new menu items to the screen.

In addition different menu screens can be presented based on an order channel. In an embodiment the order channels may comprise a call center channel an online channel and or a mobile channel. A module of the order management authority which receives orders such as the new order entry module can determine through which channel the order is being received. If the source of the order request is from a call center the call center specific menu screens can be returned. Similarly if the order request is received through a website online specific menu screens can be returned and if the order request is received from a mobile device mobile specific menu screens can be returned. In an embodiment the online specific menu screens are formatted for standard browsers whereas the mobile specific menu screens are formatted for mobile browsers. In this manner menu items which may not be applicable to a particular order channel can be removed from the menu screens used in that channel e.g. raw fish items can be removed from take out order channels .

In an embodiment the menu management module allows an administrator to sort the order of menu items as displayed to CSRs or customers. For example the administrator may sort the menu items such that popular or high margin menu items are at the top of the menu screens.

The menu data imported from the POS system and adjusted and or supplemented by an administrator as discussed above are stored in order management authority . For example the menu data can be stored in database s .

In an embodiment menus served to CSRs and or customers are populated dynamically at the time that the menu is served e.g. from the menu data in database s . For example in embodiments which serve the menus via web pages the menus can be served in dynamically generated web pages using Active Server Pages ASP or other dynamic web page generation technology e.g. JavaServer Pages . In such an embodiment a static page comprising the menu can also be available to be served by a web server of the order management authority in the event that the menu cannot be served dynamically for instance due to a connection failure or other error of the menu management module database or other component of the order management authority or the restaurant POS system from which the menu information is imported. The static page can be updated periodically during normal operation of the order management authority.

In an embodiment the menu management module allows a company or restaurant administrator to add specials to the restaurant menu. These specials can be promoted during order entry and processing.

The report management module can generate reports related to usage of the order management authority. The module can include an export function which exports ordering information and metrics to a file in one or multiple formats including without limitation comma delimited CSV and or spreadsheet e.g. Microsoft Excel formats. The report management module can also generate reports. The reports can be displayed e.g. in a web page inserted as the body of an email and emailed and or stored as a file in Portable Document Format PDF or other format for printing or attachment to an email. By way of illustration and not limitation the report management module can be implemented to generate one or more of the following reports 

As the CSR inputs order information the CSR can be presented with up selling options special deals and the like. For example there may be a special on an appetizer or the CSR can be prompted to ask the customer if they would like to add an appetizer or dessert to their order. In step these offers are communicated by the CSR to the customer. In step the entire order can be confirmed. In an embodiment the CSR can be prompted again in step with respect to up selling for example if a dessert or beverage has not been previously offered. In step the entire order can be sent to the restaurant e.g. to its POS system .

In an alternative or additional embodiment the order and options are input directly by the customer into a graphical user interface e.g. provided by a web server or other application and transmitted over a network such as the Internet to an order management module or other module or servlet. In this embodiment instead of receiving a call in step the order management authority e.g. a web server of the authority receives a request for the menu information or a graphical user interface e.g. one or more web pages comprising selectable menu information. In steps and the customer enters or selects menu items and options using inputs e.g. drop downs checkboxes text boxes text areas radio buttons links etc. of the graphical user interface.

As the customer is entering order information up sells promotions or other offers may be presented to the user via the graphical user interface e.g. in separate screens sections pop ups frames etc. of the interface . Up selling may be attempted at step step or both steps and . In step the customer is prompted to confirm the order for example using a button or link on a screen comprising the received order and options information. In step the order is submitted to the order management authority e.g. using a POST request supported by the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP after which the order information may be transmitted to the restaurant.

In an embodiment the order management authority can be interfaced with or host a social networking site or community. Since in certain embodiments authority will have information related to specific customers ordering histories habits preferences and the like this information can be stored and made available to customers via the social networking site. The customers can access the social network to review the histories preferences etc. of themselves as well as others in their social network. Customers can share all or portions of their order information with the social network or other customers. This shared information may be aggregated to determine the most ordered item determine the most popular restaurant and or restaurant location rate restaurants and or menu items make recommendations share experiences and the like.

In an embodiment order management authority can provide customers with the ability to create and or modify profiles preferences or both. This information can be used for example to influence up selling recommendations and menu options presented to the customer e.g. directly or via a CSR . All of this information and user interactions can be stored by system .

In fact in certain embodiments order management authority or algorithms interfaced with or running on authority can be configured to mine the data stored in databases related to customer orders selections histories times and the like in order to determine various information or metrics that can be used by system to improve the experience of dining customers. For example authority can be configured to determine which menu items sell well and which do not whether there is a temporal or geographic correlation with what sells and when which up sell suggestions work and which do not which side order suggestions work and which do not etc. This information can then be made available to clients of the order management system either free of charge or for a fee. The clients may use this information to update menus and order flows. In certain embodiments the updates are partially or wholly automated. Order management authority can also use the information to offer discounts coupons specials and the like that are targeted to a specific user thereby increasing the chance that the user will take advantage of the offer.

In an embodiment the social network can be interfaced with other accounts belonging to customers e.g. Twitter Facebook etc. and capable of extracting information from these accounts. Data mining algorithms can include these accounts to further enhance the available information. Furthermore various applications APIs portals and the like can be used to gather information not only from customers of the authority but also from their contacts e.g. family friends acquaintances etc. and interactions with other websites which the customers visits and or with which the customer has an account. Using this information as a resource enables rapid growth dramatic expansion of services and strong profitability for example through highly targeted consumer offers paid advertising programs effective use of partnering strategies with other companies and rapid evolution o core business models to adopt emerging technologies and leverage company infrastructures and competencies.

In an embodiment the order management authority can also be configured to offer other services such as reservation services delivery services and discount services such as daily deals flash sales location based specials loyalty programs exclusive offers review programs local recommendations cooking and recipe sites or functions food entertainment programming and content etc. Not only can this create an integrated dining environment but all of the information gathered through these programs can also be integrated and used by the system and the algorithms described above.

In an embodiment the order management authority can support group orders. illustrate graphical user interfaces which enable a customer to create a group order. The graphical user interfaces can be provided by order management authority e.g. in a webpage or can be provided by a client application executed on a customer s device e.g. a mobile application on a mobile device . A customer can use the systems and methods disclosed above to add menu items to a group order after which the customer may be shown a screen such as the one in . The screen displays details about the order such as the restaurant date and time for pick up or delivery an order cut off time after which no more people may join the order an invitation link which provides a link for an individual who wishes to add to the order and or an order total. The customer may also specify a per person dollar limit a payment distribution pay for all items together or each person pays for his or her own food etc. and or a payment method e.g. cash credit card etc. as shown in . In an embodiment demonstrated in the customer may also enter a message to be included in the invitation to the invitees.

In addition the user interface provides an input or link for the customer to invite contacts to join the order and lists the contacts which the customer has added to the invitation list. If a customer chooses to add an invitee the customer may be provided inputs for entering contact information e.g. name email address etc. and or a list of contacts can be pulled from an address book or other contact list. The contact list may be provided by order management authority or may be pulled from a third party site such as an external social network e.g. Facebook or email application or site e.g. Gmail Yahoo Mail etc. . The address book or contact list may be pulled from a third party site using an API e.g. Facebook Connect . Once the customer has selected all desired invitees the customer may submit the group order at which time invitations e.g. emails to join the group order may be sent to each of the invitees. An order confirmation can be displayed to the customer as illustrated in .

If an invitee follows the link e.g. URL provided in the invitation shown in he or she may be taken to a user interface which includes inputs for joining the order. For instance the invitee may be able to select menu items and options. The invitee may also be required to provide personal information like his or her name and email address as shown in . This information may be pre populated based on parameters supplied in the query or parameter string of the link that was provided to the invitee in the invitation. In an embodiment the invitee may be required to log in to or register with the order management authority prior to joining a group order. As shown in the members of the group order may be allowed to subsequently amend their orders by logging in to order management authority . However in an embodiment the order may no longer be amended following a specified cut off time.

Order management authority can be used as an engine to drive advertising revenues. For example the authority can employ banner advertisements on a portal site customized restaurant specific offers to targeted consumers sponsored results in a restaurant search feature fees for email and text marketing of special deals offered by specific restaurant brands to customers and fees or participation revenue for chains to participate in daily deal or loyalty programs.

The system preferably includes one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor .

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the system . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

System preferably includes a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor such as one or more of the modules described above. The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include a internal memory and or a removable medium for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive etc. The removable medium is read from and or written to in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD SD card etc.

The removable storage medium is a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data. The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the system for execution by the processor .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the system . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage media and communication interface which allow software and data to be transferred from an external medium to the system .

System may also include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between system and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to system from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a modem a network interface card NIC a wireless data card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card an infrared interface and an IEEE 1394 fire wire just to name a few.

Communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals are preferably provided to communication interface via a communication channel . In one embodiment the communication channel may be a wired or wireless network or any variety of other communication links. Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any non transitory computer readable storage media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the system . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including internal memory removable medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These non transitory computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the system .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into the system by way of removable medium I O interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the system in the form of electrical communication signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

The system also includes optional wireless communication components that facilitate wireless communication over a voice and over a data network. The wireless communication components comprise an antenna system a radio system and a baseband system . In the system radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system may comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system may comprise one or more radios that are configured to communicate over various frequencies. In one embodiment the radio system may combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information then baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to a speaker. The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from a microphone. These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and may pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the antenna system where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the processor . The central processing unit has access to data storage areas and . The central processing unit is preferably configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the memory or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the data storage area or in secondary memory or executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described. For example data storage areas may include various software modules not shown that were previously described with respect to .

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent certain embodiments of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly not limited.

