---

title: Channel state information reference signal (CSI-RS) configuration and CSI reporting restrictions
abstract: A method of wireless communication includes determining a capability for a number of channel state information configurations supported by a user equipment (UE). The channel state information processes link a channel measurement report with an interference measurement report. The UE transmits the capability to an eNodeB. Additionally, the UE receives CSI process configurations. The CSI process configurations identify CSI processes that can be requested by the eNodeB.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09155098&OS=09155098&RS=09155098
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09155098
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130314
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 617 613 entitled CSI RS CONFIGURATION AND CSI REPORTING RESTRICTIONS TO INCREASE PROCESSING TIME FOR FEEDBACK REPORTING filed on Mar. 29 2012 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 637 683 entitled CHANNEL STATE INFORMATION REFERENCE SIGNAL CSI RS CONFIGURATION AND CSI REPORTING RESTRICTIONS filed on Apr. 24 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 679 646 entitled CHANNEL STATE INFORMATION REFERENCE SIGNAL CSI RS CONFIGURATION AND CSI REPORTING RESTRICTIONS filed on Aug. 3 2012 the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to wireless communication systems and more particularly to configuring channel state information reference signal CSI RS reporting configurations to reduce CSI re computations.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various telecommunication services such as telephony video data messaging and broadcasts. Typical wireless communication systems may employ multiple access technologies capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . Examples of such multiple access technologies include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems single carrier frequency divisional multiple access SC FDMA systems and time division synchronous code division multiple access TD SCDMA systems.

These multiple access technologies have been adopted in various telecommunication standards to provide a common protocol that enables different wireless devices to communicate on a municipal national regional and even global level. An example of an emerging telecommunication standard is Long Term Evolution LTE . LTE is a set of enhancements to the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS mobile standard promulgated by Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . It is designed to better support mobile broadband Internet access by improving spectral efficiency lower costs improve services make use of new spectrum and better integrate with other open standards using OFDMA on the downlink DL SC FDMA on the uplink UL and multiple input multiple output MIMO antenna technology. However as the demand for mobile broadband access continues to increase there exists a need for further improvements in LTE technology. Preferably these improvements should be applicable to other multi access technologies and the telecommunication standards that employ these technologies.

This has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present disclosure in order that the detailed description that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be described below. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that this disclosure may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present disclosure. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the teachings of the disclosure as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the disclosure both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present disclosure.

Receiving channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources may trigger the re computation of channel state information CSI for the purposes of CSI reporting. The number of CSI re computations may be reduced by limiting the number of CSI processes based on the UE s capability. Additionally the number of CSI re computations may be reduced by permitting the use of outdated CSI measurements.

In one aspect of the present disclosure a method of wireless communication is disclosed. The method includes determining a UE capability corresponding to a maximum number of supported CSI processes. The method also includes transmitting the UE capability to an eNodeB. The method further includes receiving multiple CSI process configurations. The CSI process configurations identify CSI processes that can be requested by the eNodeB.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a computer program product for wireless communications in a wireless network having a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed. The computer readable medium has non transitory program code recorded thereon which when executed by the processor s causes the processor s to perform operations of determining a UE capability corresponding to a maximum number of supported CSI processes. The program code also causes the processor s to transmit the UE capability to an eNodeB. The program code further causes the processor s to receive CSI process configurations. The CSI process configurations identify CSI processes that can be requested by the eNodeB.

Another aspect of the present disclosure discloses wireless communication having a memory and at least one processor coupled to the memory. The processor s is configured to determine a UE capability corresponding to a maximum number of supported CSI processes. The processor s is also configured to transmit the UE capability to an eNodeB. The processor s is further configured to receive CSI process configurations. The CSI process configurations identify CSI processes that can be requested by the eNodeB.

In one aspect of the present disclosure a method of wireless communication is disclosed. The method includes receiving a capability for a number of supported channel state information configurations. The method also includes transmitting CSI process configurations. The CSI process configurations identify CSI processes that can be requested by the eNodeB.

Another aspect of the present disclosure discloses an apparatus including means for receiving a capability for a number of supported channel state information configurations. The apparatus also includes means for transmitting CSI process configurations. The CSI process configurations identify CSI processes that can be requested by the eNodeB.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a computer program product for wireless communications in a wireless network having a non transitory computer readable medium is disclosed. The computer readable medium has non transitory program code recorded thereon which when executed by the processor s causes the processor s to perform operations of receiving a capability for a number of supported channel state information configurations. The program code also causes the processor s to transmit CSI process configurations. The CSI process configurations identify CSI processes that can be requested by the eNodeB.

Another aspect of the present disclosure discloses wireless communication having a memory and at least one processor coupled to the memory. The processor s is configured to receive a capability for a number of supported channel state information configurations. The processor s is also configured to transmit CSI process configurations. The CSI process configurations identify CSI processes that can be requested by the eNodeB.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be described below. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that this disclosure may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present disclosure. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the teachings of the disclosure as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the disclosure both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present disclosure.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various configurations and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the concepts described herein may be practiced. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the various concepts. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that these concepts may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring such concepts.

Aspects of the telecommunication systems are presented with reference to various apparatus and methods. These apparatus and methods are described in the following detailed description and illustrated in the accompanying drawings by various blocks modules components circuits steps processes algorithms etc. collectively referred to as elements . These elements may be implemented using electronic hardware computer software or any combination thereof. Whether such elements are implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system.

By way of example an element or any portion of an element or any combination of elements may be implemented with a processing system that includes one or more processors. Examples of processors include microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors DSPs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable logic devices PLDs state machines gated logic discrete hardware circuits and other suitable hardware configured to perform the various functionality described throughout this disclosure. One or more processors in the processing system may execute software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions instruction sets code code segments program code programs subprograms software modules applications software applications software packages routines subroutines objects executables threads of execution procedures functions etc. whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode hardware description language or otherwise.

Accordingly in one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or encoded as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes computer storage media. Storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The E UTRAN includes the evolved Node B eNodeB and other eNodeBs . The eNodeB provides user and control plane protocol terminations toward the UE . The eNodeB may be connected to the other eNodeBs via a backhaul e.g. an X2 interface . The eNodeB may also be referred to as a base station a base transceiver station a radio base station a radio transceiver a transceiver function a basic service set BSS an extended service set ESS or some other suitable terminology. The eNodeB provides an access point to the EPC for a UE . Examples of UEs include a cellular phone a smart phone a session initiation protocol SIP phone a laptop a personal digital assistant PDA a satellite radio a global positioning system a multimedia device a video device a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a camera a game console or any other similar functioning device. The UE may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a mobile station a subscriber station a mobile unit a subscriber unit a wireless unit a remote unit a mobile device a wireless device a wireless communications device a remote device a mobile subscriber station an access terminal a mobile terminal a wireless terminal a remote terminal a handset a user agent a mobile client a client or some other suitable terminology.

The eNodeB is connected to the EPC via e.g. an S1 interface. The EPC includes a Mobility Management Entity MME other MMEs a Serving Gateway and a Packet Data Network PDN Gateway . The MME is the control node that processes the signaling between the UE and the EPC . Generally the MME provides bearer and connection management. All user IP packets are transferred through the Serving Gateway which itself is connected to the PDN Gateway . The PDN Gateway provides UE IP address allocation as well as other functions. The PDN Gateway is connected to the Operator s IP Services . The Operator s IP Services may include the Internet the Intranet an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and a PS Streaming Service PSS .

The modulation and multiple access scheme employed by the access network may vary depending on the particular telecommunications standard being deployed. In LTE applications OFDM is used on the downlink and SC FDMA is used on the uplink to support both frequency division duplexing FDD and time division duplexing TDD . As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate from the detailed description to follow the various concepts presented herein are well suited for LTE applications. However these concepts may be readily extended to other telecommunication standards employing other modulation and multiple access techniques. By way of example these concepts may be extended to Evolution Data Optimized EV DO or Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB . EV DO and UMB are air interface standards promulgated by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 as part of the CDMA2000 family of standards and employs CDMA to provide broadband Internet access to mobile stations. These concepts may also be extended to Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA employing Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA such as TD SCDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM employing TDMA and Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 and Flash OFDM employing OFDMA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from the 3GPP organization. CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from the 3GPP2 organization. The actual wireless communication standard and the multiple access technology employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system.

The eNodeBs may have multiple antennas supporting MIMO technology. The use of MIMO technology enables the eNodeBs to exploit the spatial domain to support spatial multiplexing beamforming and transmit diversity. Spatial multiplexing may be used to transmit different streams of data simultaneously on the same frequency. The data steams may be transmitted to a single UE to increase the data rate or to multiple UEs to increase the overall system capacity. This is achieved by spatially precoding each data stream i.e. applying a scaling of an amplitude and a phase and then transmitting each spatially precoded stream through multiple transmit antennas on the downlink. The spatially precoded data streams arrive at the UE s with different spatial signatures which enables each of the UE s to recover the one or more data streams destined for that UE . On the uplink each UE transmits a spatially precoded data stream which enables the eNodeB to identify the source of each spatially precoded data stream.

Spatial multiplexing is generally used when channel conditions are good. When channel conditions are less favorable beamforming may be used to focus the transmission energy in one or more directions. This may be achieved by spatially precoding the data for transmission through multiple antennas. To achieve good coverage at the edges of the cell a single stream beamforming transmission may be used in combination with transmit diversity.

In the detailed description that follows various aspects of an access network will be described with reference to a MIMO system supporting OFDM on the downlink. OFDM is a spread spectrum technique that modulates data over a number of subcarriers within an OFDM symbol. The subcarriers are spaced apart at precise frequencies. The spacing provides orthogonality that enables a receiver to recover the data from the subcarriers. In the time domain a guard interval e.g. cyclic prefix may be added to each OFDM symbol to combat inter OFDM symbol interference. The uplink may use SC FDMA in the form of a DFT spread OFDM signal to compensate for high peak to average power ratio PAPR .

A UE may be assigned resource blocks in the control section to transmit control information to an eNodeB. The UE may also be assigned resource blocks in the data section to transmit data to the eNodeB. The UE may transmit control information in a physical uplink control channel PUCCH on the assigned resource blocks in the control section. The UE may transmit only data or both data and control information in a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH on the assigned resource blocks in the data section. An uplink transmission may span both slots of a subframe and may hop across frequency.

A set of resource blocks may be used to perform initial system access and achieve uplink synchronization in a physical random access channel PRACH . The PRACH carries a random sequence. Each random access preamble occupies a bandwidth corresponding to six consecutive resource blocks. The starting frequency is specified by the network. That is the transmission of the random access preamble is restricted to certain time and frequency resources. There is no frequency hopping for the PRACH. The PRACH attempt is carried in a single subframe 1 ms or in a sequence of few contiguous subframes and a UE can make only a single PRACH attempt per frame 10 ms .

In the user plane the L2 layer includes a media access control MAC sublayer a radio link control RLC sublayer and a packet data convergence protocol PDCP sublayer which are terminated at the eNodeB on the network side. Although not shown the UE may have several upper layers above the L2 layer including a network layer e.g. IP layer that is terminated at the PDN gateway on the network side and an application layer that is terminated at the other end of the connection e.g. far end UE server etc. .

The PDCP sublayer provides multiplexing between different radio bearers and logical channels. The PDCP sublayer also provides header compression for upper layer data packets to reduce radio transmission overhead security by ciphering the data packets and handover support for UEs between eNodeBs. The RLC sublayer provides segmentation and reassembly of upper layer data packets retransmission of lost data packets and reordering of data packets to compensate for out of order reception due to hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ . The MAC sublayer provides multiplexing between logical and transport channels. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for allocating the various radio resources e.g. resource blocks in one cell among the UEs. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for HARQ operations.

In the control plane the radio protocol architecture for the UE and eNodeB is substantially the same for the physical layer and the L2 layer with the exception that there is no header compression function for the control plane. The control plane also includes a radio resource control RRC sublayer in Layer 3 L3 layer . The RRC sublayer is responsible for obtaining radio resources i.e. radio bearers and for configuring the lower layers using RRC signaling between the eNodeB and the UE.

The TX processor implements various signal processing functions for the L1 layer i.e. physical layer . The signal processing functions includes coding and interleaving to facilitate forward error correction FEC at the UE and mapping to signal constellations based on various modulation schemes e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM . The coded and modulated symbols are then split into parallel streams. Each stream is then mapped to an OFDM subcarrier multiplexed with a reference signal e.g. pilot in the time and or frequency domain and then combined together using an Inverse Fast Fourier Transform IFFT to produce a physical channel carrying a time domain OFDM symbol stream. The OFDM stream is spatially precoded to produce multiple spatial streams. Channel estimates from a channel estimator may be used to determine the coding and modulation scheme as well as for spatial processing. The channel estimate may be derived from a reference signal and or channel condition feedback transmitted by the UE . Each spatial stream is then provided to a different antenna via a separate transmitter TX. Each transmitter TX modulates an RF carrier with a respective spatial stream for transmission.

At the UE each receiver RX receives a signal through its respective antenna . Each receiver RX recovers information modulated onto an RF carrier and provides the information to the receiver RX processor . The RX processor implements various signal processing functions of the L1 layer. The RX processor performs spatial processing on the information to recover any spatial streams destined for the UE . If multiple spatial streams are destined for the UE they may be combined by the RX processor into a single OFDM symbol stream. The RX processor then converts the OFDM symbol stream from the time domain to the frequency domain using a Fast Fourier Transform FFT . The frequency domain signal comprises a separate OFDM symbol stream for each subcarrier of the OFDM signal. The symbols on each subcarrier and the reference signal is recovered and demodulated by determining the most likely signal constellation points transmitted by the eNodeB . These soft decisions may be based on channel estimates computed by the channel estimator . The soft decisions are then decoded and deinterleaved to recover the data and control signals that were originally transmitted by the eNodeB on the physical channel. The data and control signals are then provided to the controller processor .

The controller processor implements the L2 layer. The controller processor can be associated with a memory that stores program codes and data. The memory may be referred to as a computer readable medium. In the uplink the controller processor provides demultiplexing between transport and logical channels packet reassembly deciphering header decompression control signal processing to recover upper layer packets from the core network. The upper layer packets are then provided to a data sink which represents all the protocol layers above the L2 layer. Various control signals may also be provided to the data sink for L3 processing. The controller processor is also responsible for error detection using an acknowledgement ACK and or negative acknowledgement NACK protocol to support HARQ operations.

In the uplink a data source is used to provide upper layer packets to the controller processor . The data source represents all protocol layers above the L2 layer. Similar to the functionality described in connection with the downlink transmission by the eNodeB the controller processor implements the L2 layer for the user plane and the control plane by providing header compression ciphering packet segmentation and reordering and multiplexing between logical and transport channels based on radio resource allocations by the eNodeB . The controller processor is also responsible for HARQ operations retransmission of lost packets and signaling to the eNodeB .

Channel estimates derived by a channel estimator from a reference signal or feedback transmitted by the eNodeB may be used by the TX processor to select the appropriate coding and modulation schemes and to facilitate spatial processing. The spatial streams generated by the TX processor are provided to different antenna via separate transmitters TX. Each transmitter TX modulates an RF carrier with a respective spatial stream for transmission.

The uplink transmission is processed at the eNodeB in a manner similar to that described in connection with the receiver function at the UE . Each receiver RX receives a signal through its respective antenna . Each receiver RX recovers information modulated onto an RF carrier and provides the information to a RX processor . The RX processor may implement the L1 layer.

The controller processor implements the L2 layer. The controller processor can be associated with a memory that stores program codes and data. The memory may be referred to as a computer readable medium. In the uplink the controller processor provides demultiplexing between transport and logical channels packet reassembly deciphering header decompression control signal processing to recover upper layer packets from the UE . Upper layer packets from the controller processor may be provided to the core network. The controller processor is also responsible for error detection using an ACK and or NACK protocol to support HARQ operations.

CSI RS Configurations and CSI Reporting Restrictions to Increase Processing Time for Feedback Reporting

Various channel state information CSI feedback frameworks may be specified to support downlink coordinated multi point CoMP operations. The feedback frameworks may be based on non zero power NZP and or zero power ZP channel state information reference signal CSI RS resources. Channel measurements may be performed based on non zero power CSI RS resources. Additionally interference measurements may be performed based on zero power resources non zero power CSI RS resources or a combination thereof.

In some cases channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources may be specified to enable CSI feedback for different feedback frameworks and or interference hypotheses. Multiple channel measurement resources may be used to provide CSI feedback for different serving assumptions. For example in one configuration multiple channel measurement resources are specified for dynamic point selection DPS so that the CSI is reported for channel conditions from two separate transmission points. The channel measurement resources may also be specified for other types of CoMP operation.

As previously discussed the interference measurement resources may include zero power CSI RS resources non zero power CSI RS resources or a combination thereof. A UE may be configured to measure interference on an interference measurement resource to provide CSI feedback under different interference assumptions. That is for each interference measurement resource the UE may measures interference on the resources that include the interference measurement resource.

In one configuration by scheduling specific transmissions the network facilitates the interference measurement using different interfering assumptions on different interference measurement resources. For example in one configuration the network aligns the interference conditions with the interference measurement resources so that the interference measurement resources represent the potential or actual interference conditions experienced by the UE.

In another configuration a CSI process is specified to link the channel measurement resources and the interference measurement resources. That is each CSI process may include one or more channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources. The CSI processes may be referred to as CSI feedback reporting configurations or CSI process configurations.

In the present configuration the UE determines the CSI feedback based on both the channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources identified in a CSI process. The channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources are not limited to being distinct between various CSI processes. For example two different CSI processes may use the same interference measurement resource but different channel measurement resources.

Multiple CSI processes may increase the complexity of measuring the CSI and generating feedback reports. For example if the channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources corresponding to different CSI processes are configured in the same subframe a UE may simultaneously process the CSI for all the channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources in the same subframe. The simultaneous processing may increase the complexity of measuring the CSI and generating a feedback report.

Thus in one aspect of the present disclosure a number of channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources included in the channel state information feedback reports may be limited to reduce the complexity of measuring CSI and generating a feedback report. Specifically in one configuration the CSI process includes at maximum number of channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources in the same subframe. The maximum number of channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources may be predefined or dynamically configured. Accordingly the processing overhead for the UE may be reduced by limiting the number of channel measurement resources.

In one configuration CSI processes are restricted to a specific number of channel measurement resources N . Furthermore as previously discussed the network may also restrict the number of channel measurement resources M within the same subframe. For example the number of channel measurement resources may be limited to three e.g. Nequals three and the number of channel measurement resources within the same subframe may be limited to two e.g. Mequals two .

In another configuration the CSI processes are restricted to a predefined number of interference measurement resources N . Furthermore the network may also restrict the number of interference measurement resources M within the same subframe. For example the number of channel measurement resources may be limited to three e.g. Mequals three and the number of interference measurement resources within the same subframe may be limited to two e.g. Mequals two .

In still another configuration the maximum number of channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources configured within a subframe is based on whether resource restricted CSI subframe sets are configured. The restricted CSI subframe sets enable UEs to restrict the averaging of CSI information to a single subframe set. Accordingly when the resource restricted CSI subframe sets are configured separate CSI reports may be generated for the different interference hypotheses. For example the different interference hypotheses may be based on an enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC model and may identify whether macro interference is present on specific subframes.

As previously discussed the UE s complexity may increase as a result of the need to generate multiple CSI reports for different subframe sets. For example subframe sets may be enabled or disabled by configuration on a per CSI process basis. If subframe sets are enabled for a given CSI process two interference hypotheses may exist for this CSI process. One interference hypotheses may be for interference measurement resource occurrences that fall into the first subframe set and another interference hypotheses may be for interference measurement resource occurrences that fall into the second subframe set. In contrast if subframe sets are disabled for a given CSI process only one interference hypothesis exists. Therefore there is no need to differentiate interference measurement resource occurrences. Consequently when subframe sets are configured a UE s processing requirements may increase due to the need to process CSI information under two separate interference hypotheses.

Thus in one configuration the processing burden of a UE may be reduced when subframe sets are configured to limit the number of channel measurement resources and or the number of interference measurement resources to numbers that are less than the corresponding maximum number of channel measurement resources and the maximum number of interference measurement resources supported by the UE when subframe sets are not configured either overall or within a given subframe. That is to reduce the UE s complexity the maximum number of channel measurement resources and the maximum number of interference measurement resources assigned to a UE when subframe sets are configured may be limited to be less than the maximum number of channel measurement resources and or the maximum number of interference measurement resources that are supported by the UE when the subframe sets are not configured. Similarly the number of channel measurement resources and the number of interference measurement resources allowed within a single subframe when subframe sets are configured may be limited to be less than the maximum channel measurement resources and or the maximum number of interference measurement resources supported by the UE when subframe sets are not configured.

In another configuration a restriction is placed on the number of CSI processes. As previously discussed the CSI process may link a channel measurement resource with an interference measurement resource for the CSI reporting. In some cases although the maximum number of channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources are limited the number of possible CSI processes may still be large. Thus the maximum number of supported CSI processes may also be limited. The maximum number of supported CSI processes may be an absolute pre defined number or may be based on a UE capability that is signaled by the UE to the network. For example the UE capability signaling may indicate that the UE supports a specific number of CSI processes. This number may be selected by the UE and may depend on implementation constraints or other factors.

In another configuration channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources may be configured to occur in the same subframe. In some cases the interference conditions that are outside the control of a specific CoMP cluster may be similar in such a subframe. The commonality of interference conditions from outside a set of coordinating cells may be beneficial for CSI reporting. Alternatively in another configuration the interference measurement resources may be configured to occur in separate subframes so that the interference measured based on interference measurement resources is diverse. In this configuration the interference measurement resources are associated with different CSI processes.

In another configuration the periodicity for the interference measurement resources and channel measurement resources can be aligned with muting configurations. Specifically in some cases when channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources are located in different subframes zero power CSI RS resources may not be configured in both the subframes that contain the channel measurement resources and in the subframes that contain the interference measurement resources. The potential restriction on subframes zero power CSI RS may be specified because the zero power CSI RS may only be configured with one subframe offset and periodicity. Consequently the zero power CSI RS may not be configured to be present in both the subframes that include channel measurement resources and the subframes that include interference measurement resources.

Thus in one configuration the periodicity of channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources may be selected to correspond to an integer multiple of the zero power CSI RS periodicity. Further the subframe offset of channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources may be selected so that both the channel measurement resources and the interference measurement resources in subframes associated with zero power CSI RS. For example when channel measurement resources are transmitted in two separate subframes if both of the subframes are transmitted with a periodicity of 10 ms and with an offset of 5 ms the existing muting configurations may be used to mute for channel measurement resources in each subframe. However if the offset and the periodicity of each subframe that includes the channel measurement resources are not aligned then the muting may not be possible when only a single muting configuration is supported.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is directed to increasing a worst case CSI re computation period. The worst case UE processing complexity may increase or decrease based on a CSI feedback processing timeline. In LTE Release 10 only one CSI process corresponding to a single non zero power CSI RS resource is supported. Therefore the periodicity for channel measurement resources is 5 ms at most.

However in LTE Release 11 the CSI feedback may be initiated based on multiple channel measurement resources. The channel measurement resources may correspond to different non zero power CSI RS resources each of which may be configured with a different subframe configuration parameter such as the subframeConfig parameter. For interference measurements interference measurement resources provide for dedicated interference measurement with a 5 ms periodicity. It should be noted that even if more than one interference measurement resource is supported the interference measurement resources would still be located within the same subframe due to the common subframe configuration of zero power CSI RS resources.

In some cases the complexity of CSI feedback may be increased because the interference measurement resources and the channel measurement resources may not be located within the same subframe. For example illustrates an example of a worst case CSI re computation period. Specifically illustrates a feedback timeline assuming three configured channel measurement resources CMR CMR CMR that all share a common interference measurement resource IMR. The three channel measurement resources CMR CMR CMR are located within the same subframe n but are offset by one subframe in comparison to the subframe n 1 that includes interference measurement resource IMR.

As previously discussed the CSI measurements may use both interference measurement resources and channel measurement resources. Thus a re computation of the CSI information i.e. RI PMI CQI may be triggered by either an occurrence of an interference measurement resource or a channel measurement resource. A short time period between CSI re computation may increase the UE complexity. For example as illustrated in the aperiodic CSI trigger 1 in subframe n 4 requests CSI feedback for all channel measurement resources of subframe n based on the interference measurement resource occurrence in subframe n 4. The CSI reports report 1 based on the interference measurement resource of subframe n 4 and the channel measurement resources of subframe n is reported at subframe n 4. Additionally the CSI reports report 2 that are triggered in subframe n 1 trigger 2 cause a re computation of all three channel measurement resource reports of subframe n based on the interference measurement resource occurrence in subframe n 1. This leads to a worst case re computation interval of just one subframe possibly for all configured CSI processes.

Still based on various configurations the worst case CSI re computation period may be increased. In one configuration when the interference measurement resources and channel measurement resources are restricted to be within a same subframe the CSI re computation for a given CSI process occurs at most every 5 ms. Accordingly the CSI re computation periodicity may be in line with the minimum periodicity of non zero power and zero power CSI RS resources. Furthermore the CSI re computation periodicity of the present configuration may be aligned with an alignment of the channel measurement resource and interference measurement resource reporting periodicity.

According to another configuration the worst case CSI re computation period may be improved by specifying a CSI re computation trigger. The CSI re computation trigger may be configured by the network and may be used to identify the subframes that should be used for performing a CSI re computation. In this configuration a stand alone occurrence of the channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources may not trigger a CSI re computation. Rather in the present configuration a UE only performs the re computation when the UE identifies a subframe that is configured as a CSI re computation trigger. The CSI re computation trigger may be configured via radio resource control signaling and may have a periodicity and an offset setting similar to a subframe configuration parameter such as the subframeConfig parameter that is used for non zero power and zero power CSI RS configurations. For example re computations may be triggered to occur at subframe n n 5 and n 10. Alternatively other signaling techniques for configuring the CSI re computation trigger may be used in place or in addition to the aforementioned configuration.

To reduce the UE complexity in view of the disclosed configurations the maximum number of CSI re computation triggers within a specific number of subframes may be limited. For example according to one configuration the number of CSI re computation may be limited to no more than NCSI reconfiguration triggers within any 5 ms period. Furthermore the number of CSI reconfiguration triggers Nmay be either a predefined number or may depend on a UE capability parameter. The UE may transmit the UE capability parameter to the network.

In yet another configuration the scenarios for re computing the CSI are re defined. For example in the case of a re computation interval of one subframe see the UE may not use all of the channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources regardless of whether the channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources are located in or before the reference subframe.

According to another configuration the CSI re computation may be mitigated by using outdated channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources. For example as illustrated in based on the interference measurement resource IMR in subframe n the UE may not re compute CSI process associated with CMR and IMR . Rather the UE may use outdated CSI computed in subframe n 5 when both CMR and IMR were present in the same subframe. The present configuration mitigates CSI re computation by specifying that the UE can reuse the earlier CSI computation which has already been computed.

In another configuration specific rules for instructing the UE to reuse earlier CSI computations may be incorporated into a wireless standard such as the LTE standard. The earlier CSI computations may refer to CSI computations obtained based on outdated channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources. For example the UE may be signaled a specific shelf life for the CSI measurements. That is the UE may be signaled whether specific outdated channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources may be used in the CSI computation. Alternatively or in addition the UE may be signaled the number of outdated channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources that may be used in the CSI computation.

In some cases the CSI processes of the CSI process configurations are indexed. Furthermore the CSI processes may be prioritized based on their corresponding indexes. Thus in cases where the UE receives a number of CSI requests that exceed the maximum number of supported channel state information processes the UE may provide outdated CSI reports for the highest indexed processes to the extent that the number of CSI requests exceed the maximum number of supported channel state information processes. Additionally the UE may generate at least one channel state information report based on the last indicated measurement resources for the lowest indexed processes up to the maximum number of supported channel state information processes. While indexing provides one basis for prioritizing CSI processes the prioritization may be based on other approaches such as queuing requests based on first in first out FIFO order ignoring requests beyond a maximum supported number of requests or combining CSI requests that occur every n subframes where n is greater than one .

Moreover in one configuration the use of outdated measurements may be restricted to occurrences in which the CSI re computation load in a given subframe or within a certain time period is greater than a threshold value. The present configuration may specify that outdated CSI are used for the purpose of reducing UE complexity limitations. The aforementioned rules may be incorporated directly into the specification or may be signaled to the UE.

As previously discussed one aspect of the present disclosure specifies that the channel measurement resources and or interference measurement resources of the same CSI process should be located within the same subframe. Furthermore another configuration specifies that CSI re computations are only triggered by an occurrences of specific reference signals such as channel measurement resources.

In still another configuration a restriction is placed on the type of feedback reports that are configured in subframes. Specifically to reduce the UE s processing load the types of feedback reports that may be requested by the network in a specified subframe may be restricted. For example for aperiodic feedback reporting the network may dynamically trigger the reporting of specific CSI feedback reporting configurations. In general a restriction may not be placed on the types of feedback reporting configurations that may be requested. Still by restricting the set of feedback reporting configurations that may be requested by the network in certain subframes the UE complexity may be reduced because not all types of reporting configuration may be triggered by the network. In this configuration the UE may distribute feedback computations in time thereby reducing the UE s complexity.

In another configuration the restriction on the type of feedback reports that are configured in subframes are indicated by the radio resource control. That is the radio resource control may configure only certain sets of feedback reporting configurations on a per subframe basis. A bitmap may be used to signal the restriction of the feedback report types. The bitmap may be a function of the subframe number. In yet another configuration the restriction of the feedback report types may be associated with the type of subframe e.g. multimedia broadcast multicast service single frequency network MBSFN or non MSBSFN . Alternatively the restriction of the feedback report types may be based on the subframe sets comprising CSI subframe restriction.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is directed to the triggering of aperiodic CSI reports. That is the CSI process requests may be aperiodic. In some cases multiple CSI processes may be supported. Therefore there may be a need to dynamically trigger specific CSI processes. In one configuration the aperiodic CSI request field may be used to dynamically trigger specific CSI processes. That is the mapping of the bits comprising this CSI request field may be linked to radio resource control configured CSI processes. For example a specific bit combination in the CSI request field may be linked with a specific CSI process i.e. which type of report to generate . Moreover the number of bits in the aperiodic CSI request field may be increased because the number of reporting options may be increased in CoMP.

In another aspect of the present disclosure implicit signaling may be used to trigger different channel state information reporting configurations. Moreover the implicit signaling may also be used in combination with the aperiodic CSI request field. The implicit signaling may be associated with a number of parameters. In one configuration the implicit signaling may be associated with the subframe type such as a MBSFN or non MBSFN subframe or the restricted CSI subset of the subframe. In another configuration the implicit signaling may also be based on whether a trigger is received via a legacy control channel such as a PDCCH or the EPDCCH. In still yet another configuration the implicit signaling may be based on the DCI format type. In another configuration a search space may be partitioned and the implicit signaling may be based on the which partition includes the decoded DCI format.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is directed to an aperiodic channel quality indicator CQI only transmission in a shared uplink channel such as the physical uplink shared channel PUSCH . The CQI only transmission may use a specific combination of signaling parameters in the grant i.e. DCI format. For example if DCI format is used for the uplink grant then aperiodic CQI only may be enabled by setting a modulation and coding scheme index IMCS to twenty a total number of physical resource blocks PRB less than or equal to four non carrier aggregation CA PRB less than or equal to twenty CA and CQI request to one. In case of CoMP the configuration of PRB may be specified as PRB less than or equal to a value greater than twenty one to allow for increased flexibility in accommodating both carrier aggregation and CoMP.

Once the CSI process configuration are signaled to the UE the eNodeB may dynamically signal CSI requests to the UE. This signaling may include an index value identifying the desired CSI process during a given subframe. The total number of active CSI processes i.e. or pending CSI requests may not exceed the UE capability. Each CSI process configuration may identify one or more channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources. The UE may determine the CSI feedback based on both the channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources identified in the CSI process configuration. To the extent that the total number of CSI processes exceed the UE capability the UE may provide outdated CSI reports as previously discussed based on various prioritization techniques.

In one configuration the UE is configured for wireless communication including means for determining. In one aspect of the present disclosure the determining means may be the controller processor memory receive processor and or modulators configured to perform the functions recited by the determining means. In another configuration the UE is configured for wireless communication including means for transmitting. In one aspect of the present disclosure the transmitting means may be the controller processor memory transmit processor antennas and or modulators configured to perform the functions recited by the determining means. In another configuration the UE is configured for wireless communication including means for receiving. In one aspect of the present disclosure the receiving means may be the controller processor memory receive processor antennas and or modulators configured to perform the functions recited by the receiving means. In another aspect the aforementioned means may be any module or any apparatus configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means.

Once the CSI process configuration are signaled to the UE the eNodeB may dynamically signal CSI requests to the UE. This signaling may include an index value identifying the desired CSI process during a given subframe. Each CSI process configuration may include one or more channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources. The UE may determine the CSI feedback based on both the channel measurement resources and interference measurement resources identified in the CSI process configuration. The eNodeB may limit the number of dynamically signaled CSI requests based on the maximum number of UE supported channel state information processes. However the UE may be configured to provide outdated CSI reports if the channel state information processes exceed the maximum number of UE supported channel state information processes.

In one configuration the eNodeB is configured for wireless communication including means for receiving. In one aspect the receiving means may be the receive processor demodulators controller processor and or antenna configured to perform the functions recited by the receiving means. In another configuration the eNodeB is configured for wireless communication including means for transmitting. In one aspect the transmitting means may be the controller processor memory demodulators antenna and or transmit processor configured to perform the functions recited by the limiting means. In another aspect the aforementioned means may be any module or any apparatus configured to perform the functions recited by the aforementioned means.

The apparatus includes a processing system coupled to a transceiver . The transceiver is coupled to one or more antennas . The transceiver enables communicating with various other apparatus over a transmission medium. The processing system includes a processor coupled to a computer readable medium . The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing system to perform the various functions described for any particular apparatus. The computer readable medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software.

The processing system includes a determining module for determining a UE capability corresponding to a maximum number of supported channel state information processes. The processing system also includes a transmitting module for transmitting the determined capability to an eNodeB. The processing system further includes a receiving module for receiving one or more CSI process configurations. The modules may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable medium one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof. The processing system may be a component of the UE and may include the memory and or the controller processor .

The apparatus includes a processing system coupled to a transceiver . The transceiver is coupled to one or more antennas . The transceiver enables communicating with various other apparatus over a transmission medium. The processing system includes a processor coupled to a computer readable medium . The processor is responsible for general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing system to perform the various functions described for any particular apparatus. The computer readable medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software.

The processing system includes a receiving module for receiving a capability for a number of supported channel state information configurations. Additionally the processing system includes a transmitting module for transmitting channel state information configurations. The processing system may also include a limiting module for limiting a number of channel state information configurations transmitted to a user equipment UE based at least in part on the received capability. The modules may be software modules running in the processor resident stored in the computer readable medium one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof. The processing system may be a component of the eNodeB and may include the memory and or the controller processor .

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

