---

title: User controlled data speed selector systems and methods
abstract: A method in accordance with an embodiment allows for a user to change a wireless speed setting for a device. The method includes sending, from a server over a network, information for displaying an interface in a web page to allow a user to change a wireless speed setting for the device. The method further includes receiving, by the server over the network, a selected wireless speed setting as input by the user into the interface. The change of the wireless speed is then performed by sending, to a computer of a wireless network provider, a request to change the wireless speed setting for the device to the selected wireless speed setting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09619127&OS=09619127&RS=09619127
owner: NETZERO WIRELESS, INC.
number: 09619127
owner_city: Woodland Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130304
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent App. Ser. No. 61 625 622 filed Apr. 17 2012 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of systems and methods disclosed herein relate generally to the field of mobile broadband communication. More specifically various aspects are directed to enabling mobile broadband users to adjust a wireless speed for their electronic devices.

Mobile broadband providers sell allotments of data to mobile device users. When a mobile device user exceeds an amount of the data allotted a provider may charge overage fees to the user based on previously agreed upon overage fees. A data rate provided by the mobile broadband provider may significantly affect an amount of data that is used by the mobile device user.

A method in accordance with an embodiment allows for a user to change a wireless speed setting for a device. The method includes sending from a server over a network information for displaying an interface in a web page to allow a user to change a wireless speed setting for the device. The method further includes receiving by the server over the network a selected wireless speed setting as input by the user into the interface. The change of the wireless speed is performed by sending to a computer of a wireless network provider a request to change the wireless speed setting for the device to the selected wireless speed setting.

A speed selector feature allows for selecting a wireless speed for wireless communications performed by a wireless device. In various embodiments the speed selector feature provides for at least two different wireless speed settings such as for example two different 4G wireless speed settings and allows an end user of a wireless service to change between any of the available wireless speeds at any time. For example in various embodiments there are two available wireless speeds settings such as but not limited to i a first speed setting which may be called LightSpeed that limits a download speed to the wireless device to 1 Mbit s and limits an upload speed from the wireless device to 384 Kb s and ii a second speed setting which may be called WarpSpeed in which a wireless speed for the wireless device is limited only by provider location and environmental factors at a current location of the wireless device. In various embodiments the wireless network provider s maximum wireless speeds may allow for example for 10 Mbits s download and 1.5 Mbit s upload speeds.

Initial settings for a wireless speed setting may be based on a data plan purchased by an end user. There may be various plans that allow for different amounts of monthly data to be used by the end user. In addition to price and data allotment each wireless data plan may also specify a default speed setting for that plan. For example a free plan with 200 MB month for 12 months and a 9.95 plan with 500 MB month may both default to the LightSpeed setting and higher plans such as for example 1 GB 19.95 2 GB 34.95 and 4 GB 49.95 may default to the WarpSpeed setting.

In various embodiments a server provides a website at which the user can access their account information. On web pages for the user s account provided by the website the user can view for example data usage and billing history and can manage for example their profile. In various embodiments within a wireless service tile on one or more of the web pages of the website there is a web page resource such as a link that allows the end user to change their current wireless speed setting for their wireless device. In some embodiments clicking the link brings up an overlay or another web page showing the current wireless speed setting for the wireless device as well as maximum speeds for each of the selectable wireless speed settings. The user can then change the wireless speed setting and click save to affect the change. In various embodiments saving a changed wireless speed setting enqueues information associated with the user s wireless device in a provisioning change queue.

Service provisioning can be used to change the wireless speed of the user s wireless device when a change in the wireless speed setting is selected by the user. In various embodiments a wireless provider supports the concept of an offer in their system and each offer has various attributes including maximum upload and download speeds. For example a first offer which may be called a WarpSpeed offer may have no bandwidth limitations while a second offer which may be called a LightSpeed offer may have all the same settings as the WarpSpeed offer except that the download speed may be limited to 1 Mbit s and the upload speed may be limited to 384 Kbit s.

In various embodiments the wireless device does not know which data speeds it will be provisioned with by the network and the data speeds are controlled on the network side by the wireless network provider account management system and or user requests to the account management system. In some embodiments during initial provisioning of the wireless device within the wireless provider s network the wireless provisioning code may simply look at a setting on the wireless device which could be the same as the plan s default setting and either provision the wireless device with the WarpSpeed offer or the LightSpeed offer. In various embodiments at any time the user can change the speed setting. Also in various embodiments wireless provisioning sees the requested change within several minutes and calls an application programming interface API to change the wireless device from a current offer to a new offer. Upon confirmation that the change has been made the user will see the speed lower or raise automatically. In various embodiments there is no need for a user to disconnect reconnect or power cycle their wireless device to have the changes to the wireless speed setting take effect.

In various embodiments a wireless user s wireless network speed is set to one of a plurality of possible initial settings depending on a wireless data plan the user purchases. In some embodiments if the user subsequently upgrades or downgrades their wireless data plan the user s network speed defaults to the new wireless data plan s speed regardless of its current setting. In some such embodiments a user can otherwise change the speed of their wireless connection at any time as many times as they want.

The data processing system may include among other devices a wireless device a wireless network provider an account management system network and a computing device . The wireless network provider the account management system and the computing device may communicate through the network which may include one or more of the Internet cellular networks Wi Fi networks WiMAX networks a proprietary communication network and or the like. The wireless device the wireless network provider the account management system and the computing device may each comprise a computer system e.g. one or more processors configured to execute instructions send and receive data stored in non transitory storage mediums memory and perform other operations to implement the operations described herein associated with processes shown in .

The wireless device includes at least one wireless antenna that communicates with the wireless network provider . In some embodiments the wireless device includes at least one wireless antenna that communicates with one or more other mobile computing devices. In these embodiments the wireless device may act as a wireless or wired router to one or more mobile computing devices and may allow the mobile computing devices to communicate with the network . In yet another embodiment the wireless device may communicate with one or more mobile computing devices via a Wi Fi NFC and or Bluetooth protocol. In one embodiment the wireless device may have a Universal Serial Bus USB connector that connects to a USB connector of a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device could be a desktop laptop tablet personal computer PC tablet mobile telephone smart phone and so on. In another embodiment the wireless device may communicate with a computing device via a USB connection and communicate wirelessly with the wireless network provider . In another embodiment the wireless device may communicate with some computing devices via a wireless link and with other computing devices thought wired CAT 5 USB and or Thunderbolt cables. In one embodiment the wireless device can receive power from at least one of a battery in wall power outlet USB connector or inductive power transfer to a battery.

The wireless device may be used by an individual user e.g. a business owner or employee a consumer and so on to interact with the network and account management system . The wireless device may for example be a cellular phone smart phone mobile handheld wireless e mail device personal digital assistant portable gaming devices tablet router or other suitable device. The wireless device may include a network interface device a display device e.g. Liquid Crystal Display LCD screen Light Emitting Diode LED screen indicator lights an input device e.g. keyboard mouse buttons and or switches and so on and a storage medium.

In one embodiment the wireless device may be a computing device with a processor coupled to a machine readable storage medium. In this embodiment the computing device may have a wireless antenna that is configured to communicate using at least one of a WiMax IEEE 802.16 standard 2G HSPA HSPA 802.11a 802.11z 3G LTE or 4G protocol and or other wireless protocols. The wireless device may be configured to communicate with a base station that can communicate with the network other wireless network provider systems or the account management system .

The wireless network provider includes various systems and computers. In one embodiment the wireless network provider includes the base station a market policy server a global policy server an API server and a device database . In one embodiment the base station the market policy server the global policy server the API server and the device database are implemented on a single unitary computer system. Alternatively the base station the market policy server the global policy server the API server and the device database can each be implemented on a plurality of distributed computer systems that are connected with each other. Additionally or alternatively the base station the market policy server the global policy server the API server and the device database may be remotely located e.g. in different buildings or cities from each other and receive power from different power outlets. In one embodiment the base station may be remotely located from the market policy server the global policy server the API server and the device database . In some embodiments the base station can connect through a proprietary wired system with one or more of the market policy server the global policy server the API server and the device database .

The base station includes a plurality of antennas that are capable of communicating wirelessly with various different types of mobile devices. In some embodiments the base station communicates with various components of the wireless network provider . Additionally in some embodiments the base station is configured to communicate with the network or other proprietary or public networks e.g. the Internet . In some embodiments the base station communicates data to and from the wireless device and to and from the network . In some embodiments the wireless device and the base station work together to act as an intermediary between the computing device and the network .

The market policy server may also be known as a wireless area policy server or a pre market policy server. The market policy server is implemented as a computer system with a processor coupled to a non transitory storage medium. The market policy server includes network communication components that are capable of communicating with the global policy server . The market policy server receives policy parameters from the global policy server to put into effect a change of a wireless speed setting for the wireless device . The policy parameters may be changed by the user of the wireless device the wireless network provider the account management system or by a user from the computing device . The policy parameters can include the data transfer speeds at which the wireless device uploads and downloads data from the network . The policy parameters can include authentication information for the wireless device . The market policy server may conduct network resource management among a plurality of wireless devices that are similar to the wireless device . Network resource management includes for example authentication wireless device usage tracking tracking client use patterns logging changes or modifications providing automatic updates and maintaining data privacy. The market policy server can enforce the policies it receives from the global policy server .

In various embodiments the global policy server is implemented in a computer system with a processor coupled to a non transitory storage medium. Also in various embodiments the global policy server includes communication components that are capable of communicating with the market policy server the API server the device database and the network . The global policy server receives policy parameters from the account management system via the network to put into effect the change of the wireless data transfer rates for the wireless device . In some embodiments the market policy server and the global policy server may be implemented using a single server or multiple servers.

The device database is configured to store authentication information regarding the users and the user devices e.g. wireless device . The device database may be a relational database that is accessible by the market policy server global policy server and API server . In various embodiments the device database is implemented in a computer system with a processor coupled to a non transitory storage medium. The device database may be updated periodically as the wireless network provider system queries or receives updates from the account management system .

In various embodiments the API server is implemented as a computer system with a processor coupled to a non transitory storage medium. In some embodiments the API server receives provisioning information from the account management system . Additionally or alternatively the API server receives a list of user s their authentication information and other settings. The API server may process the received information convert the information into instructions for the other devices in the wireless network provider system and transmit the instructions to be processed and implemented by the base station market policy server global policy server API server and device database . The API server receives requests from a wireless provisioning server over the network . After receiving the request the API server verifies that the request is valid and that appropriate permissions are provided with any data rate change request. The API server updates the device database according to the data rate change requests. The device database is queried by the global policy server for data rate changes. Upon receiving information about a data rate change the global policy server informs the market policy server which in turn informs the base station to communicate with the wireless device at the user chosen data rate.

The data processing system includes the network which may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wired or wireless network the Internet or a combination thereof. The network transfers data between a plurality of systems such as but not limited to the wireless device the wireless network provider the account management system the computing device and other systems.

The account management system includes a plurality of computer systems and network connections. The account management system includes an account management web server a device queue a device database and the wireless provisioning sever . In one embodiment the account management web server the device queue the device database and the wireless provisioning sever are implemented on a single unitary computer system. Alternatively the account management web server the device queue the device database and the wireless provisioning sever can each be implemented on a plurality of connected computer systems. Additionally or alternatively the account management web server the device queue the device database and the wireless provisioning sever can be remotely located e.g. in different buildings or cities from each other and receive power from different power outlets. In one embodiment the account management web server may be remotely located from the device queue the device database and the wireless provisioning sever . In some embodiments the account management web server the device queue the device database and the wireless provisioning sever are connected through a proprietary wired system.

The account management web server is a web server that provides account management controls to account administrators and to users such as a user of the computing device and the wireless device . In one embodiment the account management web server generates various web pages that allow the user to change upload and download data rates. In another embodiment the account management web server allows the wireless network provider to provide updates regarding wireless users to the account management system . In one embodiment the account management web server may query the device database for a user s current wireless speed. After receiving the wireless speed information from the device database the account management web server may generate a response for a user s web browser request. The account management web server may transmit data or a message to the user s web browser to generate an overlay that informs the user of a current wireless speed setting e.g. download 1.0 Mbit s upload 384 Kbits s .

The account management system is configured to receive from a user of the wireless device a change in their wireless or wired data transfer rate. The account management web server is configured to generate a web page that allows a user to choose their download upload or download and upload speeds. If the account management web server receives a change in the wireless speed from the user of the wireless device the account management web server inserts a change speed request into the device queue . The change speed request indicates to other computer systems that this request is to change the wireless data rate transfer speed. The change speed request includes the new data rate chosen by the user and may also include user identifying information wireless device identifying information e.g. identifying information for the wireless device an urgency indicator and or price change information. The account management web server informs the user via their web browser that the data rate change request has been successful if the change in speed is completed. The web browser may be displayed to the user on the wireless device the computing device or another user device.

The device queue can be implemented on a computer system with a processor and a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The device queue may include a prioritization algorithm where the request to change the data transfer rate is given a higher priority than other requests. In another embodiment the device queue may be a first in first out FIFO queue.

The device database keeps track of the current device status and is updated once the request for the change in data speed is processed. The device database also informs the account management web server regarding the current data transfer rate of the user s wireless device .

The wireless provisioning server can be implemented on a computer system with a processor and a non transitory computer readable storage medium. The wireless provisioning server may be configured to perform provisioning on a periodic basis daily hourly or after a certain number of minutes. The wireless provisioning server queries unprocessed requests for change in data speed from the device queue and for each request the wireless provisioning server performs any necessary actions before marking the request complete. In some embodiments the functionality of the account management web server the device queue and the wireless provisioning server is provided by a single server.

When a user requests a change in a wireless data transfer rate the wireless provisioning server requests that the API server inform the base station to transmit data at the rate chosen by the user. If the request by the wireless provisioning server fails then the wireless provisioning system informs the user that the request cannot be processed and the wireless provisioning server moves on to a next request in the device queue . While the wireless provisioning server is processing a request the request is amended to indicate that the request is being processed. The wireless provisioning server may be configured to check the status of all requests that are being processed each time it queries the device queue .

In some embodiments the user is enabled to select web pages that may need higher data transfer rates. In these embodiments the data transfer rate for loading the selected web page may be higher than for other web pages loaded to the user s wireless device . The user may be allowed to specify the data transfer rate for the selected web pages. Alternatively the data processing system may automatically determine the transfer rate for the selected web pages.

If the wireless provisioning server receives an in progress data rate change request the wireless provisioning server contacts the wireless network provider API server to request a status of the data rate change request. If the request has been completed then the device database is updated to reflect the changed data rate.

In some embodiments the data transfer rate may be adjusted based on the location of the wireless device . For example if the wireless device is physically located in another wireless network provider s network then the data transfer rate may be automatically updated to reflect the limitation of another wireless provider s network data transfer limitations. In another example various areas in the coverage of the wireless network provider may have different maximum data transfer rates. The data transfer rate of the wireless device may be automatically adjusted based on the allowed data transfer rate when it is located in a particular area or zone.

The data transfer rate may vary by the type of connection that is available to the wireless device at the moment. For example when a Wi MAX connection is used a certain data transfer rate may be allowed while a different data transfer rate may be allowed for another type of connection such as an LTE or 3G connection. The wireless device could have different identifications for cellular and Wi Fi networks. For example the user could specify any data transfer speed when the wireless device is in a Wi Fi network but be limited to a certain speed when the wireless device is using a cellular network.

In other embodiments when a predetermined amount of data e.g. the first Gigabyte of data is used by the wireless device for data transfer purposes the data transfer rate may be automatically updated e.g. by the policy server or to a lower number. The user or the data processing system may specify the predetermined amount of data. In another embodiment the data transfer rate is automatically updated after a predetermined percentage of data allotment is used or when a predetermined dollar amount is spent by the wireless account on the data transfer by the wireless device . The user or the data processing system may specify the predetermined percentage of data allotment and the predetermined dollar amount.

In various embodiments the data processing system can track the transfer data rate by user regardless of devices being used by the users. For example two user devices belonging to a particular user may be sharing a data allotment. In this example the data transfer speed on each of the two user devices may be adjusted depending on the data usage by the two user devices.

The data processing system may implement one or more rewards mechanisms that would reward users for particular activities by increasing the user s data allotment. For example the user may be rewarded for looking at advertisements or other types of web page content referring other users to certain web pages signing up for memberships on predetermined web pages etc. The users may accumulate points which can be redeemed for higher data transfer speeds.

An application may be installed on the user device e.g. the wireless device or the computing device which would route all traffic to a mobile virtual network operator MVNO . The MVNO would perform deep packet inspection and act as a proxy in processing the traffic.

With reference to the wireless network provider includes the base station policy server device database and management server . The base station performs and provides similar functionality as described above with respect to the base station in . The policy server may be configured to perform the functions of the market policy server and global policy server . In another embodiment the device database is configured to perform the functions of the device databases and and the device queue . The management server performs the functions of the API server account management server and provisioning server . In other embodiments the policy server and management server may be implemented as a single computer system. Alternatively the policy server and management server may be implemented in a distributed computer system. In one embodiment the device database may be implemented in a distributed computer system or a single computer system. Both wireless device and computer device may be configured to access the policy server device database and management server as discussed throughout this application with respect to market policy server global policy server API server device database account management web server device queue device database and wireless provisioning server .

The wireless network provider system may include each of the systems shown in the wireless network provider system of . For example with reference to in various embodiments the wireless network provider system includes base station market policy server global policy server API server and device database . The wireless network provider system also includes the account management system which includes each system and functionality shown in the account management system of . For example the account management system includes the account management web server device queue device database and wireless provisioning server . In various implementations the wireless network provider system provides the account management functionality including but not limited to providing the user with controls to throttle their wireless data speed. In some embodiments the wireless network provider system is configured to provide the user with the ability to change their wireless speed without requiring any external computer systems. The wireless router is configured to communicate with the base station . The wireless router is designed with one or more antennas which are capable of communicating with the user devices and . Also shown in is the wireless USB device that may be connected to the user device and the user device may provide the power needed for the wireless USB device . The wireless router and the wireless USB device are additional examples of wireless devices for which a wireless speed can be controlled using methods disclosed herein. In one example embodiment the user device is a tablet computer the user device is a laptop computer the user device is a desktop computer and the user device is a mobile telephone.

The web page includes a slider a scale and a data usage indicator . The slider includes a sliding element that allows a user to move the sliding element to select a desired wireless speed. In various other embodiments other types of graphical user interfaces may be used in place of the slider or in addition to the slider and allow the user to provide keyboard touch verbal instructions or pointing device input to change the wireless speed setting. Types of graphical user interfaces include but are not limited to toggles buttons checkboxes radio buttons list boxes spinners drop down lists menus ribbons combo boxes text boxes and or the like. The user may use scale to determine whether the user would like to choose a data transfer rate of a LightSpeed or a WarpSpeed or another rate between those speeds. In the embodiment shown in the user may select among speeds and . In some examples the LightSpeed may represent a download speed of up to 1.0 Mbit s and an upload speed of up to 384 Kbit s. In some examples the WarpSpeed may represent a maximum download speed of 10 Mbit s and a maximum upload speed of 1.5 Mbit s.

In various embodiments the user may update the download speed and or the upload speed associated with the data transfer rate. For example the user may change the download speed but leave the upload speed unchanged. In another example the user may change the upload speed but leave the download speed unchanged. In another example the user may change both the upload speed and download speed at the same time. In the example shown in the download and upload speeds are updated in pairs by the user moving the sliding element of the slider .

Although LightSpeed and WarpSpeed are displayed on the ends of the slider another terminology may be used to indicate that the left side of the slider indicates a lower speed while the right side of the slider indicates a higher speed e.g. Low Speed and High Speed .

With reference again to when the user makes a selection on the web page a web browser in which the web page is displayed sends a selected value for the wireless speed to the account management web server of the account management system . The account management system requests that the wireless network provider change a data transfer rate for communications between the wireless device and the base station . In one example embodiment the data usage indicator shows an amount of the total data allotment that has been used by the user as of the latest data usage reported by the wireless network provider . With reference to when the user makes a selection on the web page a web browser that displayed the web page sends a selected value for the wireless speed to the account management web server of the account management system . The account management system requests that the wireless network provider change a data transfer rate for communications between the wireless device and the base station .

Rather than throttling the speed on high data usage users various embodiments give the users the ability to slow or increase their speed down themselves e.g. as shown in . In various embodiments there is a switch input box slider menu or other input mechanism provided to users of wireless devices on a web page or a desktop application enabling the users to switch between available wireless speeds. Adjusting the speed setting to a lower speed offers lower download and upload speeds to help preserve data usage. Adjusting the speed setting to a higher speed offers faster download and upload speeds but may use a data allowance at a faster rate.

In various embodiments clicking on an icon such as a LightSpeed or a WarpSpeed icon allows for changing a wireless speed for a user s wireless device. By slowing the speed a user can conserve data. For example some websites can be very heavy data intensive to load so the speed selector mechanism can help users protect preserve their monthly allotment from such websites by selecting a low speed because some of these websites use speed detection to determine how and or what they will display to a wireless device for their web page. By slowing down a connection speed of a device e.g. wireless device of or devices of visited sites may change an experience to cater to that connection speed. For example by slowing down the wireless speed of the connection a website may only show a standard definition video and not a High Definition video where the standard definition video will consume less data than a high definition version of the video.

In step the web browser receives input that selects a connection speed link on an account web page of the account management website. For example the user could select or input the connection speed link on the account page. In step the account management web server that hosts the account management website queries the device database for a current wireless speed setting of the wireless device associated with the user. In step the account management web server generates a response back to the web browser on the computing device such that a setting in an overlay or web page such as the web page displayed by the web browser shows the current wireless speed setting for the wireless device . The overlay may provide for example the screen layout as shown in or C for adjusting the wireless speed setting of the wireless device .

In step the web browser running on the computing device receives input from the user that indicates a desire to change the current wireless speed setting for the wireless device to another wireless speed setting. For example the wireless speed setting may be changed from LightSpeed to WarpSpeed using the sliding element of the slider on the web page . In step the account management web server receives a request from the web browser to change the wireless speed for the wireless device to the newly selected wireless speed setting. In step the account management web server inserts a new change item into the device queue where the item indicates that it is a speed change request for the wireless device and also indicates the new wireless speed that is being requested for the wireless device . In step the account management web server returns information to the web browser indicating that the request for the change in the wireless speed for the wireless device was successfully submitted.

In step the wireless provisioning server periodically runs a wireless provisioning job that queries unprocessed item entries from the device queue and for each entry performs one or more necessary actions before marking the entry completed. The wireless provisioning job may run for example every N minutes on the wireless provisioning server where N is a preset value. In step the wireless provisioning job running on the wireless provisioning server picks up from the device queue the newly added item requesting the wireless speed change for the wireless device . In step the wireless provisioning job contacts the API server of the wireless network provider over the network and requests that an offer that the wireless device is currently provisioned for be changed to an offer that has the newly requested wireless speed setting.

In step it is determined by the wireless provisioning job running on the wireless provisioning server whether the sending of the request to the API server failed or succeeded. If it is determined in step that the request failed then in step the wireless provisioning job goes to the next unprocessed item in the device queue . If it is determined in step that the request succeeded then in step the wireless provisioning job marks the item as in progress in the device queue .

In step the API servers such as the API server of the wireless network provider take requests coming in from partners wireless provisioning servers such as the wireless provisioning server and make the requested changes after doing validity permissions checks in the device database of the wireless network provider . In step one or more global policy servers such as the global policy server of the wireless network provider update device information and the associated offer and its settings including the wireless speed setting for the wireless device based on information from the device database . In step the one or more global policy servers such as the global policy server replicate policy information including the wireless speed setting for the wireless device to one or more per market wireless area policy servers such as the market policy server such that the user s change to the wireless speed setting for the wireless device is put into effect. Then when the wireless device is used by the user to communicate with the base station the new wireless speed settings are used to dictate the download and upload speeds.

In step the wireless provisioning job running on the wireless provisioning server checks all in progress items each time it queries the device queue and when it gets to the wireless speed change request that is marked in progress it contacts the API server of the wireless network provider and requests the status of the requested change. If the returned status indicates that the request is not complete then the wireless provisioning job skips to the next not fully processed entry from the device queue . In step if the returned status to the wireless provisioning job from the API server indicates that the request has been completed then the wireless provisioning job marks the item completed in the device queue . The account management web server may then send a notification to the computing device to notify the user that the change has been successfully completed.

In various embodiments the server sends the information for displaying the interface over the network to a web browser when the web browser requests a web page with the interface from an account management website hosted by the server. Also in various embodiments the server allows a user to log into the account management website using a username and password. In some embodiments the web browser runs on an end user computer that connects to the network using either a wireless or a wired connection. In some embodiments the web browser runs on the wireless device for which the speed setting is to take effect.

In various embodiments the account management website allows for a user to view data usage for the wireless device and to view a billing history for usage of the wireless device and to manage a user profile. In some embodiments the web browser accesses the interface when a link identifying the web page with the interface is selected in the web browser. Also in some embodiments the interface allows a user to change the wireless speed setting for the wireless device and to request the server to save the change of the wireless speed setting.

In various embodiments the interface displays two or more possible wireless speed settings for the wireless device for selection by a user. Also in various embodiments the interface provides a slider or other user interface i.e. radio buttons toggle drop down list link text box and or the like for changing between at least two different possible settings for the wireless speed setting for the wireless device. In some embodiments an initial wireless speed setting is provided as a default setting in the interface and is determined based on a wireless data plan purchased for the wireless device. Also in some embodiments if the wireless data plan is subsequently upgraded or downgraded to a new wireless data plan the wireless speed setting for the wireless device is changed to a wireless speed setting specified for the new wireless data plan regardless of an existing setting for the wireless speed setting.

In various embodiments the wireless speed setting for the wireless device is changeable at any time and is changeable any number of times. In some embodiments the interface allows for changing the wireless speed setting for the wireless device to a setting that limits a download speed and an upload speed of a wireless connection between the wireless device and a base station. Also in some embodiments the interface allows for changing the wireless speed setting for the wireless device to a setting in which a download speed and an upload speed of a wireless connection between the wireless device and a base station are limited only by wireless network provider factors location factors and environmental factors at a current location of the wireless device.

In step the server receives over the network a selected wireless speed setting input into the interface for the wireless speed setting for the wireless device. The method may then include sending to a computer of a wireless network provider a request to change the wireless speed setting for the wireless device to the selected wireless speed setting received by the server. The sending may be initiated and performed for example as described in some of the following steps. In step the server inserts into a device queue such as the device queue an item that indicates a speed change request and a requested speed specified by the selected wireless speed setting. In step the server returns to the web browser a web page indicating a successful saving of a change of the wireless speed setting after the inserting of the item into the device queue.

In step a wireless provisioning job periodically runs on a wireless provisioning server such as the wireless provisioning server to query for unprocessed items that have been entered into the device queue. In step the wireless provisioning job running on the wireless provisioning server performs for each item of the unprocessed items one or more actions for the item and marks an entry corresponding to the item to specify completion once all actions for the item have been performed. In step the wireless provisioning server contacts upon picking up an item from the device queue requesting a speed change for the wireless device the computer of the wireless network provider to request that an offer the device is currently provisioned with be changed to another offer that has the newly requested wireless speed setting.

In various embodiments the computer of the wireless network provider is an API server such as the API server . In some embodiments each offer of a plurality of offers supported by the wireless network provider has attributes including a maximum upload speed and a maximum download speed. Also in some embodiments each offer has an associated identification number for specifying a request for the offer.

In step the wireless provisioning server processes a next unprocessed item in the device queue if the contacting of the computer of the wireless network provider results in a failure. In step the wireless provisioning server marks in the device queue the item as being in progress if the contacting of the computer of the wireless network provider succeeds. In step the computer of the wireless network provider receives the request to change the wireless speed setting for the wireless device to the selected wireless speed setting. In step the computer of the wireless network provider checks whether the selected wireless speed setting satisfies one or more validity or permissions checks. In various embodiments the computer of the wireless network provider changes the wireless speed setting of the wireless device to the selected wireless speed setting if the one or more validity or permissions checks are satisfied.

In step a change is made in a device database such as the device database of the wireless network provider to change the wireless speed setting for the wireless device to the selected wireless speed setting if the request for the selected wireless speed setting satisfies the one or more validity or permissions checks. In step a policy for the device is updated in a global policy server such as the global policy server based on information associated with the wireless device in the device database of the wireless network provider. In step the policy for the device from the global policy server is replicated to one or more pre market or wireless area policy servers such as the market policy server to put into effect the change of the wireless speed setting for the wireless device. Communications between the device and a base station such as the base station of the wireless network provider are then governed by the newly set wireless speed setting.

In step the wireless provisioning server periodically checks for items marked as in progress in the device queue. In step the wireless provisioning server contacts for each of the items marked as in progress in the device queue the computer of the wireless network provider to request a status for the requested speed change specified by the item. In step the wireless provisioning server marks for each item in the device queue the item as completed after the changes specified by the item have been completed. The user may be notified of a successful change in the wireless speed setting once the wireless network provider has completed the change to the wireless speed setting for the wireless device.

A non transitory computer readable storage medium in accordance with an embodiment stores one or more computer programs that when executed on one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform a process. In various embodiments the process includes i sending over a network information for displaying an interface to allow a user to change a wireless speed setting for a device ii receiving over the network a selected wireless speed setting input into the interface for the wireless speed setting for the device and iii sending to a computer of a wireless network provider a request to change the wireless speed setting for the device to the selected wireless speed setting received over the network.

A system in accordance with an embodiment includes a server. In various embodiments the server is configured to i send over a network information for displaying an interface to allow a user to change a wireless speed setting for a device ii receive over the network a selected wireless speed setting input into the interface for the wireless speed setting for the device and iii send to a computer of a wireless network provider a request to change the wireless speed setting for the device to the selected wireless speed setting received by the server.

In step one or more servers of the account management system such as the account management web server or the wireless provisioning server determine from the information about the billing cycle how much time is remaining until a billing period will end for the user. The one or more servers may determine the current date and determine based on the agreement with the customer the total number of days between the current date and the end of the billing cycle. The one or more servers may also be configured to determine the average amount of data used on a daily basis during the last billing cycle. For example if the user used 200 Megabytes in the last 20 days of the current billing cycle then the user used an average of 20 Megabytes per day. The user may have 10 days remaining in the billing cycle with an allotment of 300 Megabytes total. In this example the user has 100 Megabytes remaining in the billing cycle allotment with 10 days left in the billing cycle. In this example the user s data usage average on a per day basis needs to change to 10 Megabytes per day. One way of changing the user s data usage would be to slow the user s data usage by changing the wireless speed setting.

At step a server of the account management system such as the account management web server or the wireless provisioning server send to the API server of the wireless network provider a request to change the wireless speed setting for the wireless device to a particular wireless speed setting that is selected based at least partially on the time remaining until the billing period will end for the user and or the remaining wireless allotment. The wireless network provider may then adjust the wireless speed setting for the device as discussed above in the embodiments of . In one embodiment the account management system may initially request the wireless network provider to change the user s speed to be half of the user s speed prior to changing the user s speed based on the time remaining until the billing period ends. In the next day the account management system may determine the user s data usage after initiating a change in speed. In one embodiment if the user s data usage is greater than the calculated average per day usage for the remainder of the billing period then the account management system may request the wireless network provider to reduce the wireless speed setting again. The account management system may continue requesting the wireless network provider to reduce the wireless speed setting until the user s data usage is equal to or less than the calculated usage per day to not go over the data usage allotment for the billing period. Alternatively the account management system may request the wireless network provider to increase the wireless speed setting incrementally when the data usage on a daily basis is below the calculated average for each day based on the total allotment for the billing period.

In step a server of the wireless network provider such as the API server performs deep packet inspection on one or more packets destined for the wireless device to determine a source website for each packet. One example of deep packet inspection may include determining the provider of the packet. In order to determine the packet provider the header of the packet may be analyzed to ascertain an Internet Protocol IP address. In some embodiments a Doman Name Server DNS service may determine the URL that is assigned to the determined IP address. In step the wireless speed setting may be reduced to reduce a rate at which packets originating from source websites that are to be throttled are forwarded to the wireless device . For example API server may control the base station to reduce the wireless speed setting at which data is transmitted to the wireless device .

In other embodiments the wireless speed setting for the wireless device is set to be higher when the type of wireless technology used for a wireless connection is Wi Fi than when the type of wireless technology used for the wireless connection is cellular. In some embodiments a type of wireless technology that the wireless device is using for a wireless connection may be determined. The wireless speed setting for the wireless device may then be set based at least partially on the type of wireless technology that the wireless device is using for the wireless connection. In various embodiments an amount of data usage by the wireless device is monitored within a billing cycle and a request is sent from a computer of the account management system to a computer of the wireless network provider to change the wireless speed setting for the wireless device to a particular wireless speed setting that is selected based at least partially on the amount of data that has been used by the device within the billing cycle.

In some embodiments the account management web server or other device rewards the user with points based upon completion of one or more predefined actions by the user. The account management web server may then allow the user to redeem the points to increase the wireless speed setting for the wireless device . In some embodiments the account management web server may allow the user to use the points to increase a wireless speed setting of another device of another user. For example the account management web server may receive a request from a user to redeem points to increase a wireless speed of a device and the account management web server may then send a request to the API server of the wireless network provider to have the wireless network provider increase the wireless speed setting for the device.

The computing system includes a bus or other communication component for communicating information and a processor coupled to the bus for processing information. The computing system also includes main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . Main memory can also be used for storing position information temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by the processor . The computing system may further include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor . A storage device such as a non transitory solid state device magnetic disk or optical disk is coupled to the bus for persistently storing information and instructions.

The computing system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a liquid crystal display or active matrix display for displaying information to a user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys may be coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . In another implementation the input device includes a touch screen display. The input device can also include a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

In some implementations the computing system may include a communications adapter such as a networking adapter. Communications adapter may be coupled to bus and may be configured to enable communications with a computing or communications network and or other computing systems. In various illustrative implementations any type of networking configuration may be achieved using communications adapter such as wired e.g. via Ethernet wireless e.g. via Wi Fi Bluetooth WiMAX 4G LTE etc. pre configured ad hoc LAN WAN etc.

According to various implementations various processes that effectuate illustrative implementations can be achieved using computing systems such as the computing system . The processor can execute an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the computing system to perform processes. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative implementations hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement illustrative implementations. Thus implementations are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although an example processing system has been described in implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be carried out using other types of digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them.

Various implementations can be carried out using digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Various implementations can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on one or more non transitory computer storage mediums for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatuses. A computer storage medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices . Accordingly a computer storage medium is tangible.

Various operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources.

The term data processing apparatus or computing device encompasses all kinds of apparatuses devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. An apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . An apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for a computer program e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one website or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatuses can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. A processor and a memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user various implementations can be carried out using a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Various implementations can be carried out using computing systems that include a back end component e.g. as a data server or that include a middleware component e.g. an application server or that include a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a web browser or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

Computing systems can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some implementations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any inventions or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be carried out in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be carried out in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that various described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

