---

title: System and method for group participation in a digital media presentation
abstract: System and method for group participation in a digital media presentation are provided that are capable of selecting digital media items for inclusion in the presentation from multiple participant's accounts thereby creating a group presentation in which digital media items of each participant are included in the presentation. Selections of digital media items for inclusion in the presentation can be made directly at the direction of the participations or inferentially according to a selection algorithm. Selections can be made during the presentation thereby allowing a participant to join the presentation after it has started and contribute digital media items to the presentation while it is running.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09398057&OS=09398057&RS=09398057
owner: Dropbox, Inc.
number: 09398057
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130604
---
This disclosure generally relates to digital media presentation applications and more specifically to group use of a network based digital media presentation application by multiple participants.

Conventional digital media presentation applications may be used to present digital media. For example a photo slideshow application may present a series of digital images on a video display perhaps set or choreographed to music. Some presentation applications are used in a stand alone environment for example on a user s personal computer. Other presentation applications may be shared on a network with multiple users. Many digital media presentations created by conventional digital media presentation applications are fixed in that the digital media items included in the presentation must be selected before the presentation begins. Such applications do not allow new digital media items to be added to the presentation while it is running.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

A digital media presentation application is disclosed herein that allows multiple users to participate in a digital media presentation. The presentation application is executed in a distributed networked computing environment and is capable of supporting group participation in the presentation in which each participant in the group can individually provide digital media content for the presentation using their personal computing devices. User participation in the presentation including providing digital media content for the presentation may occur after the presentation has started and while the presentation is running.

In one aspect a method for group participation in a digital media presentation includes receiving a first network request from a personal computing device of a first user to participate in the digital media presentation. A second network request from a personal computing device of a second user to participate in the digital media presentation is also received. One or more digital media items associated with an account of the first user and one or more digital media items associated with an account of the second user are selected by the method for inclusion in the digital media presentation.

In another aspect a system for group participation in a digital media presentation includes one or more servers communicatively coupled to a plurality of clients by one or more data networks. The plurality of clients includes a personal computing device of a first user and a personal computing device of a second user. The one or more servers include a presentation server module configured to receive a first network request from the personal computing device of the first user to participate in the digital media presentation. The presentation server module is further configured to receive a second network request from the personal computing device of the second user to participate in the digital media presentation. The presentation server module is also configured to select one or more digital media items associated with an account of the first user one or more digital media items associated with an account of the second user for inclusion in the digital media presentation.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Aspects of the invention relate to a digital media presentation application which may be used in an online networked environment for group participation in a digital media presentation. The presentation may be made to the participants at a physically remote location from the presentation application. For example the presentation may be made on a television in a participant s home and the presentation application may be hosted in an Internet connected data center or other network connected hosting facility located remotely from the participant s home. Participants may control the presentation from their personal computing devices by sending network requests to the presentation application. Such control can include joining an existing presentation and selecting digital media items for inclusion in the presentation. The presentation application coordinates the presentation including responding to participant s network requests selecting digital media items for inclusion the presentation and causing the selected digital media items to be presented. The presentation application can select digital media items for inclusion in the presentation directly at the direction of the participants or automatically according to an inferential selection algorithm. Participants may control the presentation after the presentation has started and while the presentation is running. In particular a participant may join an already started presentation and add digital content items to the running presentation.

As used herein the term digital media presentation or just presentation refers to any electronic presentation of digital media appropriate for the type of digital media which can be varied. Typically the type of digital media will be visual only e.g. text animation video images graphics aural only e.g. music or speech or both visual and aural e.g. movies or other audiovisual programs musical slideshows or other combination of visual and aural digital media . An appropriate presentation for visual digital media could be for example displaying the visual digital media on a video display. An appropriate presentation for aural digital media could be for example outputting the aural digital media from a speaker. An appropriate presentation for visual and aural digital media could be displaying the visual portion of the digital media on a video display while simultaneously outputting the aural portion of the digital media from a speaker or speakers.

Although the following disclosure is discussed primarily in the context of group digital image slideshow presentation software one of skill in the art will understand that the features and concepts described herein may be applied to other digital media types including for example digital video digital audio text documents spreadsheet documents slide deck presentation documents and other digital media types.

In one exemplary embodiment each of clients and media presentation system connect to the same wireless network such as an IEEE 801.11b g n wireless network. For example the wireless network may be provided by a wireless hub or router in a home or office. The wireless network in turn is connected to the Internet by an Internet Service Provider ISP such as a cable operator or phone company. In the exemplary embodiment the servers and content item repository are connected to the Internet by a data center or co location provider in which the servers and content item repository are housed. Thus in this exemplary embodiment clients communicate with servers and media presentation system communicates with servers and content item repository via the Internet. Network communication over network may be made according to any number of network communication protocols depending on the requirements of the implementation at hand including for example the User Datagram Protocol UDP the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and the Secure HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTPS .

Media presentation system includes electronic components for presenting the digital media included in the presentation. For example media presentation system may include a video display and or a speaker s .

In addition media presentation system includes presentation client application . In one embodiment presentation client application is a software program such as JAVA program for example and media presentation system includes general purpose hardware and software computer components for executing the software program such as processor s CPU s memory a hardware bus and an operating system. While presentation client application may be implemented in software presentation client application can instead be implemented in hardware or in a combination of hardware and software.

Media presentation system may include an Application Programming Interface API or other interface enabling presentation client application to present digital media at media presentation system . In some embodiments media presentation system is a smart television device also referred to as a connected television or hybrid television or set top device e.g. a game console BLU RAY player hotel television system or other device that integrates media presentation capabilities data processing capabilities and network connectivity capabilities. In these embodiments presentation client application may be developed according to a software development kit SDK and or a native development kit NDK for developing third party applications for a smart television a set top device or other networked computing platform. In other embodiments media presentation system is a personal computing device such as a desktop computer a workstation computer or a laptop computer.

Participants use their personal computing devices referred to hereinafter as clients or client devices A to participant in a group media presentation. As used herein the term participant refers to a human user that participates in a group media presentation. In some embodiments clients are portable computing devices such as mobile phones tablet computers personal data assistants laptop computers or other mobile device. In other embodiments clients are stationary computing device such as desktop computers and workstation computers. Clients can also include a mix of portable computing devices and stationary computing devices.

Participants use a participant client application installed on their clients to participate in a group presentation presented at media presentation system . Participant client application may provide a graphical user interface or other user interface to facilitate such participation. In some embodiments participant client application is a mobile application developed for a particular mobile computing platform such as APPLE IOS ANDROID or BLACKBERRY OS. In other embodiments participant client application is a web browser such as INTERNET EXPLORER FIREFOX OPERA CHROME or SAFARI. Some or all of the instructions implementing participant client application may be delivered by server to clients over network for execution at clients . Such instructions may include for example HyperText Markup Language HTML instructions Cascading Style Sheet CSS instructions JAVASCRIPT or other types of software instructions. Different clients may execute different forms of participant client application . For example some clients may execute a web browser based form of participant client application while other clients may execute a mobile application based form of participant client application .

Server hosts presentation server module . Presentation server module includes instructions or sets of instructions facilitating a group media presentation at media presentation system . Such facilitating may include receiving and responding to network request commands from clients over network connections . Such facilitating may include receiving media presentation information from media presentation system over network connection and sending media presentation information to media presentation system over network connection . Such facilitating may also include selecting digital media items for inclusion in a group media presentation at media presentation system based on data stored in account database . Although presentation server module is illustrated in as being hosted on one server presentation server module can be distributed across multiple servers according to the requirements of particular implement at hand.

Digital media items presented as part of a group media presentation at media presentation system may be stored in content item repository . Media presentation may download digital media items to be presented from content item repository over network connection . In one embodiment digital media items may be downloaded from content item repository at corresponding Uniform Resource Locators URLs in which each such URL uniquely identifies a digital media item in content item repository . Presentation client application on media presentation system may receive URLs representing digital media items selected for inclusion in a group media presentation from presentation server module on server over network connection .

Digital media items stored in and downloaded from content item repository can take a wide variety of different media formats. Such media formats may include but are not limited to digital image formats e.g. TIFF PNG GIF JPG RAW BMP PSD PSP etc. digital audio formats e.g. MP3 digital video formats e.g. MPEG 2 MPEG 4 transport stream formats e.g. MPEG TS and digital documents formats e.g. .DOC .XLS .PDF .TXT .

Although illustrated separately in server and content item repository may be controlled and operated by the same entity such as the same business organization or company. In other embodiments however server is controlled and operated by a different entity than the entity that controls and operates content item repository . In both cases account database may store URLs or other digital media item location identifiers that refer to and identify digital media items stored in content item repository . In scenarios where content item repository and server are controlled and operated by different entities there may be a business agreement in place between the two entities allowing the entity that controls and operates server to send URLs or other digital media item location identifiers to media presentation system by which media presentation system can download digital media items from content item repository .

As mentioned presentation server module selects digital media items for inclusion in a group media presentation at media presentation system based on data stored in account database . Such selection can be at the explicit direction of a participant. For example the participant may use participant client application to select particular digital media items associated with the participant s account in account database to include or not include in the group media presentation. Selection can also be inferential in which presentation server module automatically and inferentially selects digital media items for inclusion in the group presentation based on inferential selection metadata stored in account database . Inferential selection can be implemented to provide a fire and forget mode of operation. For example presentation server module can inferentially select digital image media items e.g. photos associated with multiple participant s accounts to automatically create a group photo slideshow presented at media presentation system .

An account record may be associated with one or more digital media item records . A digital media item record may correspond to a digital media item stored in content item repository . A digital media item record may contain location information identifying the location of the corresponding digital media item in content item repository . The location information may be submitted by media presentation system to content item repository in a network request over network connection for purposes of downloading the corresponding digital media item to media presentation system . In some embodiments the location information is a URL for the corresponding digital media item which may be submitted to content item repository in a network request. In other embodiments the location information is information that may be included in a URL formulated by presentation server module or presentation client application and then submitted to content item repository in a network request.

A digital media item record may be associated with more than one account record . For example a digital media item record may be associated with multiple account records if multiple users have shared access to or shared management of the corresponding digital media item . As another example a digital media item record may be associated with multiple account records if multiples users are known to appear in or be related to the corresponding digital media item .

A digital media item record may be associated with inferential selection metadata . Presentation server module may process inferential selection metadata associated with the digital media item records associated with an account record of a participant for purposes of inferentially selecting digital media items to include in a group media presentation in which the participant is participating.

Inferential selection metadata for a digital media item record can include a wide variety of information on which inferential selection of the corresponding digital media item can be based. In some embodiments inferential selection metadata includes any combination of access descriptors privacy descriptors and content descriptors.

Access descriptors are information that represents when how often and by whom the corresponding digital media item has been accessed. Access in this context includes downloading the corresponding digital media item or a portion thereof from content item repository e.g. to view in a web browser or store at a client device . The access descriptors may be generated based on network access logs or other historical access information collected based on network access to digital media items at content item repository . The access descriptors can include the raw access log information such as data from access log entries or summaries of raw access log information. Some possible access descriptors that may be useful for making inferential selection decisions about the corresponding digital media item for inclusion in a given group media presentation include but are not limited to 

Privacy descriptors are information that represents any access control on the corresponding digital media item . Privacy descriptors may indicate who has access to the corresponding digital media item and in particular which participants in a given group media presentation have access to the corresponding digital media item . Privacy descriptors may indicate general access categories for the corresponding digital media item such as public or private . Privacy descriptors may include specific access control information related to presentation in group media presentations generally. The specific access control information can represent group media presentation policies such as do not include the corresponding digital media item in any group media presentation or do not include the corresponding digital media item in a group media presentation in which not all users associated with the corresponding digital media item by their account records are participants in the group media presentation .

Content descriptors are information that represents the content of the corresponding digital media item . Content descriptors can include a wide variety of different content information about the corresponding digital media item including but not limited to 

Initially at step presentation client application establishes network connection with server . For example presentation client application may connect to server according to the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . Network connection may be long lived for example for at least the duration of a presentation at media presentation system which may span minutes hours days or more. During the course of a presentation network connection may be used by presentation server module to deliver information about digital media items included in the presentation. Such information may include among other things download information for downloading digital media items from content item repository and presentation information such as for example how long to present included digital media items and the order in which to present included digital media items . While in some embodiments network communication between presentation client application and server is accomplished using a connection oriented networking protocol such as TCP IP network communication between presentation client application and server is accomplished using a connectionless networking protocol such as the User Datagram Protocol UDP in other embodiments.

At step presentation client application establishes a presentation session with presentation server module. Generally a presentation session is information that may be used by presentation client application presentation server module and participant client application to identify a particular active presentation. Presentation server module may conduct multiple presentation sessions at the same time with multiple media presentation systems . To distinguish between multiple active presentations each presentation may be associated with a unique presentation identifier unique at least among the identifiers assigned to the multiple presentations being conducted . The presentation identifier may be a numeric or alphanumeric sequence for example. Preferably for security purposes the presentation identifier should be difficult to guess. For example the presentation identifier may be a truly randomly generated or pseudo randomly generated alphanumeric sequence of a predetermined length. The presentation identifier can be assigned by presentation client application and then sent to presentation server module via connection . Alternatively presentation server module can assign the presentation identifier and send it to presentation client application via connection .

Other information pertaining to capabilities and characteristics of media presentation system may be communicated over connection when establishing the presentation session. For example such other information may include media presentation capabilities such as screen size screen resolution available media decoders or any other information that indicates the type of digital media items that can be presented at media presentation system or how digital media items can be presented at media presentation system .

At step presentation client application presents the presentation identifier at media presentation system . Such presentation is made so that a participant can obtain the presentation identifier and communicate it to presentation server module using his or her client for purposes of binding to and participating in the presentation session that the presentation identifier identifies.

In some embodiments presentation of the presentation identifier is made visually so that participant can read the presentation identifier and input into his or her client device . For example the sequence of characters that make up the presentation identifier can be displayed on a video display so that a participant can enter the sequence of characters into his client using a keyboard or soft keypad.

In other embodiments presentation of the presentation identifier is made visually so that it can be detected by participant client application on client . For example participant client application can present the sequence of characters that make up the presentation identifier as a QR code a matrix barcode or other two dimension bar code that can be detected as a 2 dimension digital image by an image sensor e.g. a cell phone camera of a client . The presentation client application can process the captured digital image to determine the presentation identifier. Alternatively the presentation client application can send the captured digital image to presentation server module for processing. For more information on QR codes generally refer to the web page at wiki QR code in the Internet domain en.wikipedia.org the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Steps and may be performed by presentation client application repeatedly. For example steps and may be performed in a loop. In addition or alternatively two or more of steps and may be performed concurrently with one another.

At step presentation client application receives media representation information from presentation server module . Media presentation information may include digital media identifying information and or presentation control information.

Digital media identifying information includes information that identifies digital media items in content item repository that are included in the current presentation at media presentation system . Digital media identifying information for an included digital media item may include information that can be submitted to content item repository over network connection for purposes of downloading the included digital media item to media presentation system . For example digital media identifying information for an included digital media item may be a URL for the included digital media item or a sequence of characters or sets of character sequences that can be included in a network request of content item repository to identify the requested digital media item to content item repository for download.

Reference is made herein to downloading digital media items from content item repository to media presentation system . In this context the term downloading or download includes both a receiving a digital media item from content item repository and storing the received digital media item at media presentation system for presentation after the entire digital media item has been received and stored and b receiving a digital item media item from content item repository and presenting the digital media item as it is being received also known as streaming . Streaming a digital media item from content item repository may include storing some or all of the digital media item at media presentation system .

Presentation control information includes information that specifies how the included digital media items are to be presented at media presentation system . Presentation control information may include such information as the order in which included digital media items are to be presented e.g. ordering information how long included digital media items are to be presented e.g. presentation timing information transition effects that presentation client application is to apply and present for aesthetic transitioning between presentation of successive digital media items and any other information used by presentation client application for controlling the presentation of the included digital media items at media presentation system . Transition effects include but are not limited to animated transition effects for visual digital media items such as blinds transition e.g. dividing presentation of the current digital media item into horizontally or vertically oriented strips and simultaneously revealing strips of the next digital media item box transition e.g. moving presentation of next digital media item into final display location with zoom effect checkerboard transition e.g. dividing presentation of the current digital media item into boxes and simultaneously revealing boxes of the next digital media item dissolve transition e.g. dividing presentation of current digital media item into dots that visually dissolve to reveal presentation of next digital media item wipe transition e.g. presentation of next digital media item is revealed in a vertical or horizontal direction or other visual transition effect. If the successive digital media items are audio only then the transition effects could include a fade out fade in a crossfade or other audible transition effect.

It should be noted that presentation client application can begin presenting included digital media items before all digital media items included in the presentation have been download from content item repository . In other words step may performed concurrently with step . For example presentation client application can present already downloaded digital media items while it is downloading other digital media items . Similarly presentation client application can begin presenting included digital media items before media presentation information for all digital media items included in the presentation have been received from presentation server module . In other words step may be performed concurrently with step . For example presentation client application can present already downloaded digital media items while it is receiving media presentation information for other digital media items from presentation server module . Thus presentation client application is not required to receive media presentation information for all included digital media items or required to download all included digital media items before presentation client application begins presenting included digital media items .

After receiving media presentation information for an included digital media item the included digital media item is downloaded from content item repository at step . After the included digital media item is download or while the included digital media item is being downloaded i.e. streamed the included digital media item is presented at step . Such presentation may be made in accordance with presentation control information received for the included digital media item at step .

At step participant client application on a client of a participant generates and sends a network request to join a presentation to presentation server module over network connection . Multiple participants may each join a group media presentation by sending step a join network request from their respective client devices to presentation server module . The join network request may be made in accordance with the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP of the Secure HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTPS for example. The join network request indicates the presentation identifier of the presentation the participant wishes to join and participate in. While in some embodiments network communication between participant client application and server is accomplished using a connection oriented networking protocol such as TCP IP network communication between participant client application and server is accomplished using a connectionless networking protocol such as the User Datagram Protocol UDP in other embodiments.

Participant client application may send the network request in response to the participant interacting with a user interface of participant client application presented at the participant s client . For example participant client application may send the network response in response to the participant activating a Join Presentation or similarly labeled button or other user interface element. Such activation may be made by a mouse click or a touch gesture for example.

Alternatively participant client application may send the network request automatically in response to detecting conditions that indicate that the participant would like to participate in the presentation. For example participant client application may offer a join when near configuration setting which when activated will cause the participant client application to attempt to automatically join a group media presentation when the participant s client device is physically near a media presentation system presenting the group media presentation. Detecting when the participant s client is near the media presentation system can be based on geographical or physical location information about the participant s client device available to the participant client application . For example nearness detection can be based on Global Positioning System GPS satellite information provided to participant client application by a GPS module of the participant s client device .

In some embodiments the participant s client device is considered to be near the media presentation system if the participant s client device is near e.g. within 100 feet of another participant s client device that has already joined the group media presentation. For this both participants client devices may periodically send physical or geographical location information about the devices to presentation server module over network connections . By doing so presentation server module can detect when a client device that has not yet joined a group media presentation is likely near the media presentation system presenting the group media presentation by detecting when the client device of the not yet joined participant is physically near the client device of a participant who has joined the group media presentation. In response to detecting this presentation server module can send a notification or message to the client device of the non yet joined participant containing information about the nearby group media presentation. Such information may include the presentation identifier among other information such as who has currently joined the presentation. Depending on configuration settings for the participant client application on the client device of the not yet joined participant the participant client application may automatically send a join network request to presentation server module to join the group media presentation or do so after receiving confirmation to join the group media presentation from the not yet joined participant. Such confirmation may be provided through a user interface presented at the client device of the not yet joined participant. For example a pop up notification task bar message or other notification or message may be displayed at the client device of the not yet joined participant asking if he or she wants to join the group media presentation. In response to receiving confirmation the participant client application sends the join network request to presentation server module .

In addition to receiving the presentation identifier of a group media presentation from presentation server module a participant client application can obtain the presentation identifier of a group media presentation in other ways. Once obtained the presentation client application can send the join network request specifying the obtained presentation identifier. In some embodiments the presentation identifier is provided to participant client application by the participant. For example the participant may read the presentation identifier as presented by media presentation system and then provide the presentation identifier to participant client application whereupon participant client application sends the presentation identifier in a join network request to presentation server module . For example the presentation identifier may be displayed on a video display or audibly output from a speaker of media presentation system . The participant may then enter the presentation identifier as input to participant client application for example by entering the characters of the presentation identifier using a hard keyboard or soft keyboard associated with client device . Alternatively participant client application can detect the presentation identifier as presented by media presentation system . For example an image sensor of the participant s client device can capture an image of a QR code visually presented by presentation client application at media presentation system . The QR code can encode the presentation identifier.

After a participant has joined a media presentation by sending a join network request step the participant can send one or more presentation command network requests from their client device as represented by step in . The participant can send a variety of different presentation commands including a media selection command.

A media selection command is made to specify to presentation server module how digital media item selections are to be made among the digital media items associated with the account of the participant making the request. In some embodiments a media selection command specifies either a a particular digital media item associated with the participant s account that the participant wants to include in or exclude from the media presentation or b that presentation server module should automatically select digital media items associated with the participant s account for inclusion in the media presentation. Both types of media selection commands can be made by the same participant during the same media presentation. For example a participant make select one or more particular digital media items to be included in or excluded from the media presentation and then select an automatic media selection feature to have presentation server module select other digital media items for inclusion in the media presentation. When making the automatic selections the presentation server module may honor any digital media items that the participant selected to be excluded from the media presentation by not selecting the excluded digital media items for inclusion in the media presentation.

Media selection commands may be made by the participant through a user interface presented at the participant s client device . For example the user interface may allow the participant to browse the digital media items associated with the participant s account. As the participant is browsing the participant can select individual digital media items or groups of digital media items to include in or exclude from the media presentation. For example the browsing user interface may present selectable thumbnail images icons or other user interface elements that the participant can interact with for example by clicking or double clicking on with a mouse or other pointing device or with a touch gesture as appropriate. User interface selections result in participant client application sending network requests over network connection containing media selection commands reflecting the user interface selections.

At step presentation server module establishes a presentation session with a media presentation system . Such establishment may involve establishing network connection between server and media presentation server . Such establishment may also include assignment of a presentation identifier to the presentation.

At step presentation server module receives a network request from a participant s client device to join a presentation. The network request may include the presentation identifier of the presentation the participant wishes to join. Upon receiving the join network request present server module may create metadata associating an account record of the participant with the presentation identifier for example in account database or other computer memory.

At step presentation server module receives a network request from a participant s client device including a presentation command. The presentation command can specify a particular digital media item associated with the participant s account record through a digital media item record . The command may be to include the particular digital media item in the presentation or to exclude the particular digital media item from the presentation. Alternatively instead of specifying a particular digital media item to include or exclude the presentation command can request the presentation server module to automatically select digital media items associated with the participant s account record through digital media item records for inclusion in a group media presentation. The group media presentation may be identified in the request by its presentation identifier.

At step in response to receiving the network request at step presentation server module makes a selection of a digital media item associated with the account of the participant that made the request at step . Step may be performed multiple times in response to receiving the network request at step . For example step may be performed multiple times if presentation server module is making automatic digital media item selections or if the network request at step specifies multiple digital media items selected by the participant.

If the request at step explicitly specifies digital media items to be included in the digital media presentation then presentation server module reads network location information for the specified digital media items from the corresponding digital media item records in account database . This network location information will be sent to media presentation system .

If presentation server module is requested to make automatic digital media selections by the request received at step then presentation server module processes the digital media item records and associated inferential selection metadata associated with the participant s account record . In particular presentation server module applies an inferential selection algorithm in an attempt to infer which of the digital media items associated with the participant account the participant would select for inclusion in the media presentation. Generally the inferential selection algorithm involves assigning an inclusion score to each digital media item based on a number of inferential selection factors which can be weighted and then selecting some number of the highest scoring digital media items for inclusion in the digital media presentation. The inferential selection factors can be based on a variety of available inferential selection metadata including but not limited to some or all of the following 

After a digital media item is selected at step location information for the selected digital media item is sent to media presentation system over network connection . The location information is information presentation client application can use to download the selected digital media item from content item repository . In addition to location information presentation server module may also send presentation metadata for the selected digital media item such as presentation ordering information presentation length information and or presentation transitioning information. For example the presentation ordering information may specify that the selected digital media item is to be presented next in order after all previously selected digital media items have been presented. This may also be implied by the order in which location information for selected digital media items is sent to media presentation system over network connection . The presentation length information may specify how long the selected digital media item is to be presented. For example if the digital media item is a photo then presentation length information may specify how long the photo is to be presented on the video display at media presentation system . As another example if the digital media item is a video the presentation length information may specify a start time indicating a point in time during the duration of the video that presentation of the video is to begin and also specify an end time or a presentation time length that indicates for how long from the start point the video is to be presented. Presentation transitioning information may specify how presentation client application is to transition the presentation of previously presented digital media item to the selected digital media item for example according to one or more of the transition effects discussed above.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or solid state drive is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical disks magnetic disks or solid state drives such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

