---

title: Enhanced search suggestion for personal information services
abstract: Systems, methods, and software are disclosed herein for implementing enhanced search suggestion technology. In at least one implementation, a personal information application includes a search suggestion element in which both search suggestions and contacts suggestions may be presented. The personal information application includes a search element in a user interface to a personal information service in which a search query may be entered. Search suggestions and contact suggestions can be identified based at least in part on the search query and presented via a suggestion element in the user interface. An indication of interest made with respect to a contact suggestion results in the presentation of contact details for an associated contact. The presentation of at least the search suggestions persists while the contact details of the associated contact are presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514470&OS=09514470&RS=09514470
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09514470
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130516
---
Aspects of the disclosure are related to computing hardware and software technology and in particular to search suggestion in personal information applications.

Personal information services provide users with effective and convenient ways to communicate with others and to manage their personal information. Users typically engage with personal information services through user interfaces provided by associated personal information applications such as email applications calendar applications and task management applications as well as combinations and variations thereof. Some representative personal information applications and services include Microsoft Outlook Outlook Web App OWA Hotmail Gmail and Yahoo Mail as well as others.

When engaged with a personal information service a user may interact with various personal information items via a user interface to the service. Examples of such items include emails contacts calendar items tasks and the like. In a typical scenario a user s personal information items are stored in a personal information database such as a mailbox that is accessed as the user interacts with the application.

Most personal information applications provide users with a search capability for searching their personal information items including as a search element in the user interface through which search queries may be entered as well as various search tools. One example is the automatic suggestion feature that automatically provides query suggestions within a suggestion element as search strings are entered. Such suggestions can include the completion of a partially entered term or even a complex search string that are identified by matching past queries or other information to what is being entered.

In some personal information applications a variety of data types and data stores can be searched from a single search element such as document repositories calendars contacts and tasks to be searched through a primary search box that primarily provides a search interface to email. Accordingly in some cases the auto suggest feature may also include the ability to suggest documents scheduled events contacts tasks and other items that match a complete or partial search string as it is entered. Selecting any of the suggested items completes the query and launches a search for the selected item.

Provided herein are systems methods and software for implementing enhanced search suggestion technology. In at least one implementation a personal information application includes a search suggestion element in which both search suggestions and contacts suggestions may be presented. The personal information application includes a search element in a user interface to a personal information service in which a search query may be entered. Search suggestions and contact suggestions can be identified based at least in part on the search query and presented via a suggestion element in the user interface. An indication of interest made with respect to a contact suggestion results in the presentation of contact details for an associated contact. The presentation of at least the search suggestions persists while the contact details of the associated contact are presented.

This Overview is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Technical Disclosure. It should be understood that this Overview is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Implementations disclosed herein enable enhanced search suggestion technology whereby search suggestions and contact suggestions are presented together in a suggestion element. In response to an indication of interest occurring with respect to one of the contact suggestions the contact details for an associated contact are presented while the search suggestions are persisted in the suggestion element. In this manner a user may view a contact associated with a contact suggestion without the search suggestions or other items presented in the suggestion being removed from view. This enables the user to for example select a particular search suggestion even after having selected a contact suggestion.

In a brief example a personal information application includes a user interface to a personal information service. Examples of personal information services include but are not limited to email services scheduling services and other services that allow users to exchange and organize various types of information. The user interface includes various graphical elements or controls with which a user may interact via interface systems and devices in order to interface with or otherwise access the personal information service. A search element is included such as a search box in which a search query may be entered as well as a suggestion element in which both search suggestions and contacts suggestions may be presented. Examples of suggestion elements include a suggestion box drop down box a pop up box and a list box as well as any other suitable user interface element or control that may be rendered in association with a search element.

The search suggestions and contact suggestions can be identified based at least in part on the search query and presented via the suggestion element in the user interface. Identifying the contact suggestions can be accomplished in a variety of ways such as by searching contacts for at least one contact that satisfies contact criteria. The contact criteria may include for example the search query or some of its characters. In at least one scenario at least some search results associated with the search query are examined including at least one personal information item included in the search results for an identity of at least one person. Various contacts are then searched for at least one contact that satisfies contact criteria. The contact may include for example the identity of the one person. In such a scenario the contact suggestions may be associated with at least the one contact.

An indication of interest made with respect to a contact suggestion results in the presentation of contact details for an associated contact. For example a user may touch click on audibly reference point to or otherwise indicate their interest in or selection of the contact selection. The presentation of the search suggestions persists while associated contact details of the associated contact are presented. The contact details may be presented for example in a contact card or any other details element in an overlaid manner with respect to the suggestion element and while the suggestion element persists. Other arrangements are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

In various implementations the search query and any search may be directed towards a personal information database having information items stored therein. A mailbox is one example of a personal information database in which case emails are examples of information items. Other information items are possible such as calendar events tasks contacts instant chat messages text messages and micro blog posts as well as any other type of personal information item that may be found in a searchable database.

For example in some scenarios an event suggestion may be presented along with the search suggestions and the contact suggestions through the suggestion element in the user interface. In such a scenario the event suggestion may be identified based at least in part on the search query. This can be accomplished by for example examining of at least one personal information item included in any search results associated with the search query for an indication of an event. A group of events can then be searched for at least one scheduled event that satisfies event criteria indicative of the indication of the event.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates various features and functionality that may be experienced through a user interface when an enhanced suggestion process illustrated in is implemented. The enhanced suggestion process may be embodied in software executable by any suitable computing system or collection of systems employing a suitable computing architecture of which computing architecture in is representative. The user interface and its associated features and functionality may be rendered surfaced or otherwise presented and experienced when the software is executed. illustrates a service environment in which a personal information service may be provisioned and delivered while illustrate the user interface and various other operational features and functionality.

In particular illustrates an operational scenario involving a user interface to a personal information service in an implementation. User interface provides an interface through which a user may interact with various aspects of a personal information service. Examples of user interface include graphical user interfaces natural user interfaces web based user interfaces gesture based user interfaces and object oriented user interfaces as well as any other type of user interface combinations or variations thereof.

User interface includes an application bar which may be used to present various tools information features or other aspects of a personal information service. Application bar includes search box in which a user may enter search queries. Search queries entered via search box launch searches of a personal information database associated with the user that contains personal information items. In an example a user may initiate a search through search box of their emails stored in their mailbox. In this scenario user interface includes various information items and various folders merely for illustrative purposes. User interface may include other aspects not discussed herein for purposes of clarity.

User interface may be presented when for example a personal information application or other software associated with the personal information service is executed while the various features and functionality illustrated by operational scenario may be experienced when enhanced suggestion process is implemented in such software. Examples of software in which enhanced suggestion process may be implemented include but are not limited to personal information applications browser applications client side programs and server side programs as well as any other type of software program combination of programs or variations thereof. The execution of any such program or collection of programs by any suitable computing system or systems drives the system or systems to operate as described herein for enhanced suggestion process . Accordingly the following discussion of operational scenario makes reference parenthetically to the steps included in and illustrated with respect to enhanced suggestion process .

In operation a user may interact with user interface to search via search box a personal information database. Other mechanisms for inputting or otherwise initiating a search query are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure. For exemplary purposes it is assumed in operational scenario that the user has entered a search query in search box . The search query is identified step with which the search may performed and search results returned. The search results may include various information items relevant to the search query that are retrieved from the personal information items and possibly other sources.

Either prior to or while some or all of the search results are returned or even before the search commences one or more search suggestions and one or more contact suggestions are identified based on the search query and presented via suggestion box step . In this scenario search suggestions are presented and contact suggestion is presented.

It may be appreciated that a wide variety of well known techniques may be employed to identify the search suggestions and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure. For example the search query or portions thereof may be compared against previous queries to identify search suggestions. In another example at least some search results may be analyzed in order to arrive at the search suggestions. A wide variety of techniques may also be employed to identify the contact suggestions and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure. For example the search query or portions thereof may be compared against the contacts in a contact database to find at least one contact that matches the search query or otherwise satisfies contact criteria derived from the search query. In another example search results may be analyzed for any personal information item that identifies a person the identity of which can then be used to identify a contact suggestion.

Further in operation a user may make an indication of interest with respect to contact suggestion such as by touching click on hovering over audibly referencing or otherwise selecting contact suggestion . In response to the indication of interest an associated contact and its contact details are presented while persisting the presentation of suggestion box and at least its search suggestions step . The contact details may include a variety of information with which to contact the person represented by the associated contact such as a phone number email address social media handle or the like. In some implementations it may be possible to initiate communication from the associated contact such as by selecting a phone call or messaging control displayed therein.

Persisting a search box and search suggestions enables a user to interact with a contact suggestion without losing the advantages provided by the search suggestions. For example a search suggestion may indeed be useful to a user but before selecting it and running the search based on the search suggestion the user may wish to view details of a contact associated with a contact suggestion. The user is now free to view the contact details and even possibly initiate communication with the contact while retaining the ability to return to the search suggestions so as to enjoy their associated benefits. In the past the selection of a suggested contact from a list of suggestions resulted in the presentation of the contact the cessation of the suggestions. In other words the selection of a suggested contact has been treated as an indication that its associated contact should be used as the subject of a search. Here while an associated contact can still be used as the subject of a search it can also be viewed and interacted with while retaining the ability to select a search suggestion to use as the subject of a search. Other advantages are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

At any time a user may proceed with a search using the search query as initially entered. The user may also select one of the search suggestions in response to which a search would be carried out using the search suggestion. Search results would be returned and presented in user interface . It may be appreciated that enhanced suggestion process may also be applicable in other contexts in addition to personal information applications and services. For example enhanced suggestion process and its associated features and functionality may be applied as well to desktop search Internet search and the like.

Variations of enhanced suggestion process are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure. For example other steps in addition to those described may be performed. In addition variations on the steps described herein are possible including initiating a particular function or feature. In an example enhanced suggestion process as discussed herein includes the steps of presenting suggestions and presenting contact details among other steps. A variation of each could include initiating the presentation of suggestions and initiating the presentation of contact details. It may be appreciated that other variations are possible and may be considered within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to computing architecture is representative of an architecture that may be employed in any computing apparatus or system or collections thereof to suitably implement all or portions of enhanced suggestion process or variations thereof and optionally all or portions of the personal information application referred to with respect to . Computing architecture may be employed in for example desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers notebook computers mobile computing devices cell phones media devices and gaming devices as well as any other type of physical or virtual computing machine and any combination or variation thereof. Computing architecture may also be employed in for example server computers cloud computing platforms data centers any physical or virtual computing machine and any variation or combination thereof.

Enhanced suggestion process may be implemented on a single computing system or may be implemented in a distributed manner. The personal information application may also be implemented on a single computing system or may be implemented in a distributed manner. Enhanced suggestion process may be integrated with the personal information application but may also stand alone or be embodied in some other application.

Computing architecture includes processing system storage system software communication interface system and user interface system . Processing system is operatively coupled with storage system communication interface system and user interface system . Processing system loads and executes software from storage system . When executed by processing system software directs processing system or other elements of computing architecture to operate as described herein for enhanced suggestion process or its variations. Computing architecture may optionally include additional devices features or functionality not discussed here for purposes of brevity.

Referring still to processing system may comprise a microprocessor and other circuitry that retrieves and executes software from storage system . Processing system may be implemented within a single processing device but may also be distributed across multiple processing devices or sub systems that cooperate in executing program instructions. Examples of processing system include general purpose central processing units application specific processors systems on a chip and logic devices as well as any other type of processing device combinations or variations.

Storage system may comprise any computer readable storage media readable by processing system and capable of storing software . Storage system may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of storage media include random access memory read only memory magnetic disks optical disks flash memory virtual memory and non virtual memory magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other suitable storage media. In no case is the storage media a propagated signal. In addition to storage media in some implementations storage system may also include computer readable communication media over which software may be communicated internally or externally.

Storage system may be implemented as a single storage device but may also be implemented across multiple storage devices or sub systems co located or distributed relative to each other. Storage system may comprise additional elements such as a controller capable of communicating with processing system or possibly other systems.

Software may be implemented in program instructions and among other functions may when executed by processing system direct processing system or other elements of computing architecture to operate as described herein for enhanced suggestion process . For example the program instructions may when executed by processing system direct processing system to identify a search query identify based on the search query a search suggestion and a contact suggestion initiate presentation of at least the search suggestion and the contact suggestion and in response to an indication of interest made with respect to the contact suggestion initiate presentation of associated contact details while persisting the presentation of the search suggestion.

The program instructions may include various components or modules that cooperate or otherwise interact to carry out enhanced suggestion process . The various components or modules may be embodied in compiled instructions or interpreted instructions or in some other variation of or combination of instructions. The various components or modules may be executed in a synchronous or asynchronous manner in a serial or in parallel in a single threaded environment or multi threaded or in accordance with any other suitable programming and execution paradigm variation or combination thereof.

Software may include additional processes programs or components such as operating system software or other application software. Software may also comprise firmware or some other form of machine readable processing instructions executable by processing system .

In general software may when loaded into processing system and executed transform a suitable apparatus system or device employing computing architecture overall from a general purpose computing system into a special purpose computing system customized to facilitate enhanced search suggestion technology as described herein for each implementation. Indeed encoding software on storage system may transform the physical structure of storage system . The specific transformation of the physical structure may depend on various factors in different implementations of this description. Examples of such factors may include but are not limited to the technology used to implement the storage media of storage system and whether the computer storage media are characterized as primary or secondary storage as well as other factors.

For example if the computer storage media are implemented as semiconductor based memory software may transform the physical state of the semiconductor memory when the program is encoded therein such as by transforming the state of transistors capacitors or other discrete circuit elements constituting the semiconductor memory. A similar transformation may occur with respect to magnetic or optical media. Other transformations of physical media are possible without departing from the scope of the present description with the foregoing examples provided only to facilitate this discussion.

Referring again to through the operation of a suitable computing system implementing enhanced suggestion process transformations may be performed with respect to user interface . As an example user interface could be considered transformed from one state to another when subject to enhanced suggestion process or variations thereof. In a first state user interface includes a search element with a search query entered therein and associated search suggestions and contact suggestions presented in a suggestion element. In response to an indication of interest made with respect to one of the contact suggestions contact details for an associated contact are presented while persisting the suggestion element thereby changing user interface to a second different state.

It should be understood that computing architecture is generally intended to represent an architecture on which software may be deployed and executed in order to implement enhanced suggestion process or variations thereof and optionally all or portions of a personal information application. However computing architecture may also be suitable for any computing system on which software may be staged and from where software may be distributed transported downloaded or otherwise provided to yet another computing system for deployment and execution or yet additional distribution.

Communication interface system may include communication connections and devices that allow for communication with other computing systems over a network or collection of networks. Examples of connections and devices that together allow for inter system communication may include network interface cards antennas power amplifiers RF circuitry transceivers and other communication circuitry. The connections and devices may communicate over communication media to exchange communications with other computing systems or networks of systems such as metal glass air or any other suitable communication media. The aforementioned communication media network connections and devices are well known and need not be discussed at length here.

User interface system may include a mouse a voice input device a touch input device for receiving a touch gesture from a user a motion input device for detecting non touch gestures and other motions by a user and other comparable input devices and associated processing elements capable of receiving user input from a user. Output devices such as a display speakers haptic devices and other types of output devices may also be included in user interface system . In some cases the input and output devices may be combined in a single device such as a display capable of displaying images and receiving touch gestures. The aforementioned user input and output devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

User interface system may include associated user interface software executable by processing system in support of the various user input and output devices discussed above. Separately or in conjunction with each other and other hardware and software elements the user interface software and devices may support a graphical user interface a natural user interface or the like. In operation user interface system is capable of presenting a user interface to a personal information service such as user interface illustrated in . As such a user may interact with a personal information service and associated applications through user interface by way of user interface system .

Examples of application platforms and include but are not limited to desktop computers work stations laptop computers notebook computers tablet computers mobile phones personal digital assistances media devices gaming devices routers and any other physical or virtual computing machine or combinations and variations thereof capable of implementing at least one of a variety of personal information applications. Service platform may be any computing system or collection of computing systems capable of implementing a personal information service while service platform may be any computing system or collection of computing systems capable of implementing a personal information service .

Application platforms and may each be any computing apparatus system device or collections thereof that employ a computing architecture suitable for implementing personal information applications and respectively the execution of which results in the rendering or presentation of user interfaces and respectively. Computing architecture referred to with respect to is one such representative architecture. Personal information applications and may each be any version or variety of personal information application. Examples include but are not limited to locally installed and executed applications streamed applications web based applications that execute at least in part within the context of a browser application mobile applications mobile web based applications that execute at least in part within the context of a mobile browser application or any other application type variation or combination thereof.

User interfaces and may each be any type of software interface that enables a user to interact with a personal information service. The execution of personal information applications and by application platforms and results in the presentation of user interfaces and by way of their respective user interface systems of which user interface system is representative. Examples of user interfaces and include graphical user interfaces natural user interfaces web based user interfaces gesture based user interfaces and object oriented user interfaces as well as any other type of user interface combinations or variations thereof. User interface or variations thereof is representative of user interfaces and .

Personal information applications and may each be embodied in program instructions that when executed by application platforms and respectively direct each to operate as described herein for enhanced suggestion process discussed with respect to . The program instructions may take the form of compiled object code interpreted scripts or any other suitable form of program instructions that may be executed directly or indirectly by an application platform as well as any suitable variation or combination thereof. Examples of personal information applications include but are not limited to Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird Lightening Open Xchange Microsoft Outlook Web App Microsoft Outlook Web App for mobile devices Outlook.com Gmail and Microsoft Outlook for mobile devices as well as another suitable personal information application variation or combination thereof.

Service platform and service platform may each include any computing apparatus system device or collections thereof that employ a computing architecture suitable for implementing personal information service and personal information service respectively. Computing architecture referred to with respect to is one such representative architecture. Examples include server computers cloud computing platforms data centers and any physical or virtual computing machine as well as any variation or combination thereof. Examples of personal information service and personal information service include but are not limited to Microsoft Exchange Microsoft O365 Hotmail Outlook.com and Gmail as well as any other information exchange service combination or variation thereof capable of operating as described herein.

In operation any of applications platforms and may communicate from time to time with service platform or service platform over communication network to facilitate the exchange of information between personal information applications and and personal information service and between personal information application and personal information service . Service platform and service platform may also communicate over communication network to facilitate the exchange of information. For example information may be exchanged to facilitate the sending and receiving of email the creation and monitoring of calendar events the creation and monitoring of tasks and to facilitate the searching of email events and tasks as well as for other reasons. Such communication is generally well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Communication between any of the elements contemplated in may occur in accordance with various communication protocols such as the Internet protocol IP IPv4 IPv6 etc. the transfer control protocol TCP and the user datagram protocol UDP as well as any other suitable communication protocol variation or combination thereof. Communication network may be representative of a network or collection of networks over which the elements contemplated in may exchange information such as an intranet the Internet a local area network a wide area network a wireless network a wired network or any combination or variation thereof. Communication network may include connections devices and communication media such as metal glass air or any other suitable communication media over which information may be exchanged. The aforementioned communication media network connections protocols and devices are well known and need not be discussed at length here.

The manner and format in which information is exchanged may vary. In some implementations a personal information application may exchange information with a personal information service in accordance with various protocols such as IMAP internet message access protocol POP post office protocol SMTP simple mail transfer protocol OWA Outlook Web App webmail protocol various other webmail protocols various proprietary protocols HTTP hypertext transfer protocol REST representational state transfer Web Socket DOM Document Object Model HTML hypertext markup language CSS cascading style sheets HTML5 XML extensible markup language JavaScript JSON JavaScript Object Notation and AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML as well as any other suitable protocol variation or combination thereof.

In operation a client device application platforms running a personal information application receives a search query. The search query may be a string of characters input entered by a user through a user interface user interfaces and that is rendered when the personal information application is executed. T

To assist the user the personal information application presents several suggestions relating to the search query. The suggestions may be for example word completions phrase completions or some other type of search suggestion. The suggestions may also include personal information items such as suggested events tasks or contact. A user is able to optionally select one of the completed words or phrases or suggested items and thereby speed up or otherwise improve their search experience.

Depending upon what is selected from the suggestions a search may commence. For example upon selecting a word completion or a phrase completion a search may commence based on that word or phrase. In another example upon selecting a task or event a search may commence based on the word or event. In either case the personal information application communicates the enhanced search query to a service platform for handling within the context of a personal information service . Search results are returned to the personal information application and presented accordingly.

However in some cases it may be a suggested contact that is selected. Rather than initiating defining the search query based on the suggested contact an associated contact and its contact details are surfaced and presented to the user while persisting the display of the other suggestions. The user may thus interact with the contact and its details and if so desired return to the other suggestions without having to replicate the initial search query.

In fact such an arrangement is also possible with respect to the other types of personal information items. For example a suggested event may be presented in a suggestion box. Upon selection of the suggested event by a user an associated event and its event details are presented while maintaining the presentation of other suggestions. The user can then interact with the associated event its details and any other associated controls or features. For example the user may decline an event or change its date or time from within the presentation of it that is surfaced while maintaining the other suggestions.

In some scenarios the contacts or other personal information items that may be included in a list of query suggestions are identified by matching the characters in a search query to various known contacts and other items. However in some scenarios the contacts or other items may be discovered even though they would not satisfy such searching criteria. Rather the contacts or other items may be discovered by analyzing at least some search results for people meetings trips or other indicators that appear important or relevant. Associated contacts events or other items may then be derived from the relevant indicators and presented along with the other search suggestions in a suggestion list for a query.

Referring to and enhanced suggestion process is illustrated as well as operational scenario . Operational scenario is representative of various features and functionality that mat be experienced with respect to user interface when enhanced suggestion process is carried out.

To begin a search query pet is entered in search box and is identified at least partly for purposes of providing automatic suggestions step . Accordingly search suggestions are identified base on the characters p e t step . In this example the search suggestions include petroleum and pets. Note how the search suggestions for exemplary purposes each begin with the characters in the search query although other ways in which to identify or otherwise determine search suggestions are possible.

Suggested items such as suggested contacts or events are also identified based on the characters in the search query step . In this example the suggested items include a contact suggestion for Peter and a contact suggestion for Petra. Note how the contact suggestions for exemplary purposes each begin with the characters in the search query although other ways in which to identify or otherwise determine contact suggestions are possible.

The search suggestions and the suggested items are presented in a suggestion box that drops down from the search box step . The user may then select any one of the selection in response to which an enhanced query may be formed or an associated contact and its details displayed. In this example an indication of interest is made with respect to the suggested contact for Petra. In response associated contact is presented while maintaining the presentation of suggestion box .

Referring to and enhanced suggestion process is illustrated as well as operational scenario . Operational scenario is representative of various features and functionality that mat be experienced with respect to user interface when enhanced suggestion process is carried out.

To begin a search query KMQ is entered in search box and is identified at least partly for purposes of providing automatic suggestions step . Accordingly search suggestions are identified based on the characters K M Q step . In this example the search suggestions include KMQMNT which may refer to for example an airline reservation. Note how the search suggestion for exemplary purposes begins with the characters in the search query although other ways in which to identify or otherwise determine search suggestions are possible.

Next an examination of at least some search results is initiated to identify a person meeting reservation or some other relevant or important item step . The search results may be initial results that are returned based on the initial search query. In some implementations the initial results are presented to a user but in some scenarios the initial results might not be presented but rather are just analyzed for purposes of identifying contact suggestions. The initial search results may include for example various emails scheduled events or tasks that were selected for having the string KMQ contained therein.

The items in the search results can then be analyzed for the identity of people the occurrence of a meeting or some other event or any other indication that can be used to identify additional suggestions step . For instance an email in the results may reference a meeting with Matilda in the content or body of the email. In this example it may be assumed for exemplary purposes that Matilda is not a contact addressed by the email such as the sender or a recipient. Contacts can then be searched for any matching Matilda and included in the suggested items presented via suggestion box step . Thus suggestion box includes a suggested contact for Matilda. Note how the contact suggestion for exemplary purposes does not begin with the characters in the search query thus illustrating that the suggested contact is not identified directly from the characters in the search query.

In addition to contacts other types of items may be discovered and suggested in this manner. In another example an email in the initial search results may reference an airline reservation that indicates a travel date. Using the travel date as event criteria events can be searched for any that might be relevant to the travel date or other suitable event criteria. A suggested event can then be presented in the suggestion box along with the suggested contact .

The search suggestions and the suggested items are presented in a suggestion box that drops down from the search box or other such element step . The user may select any one of the suggestions in response to which an enhanced query may be formed or an associated item and its details displayed. In this example an indication of interest is made with respect to the suggested contact for Matilda. In response contact is presented while maintaining the presentation of suggestion box step .

While operational scenario generally relates to an example whereby the suggested contacts and suggested events are discovered by analyzing the content of search results it may be appreciated suggested events may be identified based directly on the search query much like how the suggestions were identified with respect to . Indeed it may be appreciated that a variety of suggested items may be identified for suggestion in addition to or in place of those discussed herein with respect to each Figure. For example in a suggested event may have been identified and presented in suggestion box the selection of which would trigger the presentation of its associated event and details. A user could then interact with the event to edit its detail accept or decline the event and so on.

It may be appreciated that enhanced suggestion process may also be applicable in other contexts in addition to personal information applications and services. For example enhanced suggestion processes and and their associated features and functionality may be applied as well to desktop search Internet search and the like.

The functional block diagrams operational sequences and other diagrams provided in the Figures are representative of exemplary architectures environments and methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosure. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation methods included herein may be in the form of a functional diagram operational sequence or flow diagram and may be described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methods are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

The included descriptions and figures depict specific implementations to teach those skilled in the art how to make and use the best option. For the purpose of teaching inventive principles some conventional aspects have been simplified or omitted. Those skilled in the art will appreciate variations from these implementations that fall within the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the features described above can be combined in various ways to form multiple implementations. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific implementations described above but only by the claims and their equivalents.

