---

title: System and method for automatically suggesting or inviting a party to join a multimedia communications session
abstract: The present disclosure includes a system and method for automatically suggesting or inviting a party to join a multimedia communications session. In some embodiments, a first party, which is not currently participating in an existing multimedia communications session, attempts to contact a second party, which is currently participating in the multimedia communications session. In these embodiments, the first party automatically receives a suggestion or invitation to join the multimedia communications session when the first party has permission to join. In some instances, the multimedia communications session is a video conference including audio and video communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09332044&OS=09332044&RS=09332044
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09332044
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130702
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 553 139 filed on Jul. 19 2012 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 477 176 on Jul. 2 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Advances in technology have improved upon and expanded the variety of mechanisms individuals use to communicate. Today these mechanisms provide the ability to communicate textually auditorily visually or by any combination thereof i.e. multimedia communications. With these advances it is commonplace for an individual to simultaneously use or have access to many different mechanisms for communication. As a result it is not uncommon for an individual to attempt to contact another individual using a first mechanism for communication while the other individual is involved in an existing communications session using a second mechanism.

For example a first individual may attempt to contact a second individual via a text messaging service while the second individual is involved in a video conference with a third individual. In this scenario the second individual may not notice or respond to the first individual s text message in a timely manner or may plan to respond but ultimately forget. If the first individual s text message contained important or time sensitive information the second individual may miss the opportunity to respond or be disadvantaged. Alternatively the second individual may notice the text message and interrupt the video conference with the third individual. In the case where the text message does not contain important or time sensitive information this interruption may be a nuisance.

Consequently there is a need for a system and method to notify an individual that the party the individual is attempting to contact is participating in an existing communications session and automatically suggesting or inviting the individual to join the existing communications session without interrupting the communications session.

The present disclosure includes a system comprising a plurality of participating client devices participating in a multimedia video communications session a non participating client device configured to participate in multimedia video communications an intent judging unit configured to determine when a user of the non participating client device expresses intent to communicate by inputting contact information into the non participating client device a contact judging unit configured to determine whether the contact information is associated with one of a plurality of user profiles a status judging unit configured to determine whether a user profile is associated with the multimedia video communications session a permission judging unit configured to determine whether the user of the non participating client device has permission to participate in the multimedia video communications session and a suggestion transmission unit configured to transmit a suggestion to the non participating client device for the non participating client device to join the multimedia video communications session.

In some instances the system further comprises a server configured to store the plurality of user profiles each user profile comprising at least one identifier associated with the user profile. The intent judging unit the contact judging unit the status judging unit the permission judging unit and the suggestion transmission unit maybe located at the server. Alternatively the intent judging unit the contact judging unit the status judging unit the permission judging unit and the suggestion transmission unit are located at the non participating client device.

Additionally the non participating client may include an input unit configured to receive input and a display device wherein a prompt is displayed on the display device when the suggestion transmission unit transmits a suggestion to the non participating client device for the non participating client device to join the multimedia video communications session.

Some embodiments describe a method at a client for providing a suggestion to join an existing multimedia video communications session comprising detecting input of contact information into the client determining whether the contact information is associated with a contact stored on a contact list that is accessible by the client determining whether the contact is associated with a multimedia video communications session determining whether the client is authorized to participate in the multimedia video communications session when the contact is associated with the multimedia video communications session and providing a suggestion to the client for the client to join the multimedia video communications session when the client is authorized to participate.

The method at the client may comprise receiving periodic notifications indicating presence state information of contacts associated with the contact list accessible by the client wherein the contact list is stored locally on the client.

Other embodiments describe a method at a server for providing a suggestion to join an existing multimedia video communications session comprising receiving contact information determining whether the contact information is associated with a contact stored on a contact list that is accessible by the server determining whether the contact is associated with a multimedia video communications session determining whether a client is authorized to participate in the multimedia video communications session when the contact is associated with the multimedia video communications session and transmitting a suggestion to the client for the client to join the multimedia video communications session when the client is authorized to participate.

The method at the server may further comprise determining whether a predetermined amount of time has elapsed from receiving the contact information and transmitting the suggestion to join the multimedia video communications session when the predetermined amount of time has not elapsed.

In an example embodiment a service provider supports multimedia communication among individuals and facilitates the communication once credentials are established enabling the service provider to determine when such facilitation is appropriate. The ability to access and use a service at a service provider is not available until an individual registers with the service provider. This process is generally initiated when an individual creates a user account or profile profile or user profile . In most instances the profile is maintained by the service provider. The user profile may contain personal information about the user. Additionally the user or the service provider may generate contact information that is either included in the profile or associated with the profile. Examples of contact information include but are not limited to a telephone number an email address and a username. The service provider controls access to the contact information by other individuals to facilitate contact with the individual associated with the user profile.

In this embodiment the service provider supports more than one mechanism for communication allowing individuals to initiate a communications session using one mechanism and transition to another to complete the communications session. This may be accomplished by providing a different application for each form of communication and or by combining more than one form of communication into a single application. One example of a suitable multimedia communications environment is the Google environment. The Google environment supports at least a mobile text messaging service an instant messaging service an email service mobile telephony and a video conferencing service Google hangouts .

An example multimedia communications environment is described in detail with respect to . The illustrated environment is presented as an example and does not imply any limitation regarding the use of other group networking environments. To the contrary the description contemplates all implementations of multimedia communications environments that support notifying an individual that the party the individual is attempting to contact is participating in an existing communications session and automatically suggesting or inviting the individual to join the existing communications session without interrupting the communications session.

Turning to example client devices A C presented in further detail by client device are connected to a service provider supporting a multimedia communications environment that enables one or more communications sessions among the client devices A C. Example client devices A C include but are not limited to portable mobile and or stationary devices such as landline telephones mobile telephones including smart phones laptop computers tablet computers desktop computers personal digital assistants PDAs portable gaming devices portable media players and e book readers. In some embodiments two or more client devices A C may be connected in the same manner to a communications session. Similarly client devices A C may include similar communications mechanisms. For example client device A and client device B may both be mobile telephones. In other embodiments two or more client devices A C are different types of devices. For example client device A may be a mobile telephone and client device B may be a desktop computer or other client residing on and powered by programmed logic circuits.

In the embodiment illustrated by the client device A communicates with server via a communications channel A. The communications channel typically includes an Internet or mobile communication connection between the client A and the server but could be established by other such communications circuits such closed networks etc. The server often comprises multiple physical servers such as a communications server for maintaining or hosting one or more communications sessions. Of course each server can be a physically separate machine or it can be different processes running within the same physical machine. In this embodiment the server is maintained by a service provider in order to facilitate communication and interaction among individuals e.g. users of the client devices A C.

In one example embodiment the client device A maintains or hosts a communications session and other client devices such as the client devices B C in are routed to the communications session at the client device A by server or the like. Additionally in some embodiments the server includes a plurality of interconnected devices maintained at different physical locations.

Communications sessions at the communications server are supported by an environment defined by a runtime engine executing at the server . For example the runtime engine may be Google s App Engine. The runtime engine provides the platform for the communications session and supplies resources required for user interaction. The resources of the application engine are available to the communications session by way of an application programming interface API or other connecting application transferring protocol or the like. In some instances multimedia streams are distributed by reflectors distributing combined signals in various protocols such as real time protocol RTP .

The client device of includes application s communications client output device e.g. a display and input device e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen . Application s provide the client device with a variety of functionality. Generally application s employ the output device to display information at a graphical user interface GUI and the input device to accept and respond to user input. The application s may include but are not limited to an email client an instant messaging client a text messaging client a video conferencing client e.g. Google Hangouts an Internet browser and or the like.

The communications client further includes a communications module that enables output device to display information at the GUI . The communications module also enables the communications client to connect to the communications server allowing a user of the client device in to establish or join a communications session. Typically the communications module is a network module that connects the client device to a network such as the Internet using network protocol techniques including by way of example transmission control protocols and internet protocols. In this manner multiple client devices A C may join the same communications session hosted at the communications server . Through the communications session the communications module at the client device enables the user to reside in a location where other client devices may join the session.

Once a communications session is established a session channel e.g. channels A C between the communications client and the communications server exchanges data such as audio video text and or other information. In some embodiments the data exchanged between the communications client and the communications server is optimized based at least in part on the hardware and or software capabilities of client device . For example if the client device is a mobile device connecting to the communications session by way of a bandwidth limited path such as a cellular network communications server may optimize the number and quality of the audio video text and or other information sent to the client device . Furthermore the communications client may dynamically adjust the bit rate required to send the information to the communications server by for example reducing the quality of the audio video text and or other information being sent to the communications server .

GUI is an illustrative example of a GUI from which a communications session may be initiated and sustained. In the illustrated embodiment GUI includes information about one or more other client devices connected to the client device by the communications session . The GUI may also include notifications of events and other information relevant to the user of the client device .

In order to establish or join a communications session a user of client device interacts with the input device and or the GUI to cause the communications client to generate a request to create a new communications session or join an existing communications session. For example GUI may include a Send Message button that the user activates in order to create a new communications session. In response to the user activating the Send Message button communications client sends a request to initiate a new communications session to communications server which establishes a new communications session.

In an alternative embodiment a user of client the device requests to join an existing communications session or the service provider may determine that the user should be joined to an existing session. In this example embodiment the service provider includes business rules and other information such as other open sessions. Based upon information provided by the user which may be explicit e.g. by responding to a prompt or implicit e.g. by selecting a certain entry point the service provider may communicate with the communications server to join the user to a communications session already ongoing.

In another alternative the user of client device selects a join existing session icon at the GUI and selects a session from a displayed list of available communications sessions at the GUI or selects an icon displayed in an external source such as an instant message or posting. However communicated to the user in response to the user initiating an attempt to join an existing communications session communications client sends a request to join the communications session to the communications server . The request includes an identifier of the particular communications session associated with the service provider. In some embodiments the identifier is a Jabber ID JID universal resource identifier URI or uniform resource locator URL . The identifier may be included in the join link. The communications server connects the communications client to the specified the communications session .

Referring now to one example of the client device is illustrated. In general many other embodiments of the client device may be used as long as they support at least limited participation in the communications sessions including multimedia communications sessions such as video conferencing. In the example embodiment of the client device includes one or more processors memory network interface one or more storage devices power source output device and input device . The client device also includes an operating system and a communications client that are executable by the client device . In a conventional fashion each of components and are interconnected physically communicatively and or operatively for inter component communications.

As illustrated the processor s are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within the client device . For example the processor s execute instructions stored in the memory or instructions stored on the storage devices . The memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within client device during operation. In some embodiments the memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the client device is turned off. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . The memory is maintains program instructions for execution by the processor s .

The storage device s also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. The storage device s are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than the memory . The storage device s may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples the storage device s include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The client device uses the network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. The network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include Bluetooth 3G 4G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and universal serial bus USB . In some embodiments the client device uses the network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the server of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

The client device includes one or more input devices . The input device is configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio and or video feedback. Non limiting examples of the input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system video camera microphone or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in client device . The output device is configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. The output device may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of the output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user.

The client device includes one or more power sources to provide power to the client. Examples of the power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The client device includes an operating system such as the Android operating system. The operating system controls operations of the components of the client device . For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of the communications client with the processor s memory network interface storage device s input device output device and the power source . As illustrated in the communications client includes the communications module . Each of the communications client and the communications module typically includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the client device . For example in one example embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the client device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In some example embodiments the communications client and or communications module form a part of operating system executing on the client device . In other embodiments the communications client receives input from one or more of the input devices of the client device . The communications client preferably receives audio and video information associated with a communications session from other client devices participating in the communications session. In some instances the communications client and or communications module may include an email client an instant messaging client a text messaging client a video conferencing client e.g. Google Hangouts an Internet browser and or the like.

The communications module causes GUI to display a user selectable icon . Non limiting examples of the icon are a virtual or graphical button such as a key of a virtual keyboard a touch target a physical button of client device or a button on an input device coupled to client device such as a mouse button a button on a mobile device or a key of a keyboard. Of course the GUI may include other graphical controls as well.

The graphical user interface GUI of is an example of the GUI of the client device such as in . However the graphical display of may be outputted using other devices. A client application supporting communications sessions is typically web based contained within an internet browser session. The application exposes a number of features to the user through the GUI. These graphically displayed features include a video display of one or more individuals in the session. A chat feature may be provided including a chat history and a field where a user can input text to the chat conversation. The GUI is also configured to display graphical images that are associated with individuals or clients in the session. Graphical images may include images of individuals currently participating in the communications session. An exit button is provided as an example of a way in which the user may terminate the communications session if desired.

Referring to in one example embodiment an application programming interface API of an Application Engine or App Engine provides many resources and or client devices to the communications session e.g. a Google Hangout . As an alternative the service provider may direct the connection of such resources and or client devices to the communications session . In turn the App engine may utilize resources provided from an API exposed by a resources infrastructure layer and a networking layer which are supported by the server and its operating system . The App Engine and the resource infrastructure layer connect HTTP requests from the user to the communications sessions . The App engine also provides a runtime environment for the communications sessions . Administrative support for the communications sessions may be provided by the service provider in the App engine . The App engine also provides access to a database in the resource infrastructure layer for persistent storage requirements of the communications sessions .

Through its API the App engine provides the communications sessions access to resources on the Internet such as web services or other data. The App engine retrieves web resources using the resource infrastructure layer . The communications session also sends and receives messages using the App engine and the resource infrastructure layer . The App engine and the resource infrastructure layer also supports a cache which is useful for temporary data or data copied from the datastore to the cache for high speed access. The resource infrastructure layer also supports a file system and scheduling resources. An example of the App Engine is Google s App Engine. An example of the resource infrastructure layer the networking infrastructure and the operating system is Google s supporting infrastructure and operating system for its App engine.

Turning now to one example of a user profile maintained by a service provider and associated with an individual who is authorized to use the services provided by the service provider such as participating in the multimedia communications environment described in accordance with is described. The user profile of has multiple fields including but not limited to given name address username e.g. screen name email address telephone number gender status etc. In some embodiments the user profile includes a JID URI or URL that may be used e.g. by the service provider to identify and or locate the profile.

A user profile may be created by an individual using the client device that is described in accordance with . For example a user of the client device interacts with the input device and or the GUI to cause the communications client to initiate contact with a service provider and request service. In this example if the service provider does not have a record of the user i.e. the user does not have a profile the service provider prompts the user via GUI to create a new user profile. In response the user enters required information to create a user profile using the input device and or the GUI of the client device and the service provider generates a new user profile.

Once a user profile has been created such as the user profile of John Doe illustrated by the user has access to various services provided by the service provider. For example user John Doe is authorized to participate in communications sessions such as the session described in accordance with . In some instances the service provider requires the user to download applications specific to the service that the user desires to participate in such as an email client an instant messaging client a text messaging client etc. . In other instances the service provider hosts one or more applications at server and the user is not required to download additional applications to the client device .

Contact information is associated with linked to and or included in the user profile . Contact information is any address destination or other identifying information that allows one user or machine to communicate with another user or machine through the service provider. Examples of contact information includes but are not limited to email addresses usernames telephone numbers and the like. In some instances contact information is automatically created by the service provider based on the information provided by an individual to create a user profile. Alternatively individuals may choose to customize the contact information associated with their profiles.

Additionally mechanisms are provided by the service provider or by application s executing on the client device to maintain a list of the contact information associated with individuals that the user frequently communicates with. Such a list is commonly referred to as a contact or buddy list contact list . In some embodiments at least one contact list e.g. contact list in is associated with each user profile e.g. user profile in maintained by the service provider. Standard communications protocols such as the Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP may be used to build and maintain contact lists.

In some instances the contact information in the contact list associated with the user profile is separated grouped or organized based on the preferences of the user. For example colleagues friends and family members may be organized into logical groups or circles. Additionally the user may set various permissions for each circle. In some instances the permissions allow certain groups or circles to view personal information about the user e.g. the personal information contained in user profile while blocking other circles from viewing such information.

In this embodiment the user of the client device A attempts to contact the user of the client device B through the service provider via email while the user of the client device B is participating in the video communications session . In some embodiments the application s and or the communications client residing on the client device A include an email client. The user of the client device A executes the email client and begins to input the destination of the email i.e. an email address associated with the user of the client device B.

As soon as or shortly after the user of the client device A expresses intent to email the user of the client device B the system of attempts to determine the status of the recipient of the email. In some instances the status of a user is indicated by presence information associated with standard communications protocols e.g. XMPP. Expressing intent to contact an individual includes but is not limited to entering contact information associated with the individual into a destination field. In the case of an email client this includes entering an email address associated with the desired recipient into an address field of the email. Of course the example described in is not limited to email and may be extended to any conceivable mechanism for communicating in the multimedia communications environment such as text messaging instant messaging placing a telephone call placing a video call and the like.

In the example embodiment of once the user of the client device A has expressed intent to contact the desired recipient a series of decisions are made by the service provider to determine if the user of the client device A is authorized to join the video communications session . When the user of the client device A is authorized to join the service provider invites to the user to join the video communications session without interrupting its participants. In some instances the suggestion to join appears as a prompt or message that is displayed by the output device and or the GUI of the client device A. In some situations the prompt or message may interrupt operation of the client device A to ensure that the user is made aware of the suggestion. Additionally the suggestion may include a link to the video communications session . However communicated to the user in response to the user accepting the suggestion the client device A is joined to video communications session .

In some embodiments the suggestion to join must be transmitted by the service provider and or received by the client device A within a predetermined amount of time from the expression of intent to contact the desired recipient. This is to ensure that the user of the client device is prompted shortly after the user expresses intent to contact the desired recipient. These embodiments may include a timer clock or any other device to calculate the passage of time.

In this embodiment the reception unit receives electronic communications from client devices e.g. via channels A C described in previous embodiments. The intent judging unit detects or is notified when the user of a client device initiates a new communication such as composing a new email. Once activated the intent judging unit monitors the new communication to detect the input of contact information. As soon as enough contact information to decipher the intended recipient of the new communication is input the intent judging unit captures the contact information and passes it to the contact judging unit .

The contact judging unit determines whether the contact information is associated with one of the plurality of user profiles maintained by the service provider. In some instances cooperation among multiple service providers allows the contact judging unit to determine whether the contact information is associated with a user profile maintained by any or all of the cooperating service providers. In the scenario where the contact information is not associated with a user profile the system does not perform the automatic suggesting or inviting and the user may complete and send the new communication without interruption.

Alternatively the contact information may be associated with a user profile whereby the status judging unit determines the status or presence state of the user associated with the contact information i.e. the ability and willingness of the user to engage in communications. In the example embodiment depicted by the status judging unit determines that the user of the client device B is currently participating in the video communications session . In some instances the status judging unit determines that the intended recipient is available for communications i.e. not actively participating in an existing communications session whereby the system does not perform the automatic suggesting or inviting. In other instances the status judging unit determines that the intended recipient is currently participating in an existing communications session. In this situation the status judging unit passes the identifier of the particular communications session that the intended recipient of the new communication is participating in to the permission judging unit . Referring again to the embodiment described in the permission judging unit passes the identifier of video communications session to the permission judging unit .

The permission judging unit determines whether the party initiating the new communication has permission to participate in the particular communications session. In this embodiment this determination is accomplished by locating the particular communications session using its identifier and consulting the session s access list. In the example embodiment depicted by the permission judging unit receives the identifier of the video communications session and consults its access list. If the access list indicates that the user of the client device A is not authorized to join the system does not perform the automatic suggesting or inviting. Alternatively if the access list indicates that the user of the client device A is authorized to join the transmission unit outputs a suggestion to the client device A for its user to join the video communications session .

The server of may optionally include time measuring unit . Time measuring unit determines whether a predetermined amount of time has elapsed from the expression of intent to contact the desired recipient. In the embodiments including the time measuring unit when the predetermined amount of time has elapsed the system does not perform the automatic suggesting or inviting. The predetermined amount of time may be for example any amount of time between 1 and 100 milliseconds. Some embodiments support a longer duration of time other embodiments support a shorter duration of time.

While the units of are depicted as residing within the server at the service provider the system is not limited to this arrangement. In some embodiments some or all of units reside at the client device e.g. the client device . In these embodiments the server periodically push notifications to the client device indicating among other things the presence state information of contacts on the contact list of the user of the client device and information indicating existing communications sessions if any that the user is authorized to participate in. Additionally a contact list may reside locally on the client device . In these embodiments the contact judging unit residing on the client device makes its determination using the local contact list. The permission judging unit makes its determination based on the latest push notifications sent from the server . As such in the example embodiments where units reside on the client device automatic suggestions may be generated and delivered to the user of the client device faster compared to other embodiments.

Step The intent judging unit detects or is notified when the user of a client device initiates a new communication. Examples of a new communication include but are not limited to composing a new email message opening an instant messaging window dialing a telephone number and the like.

Step Once activated the intent judging unit monitors the new communication and detects the input of contact information e.g. the address or destination of the intended recipient. As soon as enough contact information to decipher the intended recipient of the new communication is input the intent judging unit captures the contact information and passes it to the contact judging unit .

Step The contact judging unit determines whether the contact information is associated with one of the plurality of user profiles maintained by the service provider. If the contact information is not associated with a user profile the system does not perform the automatic suggesting or inviting i.e. the method terminates and the user may complete and send the new communication without interruption.

Step If the contact judging unit determined that the contact information is associated with a user profile the status judging unit determines the status or presence state of the user associated with the contact information i.e. the ability and willingness of the user to engage in communications. Example presence states include but are not limited to active inactive online offline busy participating in communications session session ID where session ID is the JID or other identifier of the particular communications session etc. If the status judging unit determines that the intended recipient is available for communications i.e. not actively participating in an existing communications session the system does not perform the automatic suggesting or inviting. If the status judging unit determines that the intended recipient is currently participating in an existing communications session the status judging unit passes the identifier of the particular communications session that the intended recipient of the new communication is participating in to the permission judging unit .

Step The permission judging unit determines whether the party initiating the new communication has permission to participate in the particular communications session by locating the particular communications session using its identifier and consulting the session s access list. If the access list indicates that the party initiating the new communication is not authorized to join the system does not perform the automatic suggesting or inviting.

Step If the access list indicates that the party initiating the new communication is authorized to join the transmission unit outputs a suggestion that the party joins the particular communications session.

Step If the party initiating the new communication accepts the suggestion to join that party is joined at step otherwise the method terminates and new communication may be completed and sent without further interruption.

Step The party initiating the new communication is joined to and may participate in the existing communications session. Throughout the process described by steps the communications session was not interrupted.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or example language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the embodiments and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

