---

title: Sound source characterization apparatuses, methods and systems
abstract: A processor-implemented method for sound characterization is described. In one implementation, time-frequency transform of each of a plurality of sound signals from one or more sources, the sound signals being detected by a plurality of sensing devices, is derived. One or more single-source constant-time analysis zones based at least on correlation between the time-frequency transform signals from a pair of sensing devices are detected. At least one direction of arrival for each source in the detected single source analysis zones are detected. A histogram of the estimated directions of arrival is created and an estimate of a number of the sound sources and corresponding directions of arrival are generated based at least on the histogram.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554203&OS=09554203&RS=09554203
owner: Foundation for Research and Technolgy—Hellas (FORTH) Institute of Computer Science (ICS)
number: 09554203
owner_city: Heraklion
owner_country: GR
publication_date: 20130926
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 706 073 filed Sep. 26 2012 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application may contain material subject to copyright or other intellectual property protection. The respective owners of such intellectual property have no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the disclosure as it appears in documents published by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office but otherwise reserve all rights whatsoever.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to apparatuses methods and systems for sound source localization and source counting and more particularly to SOUND SOURCE CHARACTERIZATION APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS SSC .

This summary is not intended to identify essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use in determining or limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A processor implemented method for sound characterization is described. In one implementation time frequency transform of each of a plurality of sound signals from one or more sources wherein the sound signals are detected by a plurality of sensing devices is derived. One or more single source constant time analysis zones based at least on correlation between the time frequency transform signals from a pair of sensing devices are detected. At least one direction of arrival for each source in the detected single source analysis zones are detected. A histogram of the estimated directions of arrival is created and an estimate of a number of the sound sources and corresponding directions of arrival are generated based at least on the histogram.

It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative systems. Similarly it should be appreciated that any flow charts flow diagrams state transition diagrams pseudo code and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in a computer readable medium and so executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

Microphones may be used in conjunction with various methods to localize sound sources such as to determine direction of arrival of signals from the sound sources in a variety of scenarios. For example methods may be used to determine the location of speakers in a room during a teleconference. Such methods either focus on scenarios where only a single sound source or microphone is active or provide computationally intensive solutions that cannot be executed efficiently in real time where multiple sound sources are active simultaneously. Other methods rely on the assumption that sources do not overlap in small windows of time which may true hold for speech in anechoic environments but not in reverberant conditions.

According to an embodiment the SSC includes methods and systems to localize multiple simultaneously active sources. In addition to accurate and efficient localization estimation the SSC may also be configured to count the number of active sources at each time instant or at predefined time intervals. Such source counting and corresponding localization estimation may be performed by processing a mixture of signals data received by a plurality of sensing devices such as microphones arranged in an array and by taking into account the known array geometry and or correlation between signals from one or more pairs or other combinations of sensing devices in the array. In one embodiment the sensing devices may be arranged in a circular array. In other embodiments the devices may be arranged in an array having other configurations e.g. triangle square straight or curved line or any other configuration .

Some embodiments described herein allow for joint DOA estimation and source counting. To this end the SSC may partition the incoming signals data from the sensing devices in overlapping time frames. The SSC may then apply a joint sparsifying transforms to the incoming signals in order to locate single source constant time analysis zones. In one implementation each single source constant time analysis zone is a set of frequency adjacent time frequency points. The SSC may assume that for each source there exists at least one single source constant time analysis zones also referred to as single source analysis zone where that source is dominant over others. The cross correlation and or auto correlation of the moduli of time frequency transforms of signals from various pairs of microphones are analyzed to identify single source constant time analysis zones based at least on a correlation coefficient measure.

In some embodiments a strongest frequency component of a cross power spectrum of time frequency signals from a pair of microphones may be used to estimate a DOA for each of the sources relative to a reference axis. This may be performed either simultaneously or in an orderly manner for each of the detected single source constant time analysis zones. In other embodiments a selected number of frequency components may be used for DOA estimation. The estimated DOAs for each sound source may be clustered and the DOA density function may be obtained for each source over one or more portions of the signals. A smoothed histogram may be obtained by applying a filter having a window length hand a predetermined number of frames. Additionally or alternatively in one implementation the number of sources may also be estimated from the histogram of DOA estimates such as by using peak search or linear predictive coding. In some embodiments the number of sources may be estimated from the histogram of DOA estimates using a matching pursuit technique. Additionally refined and more accurate values of DOAs are generated corresponding to each of the estimated sources based at least on the histogram.

Some embodiments of the methods and systems described herein can offer lower computational complexity and higher accuracy as compared to existing solutions for DOA estimation can operate in both real time and offline modes some implementations operate with less than or about 50 of the available processing time of a standard computer and provide relaxed sparsity constraints on the source signals compared to conventional methods. Some embodiments of SSC are configured to operate regardless of the kind of sensing array array topologies number of sources and separations SNR conditions and environments such as for example anechoic reverberant and or simulated real environments. In an embodiment the sparse representation of the observation signals in time frequency domain along with source counting using matching pursuit based techniques on histogram of DOA estimates can improve accuracy and robustness in adverse environments.

SSC may find various applications in the field such as for teleconferencing where knowledge of the location of the speaker can be used to steer a camera or to enhance the capture of the desired speaker s voice with beamforming thus replacing lapel microphones. Other applications include but are not limited to event detection and tracking robot movement in an unknown environment different kinds of human computer interaction intelligent rooms and next generation hearing aids.

Certain embodiments of SSC may be configured for use in standalone devices e.g. PDAs smartphones laptops PCs and or the like . Other embodiments may be adapted for use in a first device e.g. USB speakerphone Bluetooth microphones Wi Fi microphones and or the like which may be connected to a second device e.g. computers PDAs smartphones and or the like via any type of connection e.g. Bluetooth USB Wi Fi serial parallel RF infrared optical and or the like to exchange various types of data e.g. raw signals processed data recorded data and or signals and or the like . In such embodiments all or part of the data processing may happen on the first device in other embodiments all or part of the data processing may happen on the second device. In some embodiments there maybe more than two devices connected and performing different functions and the connection between devices and processing may happen in stages at different times on different devices. Certain embodiments may be configured to work with various types of processors e.g. ARM Raspberry Pi and or the like .

While aspects of the described SSC can be implemented in any number of different systems circuitries environments and or configurations the embodiments are described in the context of the following exemplary system s and circuit s . The descriptions and details of well known components are omitted for simplicity of the description.

The description and figures merely illustrate exemplary embodiments of the SSC. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the present subject matter. Furthermore all examples recited herein are intended to be for illustrative purposes only to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the present subject matter and the concepts contributed by the inventor s to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the present subject matter as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass equivalents thereof.

The term frequency component is used to indicate one among a set of frequencies or frequency bands of a signal such as a sample of a frequency domain representation of the signal e.g. as produced by a fast Fourier transform or a subband of the signal e.g. a Bark scale or mel scale subband .

A method as described herein may be configured to process the captured signal as a series of short time segments. Typical segment lengths range from about five or ten milliseconds to about forty or fifty milliseconds and the segments may be overlapping e.g. with adjacent segments overlapping by 25 or 50 or non overlapping. In one particular example the signal is divided into a series of non overlapping time segments or frames each having a length of ten milliseconds. A segment as processed by such a method may also be a segment i.e. a subframe of a larger segment as processed by a different operation or vice versa.

For a given source the relative delay between sound signals received at adjacent microphones hereinafter referred to as microphone pair mm with the last pair being mm is given by 

In one embodiment exemplary methods and systems can be communicatively coupled to the sensing devices such as microphones to obtain signals and derive data related to source localization and to count the total number of active sources. In operation the exemplary systems receive the signals captured by the plurality of sensing devices and process received signals data based at least on one or more parameters such as array geometry type of environments and the like to either estimate the number of the active sources or their corresponding DOAs or both.

The processing of signals for determination of source localization information may include but is not limited to representing the received signals in a time frequency domain detecting single source constant time analysis zones for the time frequency representation of the incoming signals based at least on cross correlations and auto correlations between time frequency signals from various combinations of microphone pairs or adjacent pairs estimating DOAs in the single source constant time analysis zones generating and or smoothing of a histogram formed from a block of DOA estimates and estimating the number of active sources and or corresponding refined DOAs with one or more of source counting components for example a matching pursuit component a peak search component or a linear predictive coding component. The details of the exemplary systems and methods are described in subsequent paragraphs.

The system further includes a plurality of sound sensing devices labeled 1 to M capable of detecting mechanical waves such as sound signals from one or more sound sources. In some embodiments the devices may be microphones. Some embodiments may be configured to work with various types of microphones e.g. dynamic condenser piezoelectric MEMS and or the like and signals e.g. analog and digital . The microphones may or may not be equispaced and the location of each microphone relative to a reference point and relative to each other may be known. Some embodiments may or may not comprise one or more sound sources of which the position relative to the microphones may be known. Furthermore the microphones may be arranged in the form of an array. The microphone array can be for example a linear array of microphones a circular array of microphones or an arbitrarily distributed coplanar array of microphones. The description hereinafter may relate to circular microphone arrays however similar methodologies can be implemented on other kind of microphone arrays.

Although mostly discussing audible sound waves the SSC may be configured to accommodate signals in the entire range of frequencies and may also accommodate signals in the entire range of frequencies and may also accommodate other types of signals e.g. electromagnetic waves and or the like .

Each of the sound signals received by the microphones in the microphone array can include the sound signal from a sound source s located in proximity to the microphone or preferred spatial direction and frequency band among other unsuppressed sound signals from the disparate sound sources and directions and ambient noise signals.

In one implementation the mixture of signals received at each of the microphones m m . . . mcan be represented by x t x t . . . x t respectively. According to an implementation each x t can be represented by equation 1 . The signals are received by a time frequency TF transform module which provides a time frequency representation of the observations received signals. In an embodiment the TF transform module can implement a short term Fourier transform STFT as a sparsifying transform to partition the overall time frequency spectrum into both time and frequency domains as a plurality of frequency bands slices extending over a plurality of individual time slots slices on which the Fourier transform is computed. Other sparsifying transforms may be employed in a similar manner.

In some embodiments single source constant time analysis zone SSAZ detector can also detect single source constant time analysis zones t referred to as for simplicity hereinafter as a series of frequency adjacent TF points t . For each source there is assumed to be at least one single source constant time analysis zone SSAZ where a single source is isolated i.e. a zone where a single source is dominant over others. The sources can overlap in TF domain except in one or more of such SSAZs. Further in one implementation if several sources are active in the same SSAZ they vary such that the moduli of at least two observations are linearly dependent. This allows processing of correlated sources contrary to classical statistic based DOA methods.

In one implementation the SSAZ detector detects one or more single source constant time analysis zones by determining cross correlations and auto correlations R and R of the moduli of the time frequency transforms of signals x x from pairs of sensing devices mm as 

In one implementation correlation between all possible pairs of sensing devices mm are considered and the SSAZ detector can identify all zones for which the following condition is satisfied 1 1 . . . 7 

In another implementation average correlation between adjacent pairs of sensing devices mm is considered. Additionally or alternatively the SSAZ detector can identify all zones for which the following condition is satisfied 1 8 Where is a system or user defined threshold.

In yet another implementation a desired combination of microphones may be used for calculation of correlation coefficient r to detect SSAZs. In one example such a selection can be made via a graphical user interface. In another example the selection can be adaptively changed as per environment or system requirements.

In one implementation the detected SSAZs may be used by the DOA estimator and source counter to derive the DOA estimates for each source in each of the detected SSAZs based at least on a cross spectrum over all or selected few microphone pairs.

Since the estimation of the DOA occurs in an SSAZ the phasor of the cross power spectrum R of a microphone pair mm or mm as the case may be is evaluated over a frequency range of the specific zone as 

In one implementation the DOA estimator and source counter then computes phase rotation factors using 

In one implementation of the DOA estimator and source counter a selected range or value s of are used for estimation of DOA in a single source constant time analysis zone. For example in one implementation frequency which corresponds to the strongest component of the cross power spectrum of the microphone pair mm in a single source zone. By definition is the frequency where the magnitude of cross power spectrum R reaches its maximum and can be given by 

In another implementation d frequency components are used in each single source constant time analysis zone. For example frequencies that correspond to the indices of the d highest peaks of the magnitude of the cross power spectrum R over all or selected microphone pairs mm are used. The DOA estimator and source counter thus yields d estimated DOAs from each SSAZ thereby improving the accuracy of the system as more frequency components lead to lower estimation error. The selection of d frequency components may be based on desired level of accuracy and performance and can be modified based on the real time application where the system is implemented.

It will be understood that several single source constant time analysis zones may lead to the same DOA estimate as the same isolated source may exists in all such zones. In one implementation the DOA estimator derives DOA for each source by clustering the estimated DOAs which can be done by creating a histogram for a particular time segment and then finding peaks in the histogram. In other implementations DOAs can and such data distribution can be represented in other ways such as bar charts etc.

Alternatively or additionally once all the local DOAs have been estimated in each of the identified single source constant time analysis zones the DOA estimator and source counter creates a histogram from the set of estimations for example in a block of B consecutive time frames. Any erroneous estimates of low cardinality due to noise and or reverberations only add a noise floor to the histogram. Further in some embodiments a smoothed histogram is obtained from the histogram. Additionally a density function P v of the estimations is obtained by applying an averaging filter with a window for example a rectangular window of length hover the estimations of the block. Therefore if each bin of the smoothed histogram is denoted as v the probability density function P v is given by 

Given y that is the length L smoothed histogram in the nframe the DOA estimator and source counter estimates the number of active sources circumflex over P and their DOAs circumflex over . In one implementation the DOA circumflex over for each source can be estimated using 

In other implementations the DOA estimator and source counter applies one or more methods that robustly estimate the number of active sources. To this end the DOA estimator and source counter may include at least one of a peak search module not shown a linear predictive coding LPC module not shown and or a matching pursuit module not shown to count the number of active sources under the constraint that the maximum number of active sources may not exceed a user or system defined upper threshold P.

In one implementation the peak search module performs peak search on the histogram or smoothed histogram in the following manner Some implementations assume at least one active source in a block of estimates however other implementations are also possible. According to an implementation the peak search module sets i 1 where icorresponds to a counter of the peaks assigned to sources so far. The peak search module can also set u u arg max y v i.e. the histogram bin which corresponds to the highest peak of the smoothed histogram . Finally peak search module can also the threshold z max y u 2 z where zwhich may be a user defined static threshold or a non static peak threshold.

In one implementation the peak search module then locates the next highest peak in the smoothed histogram y u . It can then determine whether one or more of the following conditions are satisfied 

The peak search module stops counting when a peak in the histogram fails to satisfy the threshold zor if the upper threshold Pis reached and yields the estimated number of sources as circumflex over P i. An exemplary plot generated by the peak search module is shown in . The black areas in the plot indicate the bins around a tracked peak of the smoothed histogram that are excluded as candidate source indicators.

In another implementation the source counter implements the LPC module to estimate the number of sources. LPC coefficients can be used to provide an all pole smoothed spectral envelope of speech and audio signals. The spectral envelope thus obtained may be used to identify the peaks of the smoothed histogram and to suppress any noisy areas. In one implementation the LPC module represents the envelope of the histogram with its LPC smoothed counterpart from which the total number of peaks is chosen as an estimate of the total number of active sources circumflex over P .

In another implementation the LPC module counts the number of active sources circumflex over P by applying LPC of an optimum order to the smoothed histogram of DOA estimates. The order of the LPC may be configurable based on the application. Further the LPC may be selected based on results from a variety of simulation scenarios.

In one implementation the LPC module emphasizes the peaks and suppresses any noisy areas such that the LPC envelope coincides with the envelope of the histogram. The LPC module generates the estimated number of active sources circumflex over P by counting the local maxima in the LPC envelope with a constraint for example circumflex over P P. An exemplary curve generated by the LPC module is shown in . The black curve corresponds to the LPC estimated envelope of the histogram .

In yet another implementation the matching pursuit module is used to identify the peaks of the smoothed histogram in other words DOA of a possible source by correlation with a modeled source atom such as a smooth pulse of a Blackman window having variable and or modifiable width. The matching pursuit module then estimates the contribution of each source and removes the contribution until the contribution is insignificant according to predetermined criteria or until the maximum number of sources have been identified i.e. circumflex over P P. Accordingly the matching pursuit module jointly estimates the number of sources and their corresponding refined DOAs. Thus as shown in the DOA estimator and source counter yields DOAs specific to sources sand s. Even though two DOAs are shown it will be understood that multiple angles may be generated.

It will be understood for one source one may get several DOAs from difference single source constant time analysis zones because of noisy estimation procedure while using cross power spectrum over zones. But by using histogram as per some embodiments a more accurate value of DOA among all the estimates can be obtained.

Source counting via the matching pursuit module is further explained with the example of circular microphone arrays. Consider the exemplary histogram of four active sources at 20 db SNR and then consider the sparse approximation using source atoms with variable widths in . The two fixed width atoms provide a compromise between accuracy resolution and computational complexity. Thus while narrower width provides accurate location of the each peak wider width source atom provides better approximation of contribution of each peak to the overall histogram. In one implementation the wider width source atom is centered on the same index as the narrower one as shown in .

In one implementation the correlation of the source pulse with the histogram is done in a circular manner as the histogram wraps from 359 to 0 . In one implementation the matching pursuit module forms a matrix whose rows or columns include wrapped and shifted versions of the source pulse described subsequently. The matching pursuit module selects b as a length row vector having a length Q Blackman window u as a length row vector whose first Q values are populated with b and then padded with L Q zeros. Also udenotes a version of that has been circularly shifted to the right by elements the circular shift means that the elements at either end wrap around and a negative value of implies a circular shift to the left. The matching pursuit module selects Q 2Q 1 where Qis a positive integer. In an example the maximum value of b or equivalently u occurs at Q 1 position. The matching pursuit module then defines c u. The maximum value of the length L row vector c can occur at its first element. Elements of c can be denoted as c and its energy can be given by E c. The matching pursuit module then forms matrix C which consists of circularly shifted versions of c. Specifically the k row of C is given by c. For the two widths of source atoms the matching pursuit module assigns Cand Cas matrices for the peak detection denoted by N for narrow and the masking operation denoted by W for wide respectively with corresponding source atom widths Qand Q. In order to estimate the number of active sources the matching pursuit module creates a length Pvector whose elements are predetermined thresholds representing the relative energy of the jsource. The matching pursuit module then performs joint source counting and DOA estimation as follows 

The matching pursuit module thus yields circumflex over P as the total number of active sources along with their DOAs circumflex over calculated at step d above. The matching pursuit approach is computationally efficient as source counting and DOA estimation can be done in real time. Real time may refer to the response of the system within the strict time constraint defined by the duration of the time frame. In another implementation Cand Cthat are circulant matrices include L Qand L Qw zeros in each row respectively and both these properties may be exploited to provide a reduced computational load.

The exemplary methods may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions. Generally computer executable instructions can include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules functions etc. that perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The methods may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

At block mixed source signals detected by a plurality of sensing devices in an array are obtained. In one implementation mixed source signals from one or more sources such as sound sources are detected by a plurality of sensing devices such as microphones. For example the mixed source signals include signals from the source in proximity to the microphone and unsuppressed signals from other sources such as adjacent sources and ambient noise signals. The microphones may be arranged in any known configuration such as circular linear etc.

At block joint sparsifying time frequency transform of each of the received mixed source signal is obtained. In one implementation the received mixed source signals are segmented into a plurality of overlapping time frames on which sparsifying transform such as STFT. The time frequency representation allows location of SSAZs each of which represents a series of frequency adjacent TF points for which t is constant.

At block single source constant time analysis zones in the time frequency domain are detected. The single source constant time analysis zones in one implementation are a time frequency windows or zones in which one source is dominant over others. And if several sources are active in the same zone the assumption is that the signals from the two sources vary so that the moduli of at least two observations are linearly dependent. This allows processing of correlated sources contrary to classical statistic based DOA methods. In one implementation the single source constant time analysis zones are detected based at least on correlation coefficients confidence measures. In one implementation the correlation coefficients can be obtained using cross correlations and auto correlations between signals from pairs of sensing devices. The zones that do not meet predefined criteria are discarded. At block estimates of DOA for each source in each of the detected single source constant time analysis zones are derived. In one implementation DOA estimates may be based on d frequency components in each single source constant time analysis zone i.e. the use of those frequencies that correspond to the indices of the d highest peaks of the magnitude of the cross power spectrum over all or selected number of sensing devices. In another example the DOA estimates may be based on the strongest frequency component of the cross power spectrum of the pair of sensing devices in a single source constant time analysis zone giving us a single DOA for each single source constant time analysis zone. The number of DOA estimates per SSAZ may be based on a desired level of accuracy and computational efficiency.

At block a smoothed histogram is formed from the collection of DOA estimates. In one implementation several single source constant time analysis zones may lead to the same DOA as the isolated source is the same in each of them. Deriving the DOA for each sound source involves clustering the estimated DOAs which can be done by first forming a histogram from the set of estimations in a block of B consecutive frames and then by finding peaks in their histogram for the particular time frame. In one implementation a smoothed histogram can be obtained by applying Parzen windows or an average filter with a window of length h. In other implementations density function such as probability density function v of the estimated DOAs in each of the single source constant time analysis zones can be obtained. The density functions v can then be used to cluster one or more estimated DOAs and generate source specific DOAs.

At block the number of active sources circumflex over P and their DOAs are estimated from the smoothed histogram. In one implementation one of the source counting modules from amongst peak search module LPC module or matching pursuit module is selected and the sound sources are counted based at least on the combined DOA using the selected counting module. Other statistical methods for counting sources and or detecting peaks are contemplated by the present subject matter.

In one implementation the peak search module counts the number of active sources circumflex over P by performing a peak search on the smoothed histogram by using a static or non static peak threshold.

In another implementation the LPC module counts the number of active sources circumflex over P by applying LPC of an optimum order to the smoothed histogram of DOA estimates. The order of the LPC may be configurable based on the application. Further the LPC may be selected based on results from a variety of simulation scenarios.

In one implementation the LPC module emphasizes the peaks and suppresses any noisy areas such that the LPC envelope coincides with the envelope of the histogram. The LPC module generates the estimated number of active sources circumflex over P by counting the local maxima in the LPC envelope with a constraint for example circumflex over P P.

In certain scenarios a high order of LPC may over fit the histogram of estimates leading to an over estimation of the actual number of active sources. In some other scenarios a low order LPC risks the detection of less dominant sources i.e. the sources with less estimates in the histogram. For example a 16order LPC is considered optimum for source counting in an example.

In yet another implementation a matching pursuit module is used to generate an estimate of the number of active sources by picking the peaks of the smoothed histogram by correlation and then removing the contribution of each source. The process is repeated until the contribution of the source is insignificant according to a preset criteria and or a maximum number of active sources has been identified. The peaks are identified using one or more source atoms of an equal or variable width. The matching pursuit module also generates DOA estimation in real time. This is further explained in .

In one implementation the estimated number of active sources and corresponding refined DOA estimates can be displayed on a user interface in one or more formats such as graphs tables etc. Based on such data additional activities can be performed. For example accurate knowledge of the location of the source can be used to steer a camera or to enhance the capture of the desired source with beamforming. These are examples of some of the applications additional applications are possible as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

Referring to identification of one or more SSAZs is described. At block cross correlations and auto correlations of the magnitude of the time frequency transforms of signals x x from pairs of sensing devices can be determined. For example equation 5 may be used to determine cross correlation R between signals from microphone pair mm or adjacent pairs mm.

At block correlation coefficients confidence measure for signals from one or more pairs of sensing devices are derived. In one implementation correlation coefficient r may be as used as shown in equation 19.

At block one or more SSAZs where the correlation coefficient is above a user defined confidence threshold are identified. In one implementation inequalities defined in equations 7 and 8 may be implemented to pick single source constant time analysis zones. For example in one implementation a necessary and sufficient condition for a source to be isolated in an analysis zone is 1 1 . . . 20 Further in one implementation one or more constant time analysis zones that satisfy the following inequality as single source constant time analysis zones are determined where right arrow over r is the average correlation coefficient between pairs of observations of adjacent microphones and e can be a user defined threshold. right arrow over 1 1 . . . 21 Once the single source constant time analysis zones are defined the process either returns to block or detected single source constant time analysis zones may be saved in a database for future processing according to an embodiment.

Referring to at block a source count is initiated. For example a source counter variable may be assigned that is incremented to reflect presence of a newly identified source.

At block one or more source atoms are modeled. For example one or more source atom can be modeled as a smooth pulse such as that of a Blackman window having predetermined width widths. The choice of the width may determine resolution and or accuracy of the method. In one implementation wide source atoms may be used for lower signal to noise ratios and narrow source atoms may be used for higher signal to noise ratios. Alternatively or additionally for higher resolutions i.e. the ability to discriminate between two closely spaced sources narrower source atoms may be used. In one implementation the width may be varied dynamically either by a user or by environmental changes. In another implementation the width can be fixed to avoid costs associated with computational complexity. In yet another implementation variable widths can be implemented to provide a trade off between computational complexity and accuracy resolution. For example a two width method provides a good compromise between these constraints where a narrowed width can be used to pick the location of peak in a histogram of DOA estimates but a wider width is used for its contribution to the overall histogram and provide better performance at lower SNRs.

At block the modeled source atom is correlated with the histogram of DOA estimates. In one implementation the DOA estimates are collected and represented in a histogram. Alternatively the DOA estimates associated with selected frequency components or d strongest frequencies are obtained to form a histogram. Furthermore a smoothed histogram can be formed from the estimates of the current frame and B 1 previous frames.

At block direction of arrival of the source is estimated based at least on the correlation between DOA estimates and source atom s . In one implementation the direction of arrival corresponding to each source is estimated based on at least one of a minimum offset between neighboring located sources correlation between the smoothed histogram and the narrow source atom applied for peak detection and probability density function.

At block the contribution of the source is computed. In one implementation the contribution of the source is computed based at least on one of wider source atom and smoothed histogram.

At block the computed contribution at block is compared with a predetermined value of threshold for example relative energy of the source in question. In one implementation if it is determined that the contribution is less than or equal to the threshold No at block an estimated number of active sources and a real time value of DOA corresponding to the active source s for example as computed at block are generated corresponding to each of the identified sources at block and the process ends. However if it is determined the contribution is more than the threshold energy Yes at block the control transitions to block until the condition at block is met.

At block the contribution of the source is removed. The contribution for example is removed from the smoothed histogram.

At block the source count is compared with a maximum value of possible source count. In one implementation a maximum value of possible source count Pis known beforehand. If the source count is greater than P the control transitions to block however if the source count is less than or equal to P the source count is incremented at block and the process is repeated until conditions in block or block terminate the process.

The source count and direction of arrivals corresponding to each of the identified sources as obtained at block can be displayed on a user interface in the form of reports notifications alerts etc.

Even though describes source counting using matching pursuit module implementations using other modules such as peak search module and LPC module etc. are also possible as described previously.

Users e.g. A which may be people and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by the CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the SSC controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network hereinafter referred to as networks .

Networks are understood to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The SSC controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effectuate communications operations storage etc. The computer systemization may be connected to a power source e.g. optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally a cryptographic processor and or transceivers e.g. ICs may be connected to the system bus. In another embodiment the cryptographic processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices via the interface bus I O. In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols for example the antenna s may connect to a Texas Instruments WiLink WL5283 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 3.0 FM global positioning system GPS thereby allowing SSC controller to determine its location Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.1 in Bluetooth 2.1 EDR FM etc. a Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 receiver chip e.g. GPS an Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 e.g. providing 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications and or the like. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that may increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. It should be understood that in alternative embodiments any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves may incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the SSC controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount of speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed SSC system mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the SSC system may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the SSC system some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the SSC system component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the SSC system may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example SSC system features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of SSC system features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the SSC system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the operation of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational operators such as decoders or mathematical operations. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be circuit flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the SSC system may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate SSC controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the SSC system.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the SSC system thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through the communications network the SSC controller is accessible through remote clients B e.g. computers with web browsers by users A. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 500 5000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed SSC system architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the SSC controller . A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless transceivers 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices often are a type of peripheral device see below and may include card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of the SSC controller . Peripheral devices may include antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added capabilities e.g. crypto devices force feedback devices e.g. vibrating motors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices transceivers e.g. cellular GPS etc. video devices e.g. goggles monitors etc. video sources visors and or the like. Peripheral devices often include types of input devices e.g. cameras .

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the SSC controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the SSC controller . A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of the CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7500 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2500 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the SSC controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the operation of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism however such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory may include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser SSC database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the SSC component s the sparsifying component the cross correlation component the single source segment identification component the DOA estimation component the block based decision component the source counting component and the other component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the SSC controller . Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the SSC controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the SSC controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the SSC controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.526 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.526 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the SSC database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the SSC system database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the SSC system. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the SSC system as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access capabilities operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 528 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Also in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar operations of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the SSC system enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the SSC system.

Access to the SSC system mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces may allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component may facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash operation passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the SSC system may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the SSC system component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the SSC system and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The SSC database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the SSC database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of capabilities encapsulated within a given object. If the SSC database is implemented as a data structure the use of the SSC database may be integrated into another component such as the SSC system component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the SSC database component includes data tables A F. In one embodiment the users table A may include fields such as but not limited to user id ssn dob first name last name age state address firstline address secondline zipcode contact info contact type alt contact info alt contact type and or the like. The Users table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a SSC.

A Properties table B may include fields such as but not limited to property ID device model device serial number shape of microphones array number of microphones microphones relative positions microphones sensitivities microphones gains microphones electronics delays filters and or the like. The Properties table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a SSC.

An Options table C may include fields such as but not limited to option ID time frequency transformation method DOA estimaion method single source identification method cross correlation definition frequency range limits theresholds sources counting methods filters property ID user ID and or the like. The Options sent offers table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a SSC.

An Events table D may include fields such as but not limited to timestamp event ID channel signal estimated DOAs uncertainty duration frequency range moduli noise level active filters option ID property ID user ID and or the like. The Events table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on an SSC.

A DOA table E may include fields such as but not limited to timestamp DOA ID estimated DOA counted hits tolerance confidence level event ID and or the like. The DOA table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a SSC.

The other data table F includes all other data generated as a result of processing by modules within the SSC component . For example the other data F may include temporary data tables aggregated data extracted data mapped data etc. In one embodiment the SSC database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search SSC system component may treat the combination of the SSC database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the SSC system. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the SSC system may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components A F. The SSC system may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The SSC database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the SSC database communicates with the SSC system component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The SSC system component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the SSC system component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the SSC system that was discussed in the previous figures. As such the SSC system affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The SSC component may transform sound signals via SSC components into sound source s characterization information and or the like and use of the SSC. In one embodiment the SSC component takes inputs e.g. sound signals and or the like etc. and transforms the inputs via various components e.g. Sparsifying Component Cross Correlation Component Single Source Segment Identification Component DOA Estimation Component Block Based Decision Component Source Counting Component and or the like into outputs e.g. DOAs number of sources tolerance confidence and or the like .

The processing of signals for determination of source localization information may include but is not limited to representing the received signals in a time frequency domain by the sparsifying component detecting single source constant time analysis zones based at least on cross correlations and auto correlations between time frequency signals from various combinations of microphone pairs or adjacent pairs by Single Source Segment Identification Component estimating DOAs in the single source constant time analysis zones by the DOA Estimation Component generating and or smoothing of a histogram formed from a block of DOA estimates by Block Based Decision Component and estimating the number of active sources and or corresponding DOAs with one or more of source counting components for example a matching pursuit component a peak search component or a linear predictive coding component or any other Source Counting Component .

The SSC component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the SSC system server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The SSC system component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the SSC system component communicates with the SSC system database operating systems other program components and or the like. The SSC system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the SSC system node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the SSC controller may depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Jini local and remote application program interfaces JavaScript Object Notation JSON Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing capabilities which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components.

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. JSON SOAP and or like parsers that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration may depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment.

For example in some implementations the SSC controller may be executing a PHP script implementing a Secure Sockets Layer SSL socket server via the information sherver which listens to incoming communications on a server port to which a client may send data e.g. data encoded in JSON format. Upon identifying an incoming communication the PHP script may read the incoming message from the client device parse the received JSON encoded text data to extract information from the JSON encoded text data into PHP script variables and store the data e.g. client identifying information etc. and or extracted information in a relational database accessible using the Structured Query Language SQL . An exemplary listing written substantially in the form of PHP SQL commands to accept JSON encoded input data from a client device via a SSL connection parse the data to extract variables and store the data to a database is provided below 

Also the following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

In order to address various issues and advance the art the entirety of this application for SSC APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed present subject matters may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed present subject matters. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternative embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the present subject matter or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It may be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the present subject matters and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical operational organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the present subject matter and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other present subject matters not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed present subject matters including the right to claim such present subject matters file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical operational organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a SSC system individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the SSC system may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. For example aspects of the SSC system may be adapted for scoring executions in alternate trading systems. While various embodiments and discussions of the SSC system may have included reference to information security it is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be readily configured and or customized for a wide variety of other applications and or implementations.

