---

title: Apparatus, system and method for preventing data loss
abstract: A device and method are provided for a device that communicates security information to a user entering content into the device. In an aspect, the device may access content from a server over a connection through the network. The device displays the content on a user interface of the device. The device detects information entered into a field of the displayed content and evaluates a security state of the device. If the security state is below a security threshold and, if the entered information is identified as protected information based on stored criteria, the device displaying a visual indication on the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355254&OS=09355254&RS=09355254
owner: Blackberry Limited
number: 09355254
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130204
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 956 296 filed Nov. 30 2010. The entire contents of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 956 296 are hereby incorporated by reference.

This application relates to on line communications. In particular it relates to a device system and method for preventing data loss during on line communications.

Secure on line communications rely upon two communicating device to agree upon a security protocol exchange and validate security certificates to authenticate at least one of the devices and exchange encryption keys to establish a secure connection between the devices. The level of security for a particular secure connection can vary depending for instance upon the level of security protocol agreed upon the type of certificate authentication used by the device along with other factors.

Currently when a user is accessing an on line resource over a secure connection the state of the connection is identified by a small visual indication typically a padlock presented in the lower right portion of a browser window and the suffix s to the usual http address prefix to identify a secure website connection as https .

The indications help show that a secure connection has been established but do not indicate a level of security of the connection. Furthermore the indications are presented in an unobtrusive manner that may be missed by a user. Finally the indications are presented when a user directs their browser to an on line resource that requires a secure connection. The user s browser reacts to the requirements of the on line resource but does not itself act in a positive manner to protect a user s information.

It would be advantageous for a device system or method to alleviate some of the current problems relating to on line communications.

In an embodiment a method is provided for a computer processing device communicating security information the method comprising the computing device detecting content entered into a user input interface of the computing device the computing device evaluating a security state of the computing device and identifying the entered content as protected information based on criteria stored in one or more data stores accessible to the computing device and the computing device displaying a visual indication on a user display interface if the security state is below the security threshold and the entered content is identified as protected information.

In an aspect of the method the computing device may receive on line content from a server over a connection through a network and the computing device displays the content on the user display interface the displayed content including content entry fields to receive the entered information the computing device detecting the entered content by processing the displayed content based on the stored criteria to identify the content entered into the content entry fields as protected information.

In an aspect of the method the visual indication may comprise at least one of highlighting a content entry field containing the identified protected information or displaying a notice that the entered information comprises protected information and the security state is below the security threshold.

In an aspect of the method the notice may further comprise one or more user selectable options to allow access to the protected content.

In an aspect of the method the device may enter a protected mode when the security state is below the security threshold and the protected information has been identified the protected mode prohibiting transmission of the protected information from the computing device.

In an aspect of the method the protected information may be identified by the computing device performing at least one of the following operations matching the entered content with the criteria matching a content entry field identifier of the content entry field with the criteria or matching characteristics of the form of the entered content with the criteria.

In an aspect of the method the security threshold may comprise a minimum level of connection security between the computing device and a server connected to the computing device over a network.

In an aspect of the method at least one of the security threshold the one or more data stores or the criteria may be set by instructions received by the computing device from a host server connected to the computing device over a network.

In an aspect of the method the computing device may evaluate the security state of the device by determining whether an application in operation on the computing device to receive the entered content is trusted or untrusted.

In an embodiment a computer program product may be provided comprising non transitory memory containing instructions for execution by a processor of a computing device to render the computing device operative to perform the method.

In an embodiment a computing device may be provided for communicating security information the computing device may be operative to detect content entered into a user input interface of the computing device evaluate a security state of the computing device and identify the entered content as protected information based on criteria stored in one or more data stores accessible by the computing device and display a visual indication on a display interface of the computing device if the security state is below a security threshold and the entered content is identified as protected information.

In an aspect the computing device may be connected to a network and the computing device may be further operative to detect the entered content by the device being operative to receive on line content from a server over the connection display the received content on the display interface the displayed content including content entry fields to receive the entered information and process the displayed content based on the stored criteria to identify the entered information as protected information.

In an aspect the visual indication may comprise at least one of the content entry field highlighted on the user interface or a notice that the entered content comprises protected information and the security state is below the security threshold.

In an aspect the notice may further comprise one or more user selectable options for selection by a user the computing device further operative to require selection of the user selectable options to allow access to the displayed content.

In an aspect the computing device may be operative to enter a protected mode when the security state is below the security threshold the protected mode rendering the computing device inoperative to transmit the entered content from the computing device.

In an aspect the computing device may be operative to identify protected information by matching at least one of the following operations match the entered content with the criteria match a content entry field identifier of the content entry field with the criteria or match characteristics of the form of data entered by the user into the content entry field with the criteria.

In an aspect the computing device may be operative to connect to a server over a network and wherein the security threshold comprises a pre selected security threshold specifying a minimum level of connection security of the connection between the computing device and the server.

In an aspect the computing device may be operative to receive instructions to set the security threshold the criteria or the one or more data stores to be compared from a host server connected to the computing device over a network.

In an aspect the computing device may be operative to evaluate the security state of the device by determining whether an application in operation on the computing device to receive the entered content is trusted or untrusted.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented on a communication device such as that illustrated in . The communication device may communicate with other devices over a wireless communication system or enterprise system as illustrated in . The communication device may be a mobile device with two way communication and advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The communication device can also have voice communication capabilities.

The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this exemplary embodiment of the communication device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with one or more of Global System for Mobile Communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS EDGE or UMTS and optionally other network communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Other wireless networks can also be associated with the communication device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that can be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks third generation 3G networks like EDGE HSPA HSPA EVDO and UMTS or fourth generation 4G networks such as LTE and LTE Advanced. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems. The mobile device may be provided with additional communication subsystems such as the wireless LAN WLAN communication subsystem also shown in . The WLAN communication subsystem may operate in accordance with a known network protocol such as one or more of the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE. The communication subsystem may be separate from or integrated with the communication subsystem or with the short range communications module . The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone the short range communications and other device subsystems . The communication device may also be provided with an accelerometer which may be used to detect gravity or motion induced forces and their direction. Detection of such forces applied to the device may be processed to determine a response of the device such as an orientation of a graphical user interface displayed on the display assembly in response to a determination of the current orientation of which the device .

Some of the subsystems of the communication device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems can provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard can be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

A rendering circuit is included in the device . When a user specifies that a data file is to be viewed on the display the rendering circuit analyzes and processes the data file for visualization on the display . Rendering data files originally optimized or prepared for visualization on large screen displays on a portable electronic device display often requires additional processing prior to visualization on the small screen portable electronic device displays. This additional processing may be accomplished by the rendering engine . As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the rendering engine can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof and can comprise a dedicated image processor and associated circuitry or can be implemented within main processor .

The communication device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the communication device . To identify a subscriber the communication device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module or another suitable identity module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM card is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the communication device and to personalize the communication device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM card the communication device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM RUIM card into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services can include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services can include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM card includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM card is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM card can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM RUIM card is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM RUIM card can store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The communication device may be a battery powered device including a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the communication device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells can provide the power to the communication device .

The communication device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which can alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof can be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the communication device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the communication device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the communication device or some other suitable storage element in the communication device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages can be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the communication device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the communication device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items can be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the communication device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system. Some or all of the data items stored at the communication device may be indexed for searching on the device either through a corresponding application such as the PIM or another suitable module. In addition the items may be searchable using a unified search process implemented in the device operating system . For example application data items can be encapsulated in a searchable entity class and registered with a unified search engine on the device that executes searches against all registered data repositories on the device based on received queries. The search engine can also be configured to invoke a search process of external resources such as Internet search engines or remote databases.

The communication device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the communication device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the communication device is authorized to interface with. Examples of a wireless infrastructure and an enterprise system are given in which are described in more detail below.

The connect module includes a set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the communication device to allow the communication device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system or with other systems accessible over the network . The connect module allows the communication device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the communication device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the communication device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the communication device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the communication device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the communication device and can provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications can enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the communication device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the communication device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path can for example be used to load an encryption key onto the communication device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication. The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the communication device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the communication device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the communication device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem can include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber can also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem can include devices such as a touchscreen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard may be an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards can also be used. A composed item can be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem . It will be appreciated that if the display comprises a touchscreen then the auxiliary subsystem may still comprise one or more of the devices identified above.

For voice communications the overall operation of the communication device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which can perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter can be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The wireless link between the communication device and the wireless network can contain one or more different channels typically different RF channels and associated protocols used between the communication device and the wireless network . An RF channel is a limited resource that should be conserved typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and limited battery power of the communication device . When the communication device is fully operational the transmitter is typically keyed or turned on only when it is transmitting to the wireless network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly the receiver is periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods. Other communication subsystems such as the WLAN communication subsystem shown in may be provided with similar components as those described above configured for communication over the appropriate frequencies and using the appropriate protocols.

In a GSM network the MSC is coupled to the BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to satisfy circuit switched requirements. The connection through the PCU the SGSN and the GGSN to a public or private network Internet also referred to herein generally as a shared network infrastructure represents the data path for GPRS capable mobile devices. In a GSM network extended with GPRS capabilities the BSC also contains the Packet Control Unit PCU that connects to the SGSN to control segmentation radio channel allocation and to satisfy packet switched requirements. To track the location of the communication device and availability for both circuit switched and packet switched management the HLR is shared between the MSC and the SGSN . Access to the VLR is controlled by the MSC .

The station is a fixed transceiver station and together with the BSC form fixed transceiver equipment. The fixed transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The fixed transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile devices within its cell via the station . The fixed transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the communication device in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The fixed transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from the communication device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters can vary between different nodes. For example one node can employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other nodes.

For all communication devices registered with a specific network permanent configuration data such as a user profile is stored in the HLR . The HLR also contains location information for each registered mobile device and can be queried to determine the current location of a mobile device. The MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of the mobile devices currently in its area of responsibility in the VLR . Further the VLR also contains information on mobile devices that are visiting other networks. The information in the VLR includes part of the permanent mobile device data transmitted from the HLR to the VLR for faster access. By moving additional information from a remote HLR node to the VLR the amount of traffic between these nodes can be reduced so that voice and data services can be provided with faster response times and at the same time requiring less use of computing resources.

The SGSN and the GGSN are elements added for GPRS support namely packet switched data support within GSM. The SGSN and the MSC have similar responsibilities within the wireless network by keeping track of the location of each communication device . The SGSN also performs security functions and access control for data traffic on the wireless network . The GGSN provides internetworking connections with external packet switched networks and connects to one or more SGSNs via an Internet Protocol IP backbone network operated within the network . During normal operations a given communication device must perform a GPRS Attach to acquire an IP address and to access data services. This requirement is not present in circuit switched voice channels as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN addresses are used for routing incoming and outgoing calls. Currently all GPRS capable networks use private dynamically assigned IP addresses thus requiring the DHCP server connected to the GGSN . There are many mechanisms for dynamic IP assignment including using a combination of a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server and a DHCP server. Once the GPRS Attach is complete a logical connection is established from a communication device through the PCU and the SGSN to an Access Point Node APN within the GGSN . The APN represents a logical end of an IP tunnel that can either access direct Internet compatible services or private network connections. The APN also represents a security mechanism for the network insofar as each communication device must be assigned to one or more APNs and communication devices cannot exchange data without first performing a GPRS Attach to an APN that it has been authorized to use. The APN can be considered to be similar to an Internet domain name such as myconnection.wireless.com .

Once the GPRS Attach operation is complete a tunnel is created and all traffic is exchanged within standard IP packets using any protocol that can be supported in IP packets. This includes tunneling methods such as IP over IP as in the case with some IPSecurity Ipsec connections used with Virtual Private Networks VPN . These tunnels are also referred to as Packet Data Protocol PDP Contexts and there are a limited number of these available in the network . To maximize use of the PDP Contexts the network will run an idle timer for each PDP Context to determine if there is a lack of activity. When a communication device is not using its PDP Context the PDP Context can be de allocated and the IP address returned to the IP address pool managed by the DHCP server .

The host system comprises a number of network components connected to each other by a network . For instance a user s desktop computer with an accompanying cradle for the user s communication device is situated on a LAN connection. The cradle for the communication device can be coupled to the computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Other user computers are also situated on the network and each can be equipped with an accompanying cradle . The cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications from the user computer to the communication device and can be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing the communication device for use. The information downloaded to the communication device can include certificates used in the exchange of messages.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the user computers are typically also connected to other peripheral devices such as printers etc. which are not explicitly shown in . Furthermore only a subset of network components of the host system are shown in for ease of exposition and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the host system will comprise additional components that are not explicitly shown in for this exemplary configuration. More generally the host system can represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and can comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the exemplary embodiment of .

To facilitate the operation of the communication device and the wireless communication of messages and message related data between the communication device and components of the host system a number of wireless communication support components can be provided. In some implementations the wireless communication support components can include a message management server a mobile data server a web server such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP server a contact server and a device manager module . HTTP servers can also be located outside the enterprise system as indicated by the HTTP server attached to the network . The device manager module includes an IT Policy editor and an IT user property editor as well as other software components for allowing an IT administrator to configure the communication devices . In an alternative embodiment there can be one editor that provides the functionality of both the IT policy editor and the IT user property editor . The support components also include a data store and an IT policy server . The IT policy server includes a processor a network interface and a memory unit . The processor controls the operation of the IT policy server and executes functions related to the standardized IT policy as described below. The network interface allows the IT policy server to communicate with the various components of the host system and the communication devices . The memory unit can store functions used in implementing the IT policy as well as related data. Those skilled in the art know how to implement these various components. Other components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art. Further in some implementations the data store can be part of any one of the servers.

In this exemplary embodiment the communication device communicates with the host system through node of the wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to the host system can be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of the host system can operate from behind a firewall or proxy server . The proxy server provides a secure node and a wireless Internet gateway for the host system . The proxy server intelligently routes data to the correct destination server within the host system .

In some implementations the host system can include a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the host system and the communication device . The wireless VPN router allows a VPN connection to be established directly through a specific wireless network to the communication device . The wireless VPN router can be used with the Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 and IP based wireless networks. This protocol can provide enough IP addresses so that each mobile device has a dedicated IP address making it possible to push information to a mobile device at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it can be an off the shelf VPN component and does not require a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure. A VPN connection may be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection for delivering the messages directly to the communication device in this alternative implementation.

Messages intended for a user of the communication device are initially received by a message server of the host system . Such messages can originate from any number of sources. For instance a message can have been sent by a sender from the computer within the host system from a different mobile device not shown connected to the wireless network or a different wireless network or from a different computing device or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP for example.

The message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by the message server . Some exemplary implementations of the message server include a Microsoft Exchange server a Lotus Domino server a Novell Groupwise server or another suitable mail server installed in a corporate environment. In some implementations the host system can comprise multiple message servers . The message server can also be adapted to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

When messages are received by the message server they are typically stored in a data store associated with the message server . In at least some embodiments the data store can be a separate hardware unit such as data store with which the message server communicates. Messages can be subsequently retrieved and delivered to users by accessing the message server . For instance an e mail client application operating on a user s computer can request the e mail messages associated with that user s account stored on the data store associated with the message server . These messages are then retrieved from the data store and stored locally on the computer . The data store associated with the message server can store copies of each message that is locally stored on the communication device . Alternatively the data store associated with the message server can store all of the messages for the user of the communication device and only a smaller number of messages can be stored on the communication device to conserve memory. For instance the most recent messages i.e. those received in the past two to three months for example can be stored on the communication device .

When operating the communication device the user may wish to have e mail messages retrieved for delivery to the communication device . The message application operating on the communication device can also request messages associated with the user s account from the message server . The message application can be configured either by the user or by an administrator possibly in accordance with an organization s IT policy to make this request at the direction of the user at some pre defined time interval or upon the occurrence of some pre defined event. In some implementations the communication device is assigned its own e mail address and messages addressed specifically to the communication device are automatically redirected to the communication device as they are received by the message server .

The message management server can be used to specifically provide support for the management of messages such as e mail messages that are to be handled by mobile devices. Generally while messages are still stored on the message server the message management server can be used to control when if and how messages are sent to the communication device . The message management server also facilitates the handling of messages composed on the communication device which are sent to the message server for subsequent delivery.

For example the message management server can monitor the user s mailbox e.g. the message store associated with the user s account on the message server for new e mail messages and apply user definable filters to new messages to determine if and how the messages are relayed to the user s communication device . The message management server can also through an encoder not shown associated therewith compress message data using any suitable compression decompression technology e.g. YK compression JPEG MPEG x H.26x and other known techniques and encrypt messages e.g. using an encryption technique such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES and push them to the communication device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . The message management server can also receive messages composed on the communication device e.g. encrypted using Triple DES decrypt and decompress the composed messages re format the composed messages if desired so that they will appear to have originated from the user s computer and re route the composed messages to the message server for delivery.

Certain properties or restrictions associated with messages that are to be sent from and or received by the communication device can be defined e.g. by an administrator in accordance with IT policy and enforced by the message management server . These may include whether the communication device can receive encrypted and or signed messages minimum encryption key sizes whether outgoing messages must be encrypted and or signed and whether copies of all secure messages sent from the communication device are to be sent to a pre defined copy address for example.

The message management server can also be adapted to provide other control functions such as only pushing certain message information or pre defined portions e.g. blocks of a message stored on the message server to the communication device . For example in some cases when a message is initially retrieved by the communication device from the message server the message management server can push only the first part of a message to the communication device with the part being of a pre defined size e.g. 2 KB . The user can then request that more of the message be delivered in similar sized blocks by the message management server to the communication device possibly up to a maximum pre defined message size. Accordingly the message management server facilitates better control over the type of data and the amount of data that is communicated to the communication device and can help to minimize potential waste of bandwidth or other resources.

The mobile data server encompasses any other server that stores information that is relevant to the corporation. The mobile data server can include but is not limited to databases online data document repositories customer relationship management CRM systems or enterprise resource planning ERP applications. The mobile data server can also connect to the Internet or other public network through HTTP server or other suitable web server such as an File Transfer Protocol FTP server to retrieve HTTP webpages and other data. Requests for webpages are typically routed through mobile data server and then to HTTP server through suitable firewalls and other protective mechanisms. The web server then retrieves the webpage over the Internet and returns it to mobile data server . As described above in relation to message management server mobile data server is typically provided or associated with an encoder that permits retrieved data such as retrieved webpages to be decompressed and compressed using any suitable compression technology e.g. YK compression JPEG MPEG x H.26x and other known techniques and encrypted e.g. using an encryption technique such as DES Triple DES or AES and then pushed to the communication device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . While encoder is only shown for mobile data server it will be appreciated that each of message server message management server and HTTP servers and can also have an encoder associated therewith.

The contact server can provide information for a list of contacts for the user in a similar fashion as the address book on the communication device . Accordingly for a given contact the contact server can include the name phone number work address and e mail address of the contact among other information. The contact server can also provide a global address list that contains the contact information for all of the contacts associated with the host system .

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the message management server the mobile data server the HTTP server the contact server the device manager module the data store and the IT policy server do not need to be implemented on separate physical servers within the host system . For example some or all of the functions associated with the message management server can be integrated with the message server or some other server in the host system . Alternatively the host system can comprise multiple message management servers particularly in variant implementations where a large number of mobile devices need to be supported.

The device manager module provides an IT administrator with a graphical user interface with which the IT administrator interacts to configure various settings for the communication devices . As mentioned the IT administrator can use IT policy rules to define behaviors of certain applications on the communication device that are permitted such as phone web browser or Instant Messenger use. The IT policy rules can also be used to set specific values for configuration settings that an organization requires on the communication devices such as auto signature text WLAN VoIP VPN configuration security requirements e.g. encryption algorithms password rules etc. specifying themes or applications that are allowed to run on the communication device and the like.

Referring to an embodiment is illustrated where computing device comprises a mobile computing device that may access a wireless network for instance through node . In the embodiment illustrated mobile device includes a mobile data store which may comprise a secure data store.

The wireless network is connected to a public or private network which provides connectivity to host server . As illustrated in this embodiment host server may comprise a host data store . The host server may comprise a server within the host system or may comprise some other server providing instructions to computing device .

Also available on the network is an on line content server and a certificate authority . As illustrated in this embodiment the on line content server may comprise a content data store and the certificate authority may comprise an authority data store .

Depending upon the embodiment the host server on line content server and certificate authority may comprise different systems or the same system providing different functionality. A corporate embodiment for instance may include a host server for data storage and control of the mobile device as described above. A personal embodiment may include a host server that is transparent to the user or may exclude a host server entirely and rely upon the user for instructions or settings.

The certificate authority may comprise the host server or may comprise a third party Certificate Authority as illustrated in . The host server may maintain local copies of certificates and certificate authentication in host data store that may be periodically updated from a third party certificate authority .

In an embodiment mobile device may attempt to access content available from the on line content server . In the embodiment the device seeks to establish a secure connection for instance a unilateral TLS connection with the on line content server . A secure connection may comprise a connection in which at least one party to the connection for instance the on line content server is authenticated by the requesting party in this case device . A secure connection may further comprise establishing encryption keys shared between the two parties for instance through a Diffie Hellman key exchange after which communications over the secure connection may be encrypted. In some embodiments a secure connection may comprise the requesting party comparing the URL or IP address of the other party with a list of trusted parties maintained on the requesting device. After establishing a secure connection the device may download information from the on line content server to present an authentication portal to a user of the device.

Referring to an exemplary screen shot of an authentication portal is shown as typically constructed by conventional web browsers that may be shown for instance on a user interface of device . A web page as typically presented to a user includes a title bar at the top of the page. An address bar identifies the address of the web content being presented. One or more command toolbars include browser commands actionable by the user to direct the functionality of the browser to locate and view on line content. A content area comprises most of the area of the browser page where on line content is presented. The lower section of the page typically comprises an information bar that conveys information about the page to the user. In the example presented a lock icon is indicating to the user that this page is being viewed over a secure connection to the on line content server . The use of a lock icon is merely an example of information that may but not necessarily be presented in the information bar . Some browsers may not present any indication in the information bar when a web page is being accessed through a secure connection.

In the example of an authentication portal is presented with a user credential field and a user password field being presented for user input. In common usage the address bar and information bar convey information to the user that is intended to alert the user that this resource is safe to enter personal information as the lock icon is displayed in the information bar and the address bar includes the https prefix to the web address.

Typically a browser will enter into a secure connection if the protocol meets the minimum security settings allowed by browser settings. The browser settings are theoretically set by a user though more commonly consist of default settings for a particular security level chosen by a user. The browser settings generally apply to all web sites visited and do not automatically increase for websites that request personal information. A user can generally override default settings for instance to identify a particular website as SAFE or TRUSTED so that standard safeguards do not apply for that site. Once a user has categorized a web address the security settings of web pages accessed through that address typically remain at the same level though the content and level of interaction may change with time.

A common feature of web browsers is the AUTOFILL feature which identifies user input fields that have previously been filled in by the user and information previously supplied by the user is retrieved from storage and presented as an option for the user relieving the user of the necessity of entering the information themselves. illustrates a common type of AUTOFILL where a dropdown list of one or more entries is presented to the user for selection to enter into the credential field . In the example illustrated a single entry Credential 1 is being presented for selection by the user. The credential may also be entered into the credential field with user input such as typing input into a user interface of the device .

Typically a stored password associated with the selected entry will be automatically entered into the password field after the desired entry has been selected by the user. The password associated with the credential entered into the credential field may typically be retrieved from storage by the browser and entered into the password field . Passwords are typically displayed with wildcard digits such as in place of each actual password digit for security reasons. Passwords may also be entered into the password field with user input such as typing input into a user interface of the device .

In typical prior art embodiments the address bar and lock icon if present will only be visible when a user is entering information into the credential field and password field if a majority of the web page is viewable within a viewable area of a screen of the computing device being used to access the on line resource . On devices with smaller viewing screens the web page may not be completely visible for instance if the web page extends beyond a viewable portion of the screen. The prior methods rely upon a user to confirm the presence of a relatively small indication to identify that the connection is secure before entering personal information.

In the context of a mobile device with a more limited viewing screen the prior methods may further require a user to scroll about the available viewing area to locate such information on the web page since the mobile device screen is typically too small to include the entire web page . Furthermore in some browsers currently in use for mobile devices there is no address bar command toolbar or information bar included on the mobile web page being displayed. Typically a user is required to actuate a user input interface of the device such as a button to access a menu of command options for selection. In either case a state of the connection is typically not indicated to the user within the viewable area of the device when the credential field or password field is being presented to the user.

Referring to in a first embodiment the device is operative to alert the user to a security state of the device such as a state of the connection with the on line content server upon the content being entered that is identified by the device as protected information such as personal information or corporate data into data fields of a web page hosted by the on line content server . The device may identify protected information based upon criteria stored in one or more data stores accessible to the device. The data stores may comprise data stores resident on the device such as mobile data store or may comprise data stores accessible to the device over a network such as host server data store accessible over the public or private network .

The criteria may for instance comprise elements of content characteristics of the form of content such as number or type of characters content of identifiers for content entry fields soliciting input from a user or characteristics of an application soliciting content from a user. In the latter case the criteria may for instance require the device to determine whether the application is a trusted application for instance a corporate application identified by criteria specified by the host server or an untrusted application for instance a third party application unknown or unapproved by the corporation.

The computing device may detect entered content as protected information by matching the criteria to information related to the solicitation for content. For instance the computing device may match the entered content with specific content stored in one or more data stores accessible to the computing device . In an aspect a server in communication with the device may send the specific content for storage on the device to be used in the matching process. An example of this aspect may be key words known to a corporate entity such as confidential project names that would identify protected information. In an aspect the device may search data stores of the device such as a calendar mail program or address book for the specific content.

In the embodiment of a web page includes a title bar content area a credential field and a password field for receiving content from the user. Content entered into either the credential field or the password field may be identified as protected information by the device . The criteria may specify for instance the substance of the content entered into credential field such as the phrase Credential 1 shown in as protected information. Alternatively the criteria may specify that the credential field identifier User identifies a field that is soliciting protected information. In either case once the device detects the entry of protected information into the credential field in an embodiment the device may highlight the information as a highlighted credential to alert the user that protected information is being entered into a web page and the device is in a security state below the pre determined security threshold. The security state may be below the pre determined security threshold for instance as the device may not have established a secure connection with the on line content server that hosts the web page . The highlighted credential comprises a visual indication of the security state of the device such as a connection state or application state when a user is entering protected content into the device .

Similar to the example of the embodiment of includes a drop down list of possible user credentials generated by the browser for selection by a user of the device . The user credentials generated by the browser may comprise entered content. In the embodiment of however the credential generated by the browser that is available for selection is highlighted as a highlighted credential to alert the user that protected information is being entered into a web page and the device is in a security state below the pre determined security threshold. The highlighted credential provides the user with a visual indication that content generated by the browser and made available for selection is protected information and the security state of the device such as a connection state or application state is below the pre determined security threshold.

The security threshold may comprise minimum requirements for a secure connection as specified by the user initial default settings of the device or as specified by an IT policy sent to the device from the host system . By way of example the security threshold may require that the device has authenticated the on line content server verified a security certificate of the on line content server and or established an encrypted connection with the on line content server for instance by completing a TLS protocol between the device and the on line content server .

In an embodiment the device may determine whether or not to present a visual indication of the security state of the device when the connection state with the on line content server is below a security threshold and content entered by the user such as content entered into the credential field is identified by the device as being protected information. In the embodiment illustrated in credential field is being auto filled using a selection by the user from the drop down list . Credential field may also be filled for instance by a user typing in text. In either case the device is operative to identify the content as protected information and evaluate the security state of the device such as the connection state to determine that it is below a security threshold. Upon determining that protected information is being entered into credential field and that the connection state is below the security threshold the device presents a visual indication to the user.

In the embodiment of the visual indication comprises a highlighted credential . In another embodiment the visual indication may be more disruptive of the browsing experience to require the user to make an active selection before proceeding with submitting protected information through a connection or application which is below the security threshold.

Referring to in an embodiment the visual indication comprises a window that includes a warning and option buttons that may be selected by a user to proceed. In the embodiment illustrated the window includes a clear field button that will clear all user entered content when selected by the user. In an alternate embodiment depressing the clear field button will cause the device to clear the entered content identified by the device as protected information and entered content that has not been identified as protected information will remain entered for review by the user. A continue button clears the window and allows the user to proceed with submitting the protected information to the website. An exit page button may close the window or direct the user to a pre determined page such as a home page to directly navigate away from the web site. The exit page button may be useful for instance where a user is expecting a secure connection and decides to directly leave the web site.

In an embodiment the window may be combined with the highlighted credential to identify potential protected information to the user. In the embodiment the window may either be located so as to not obstruct the credential field or as indicated in the window may include the highlighted credential to provide additional information to assist the user in selecting an option button .

Referring to the device is operative to alert the user to a security state of the device such as a state of the connection with the on line content server upon the user entering content identified by the device as protected information into data fields of a web page hosted by the on line content server . In the embodiment of a web page includes content area a title bar a name field address fields city field phone number field credit card selection radio buttons selected and credit card field for receiving content from the user. Content entered into the fields may be identified as protected information by the device . Radio buttons and may be considered to constitute personal information when a button is selected depending upon the type of information conveyed by the selection. In an embodiment for instance the device may consider all financial information including a selected credit card company to be protected information.

In the embodiment of the device is operative to identify the name entered in name field as personal information and evaluate the security state of the device such as the connection state to determine that it is below a security threshold. Upon determining that personal information comprising protected information is being entered into credential field and that the connection state is below the security threshold the device presents a visual indication to the user. In the embodiment of the visual indication comprises a highlighting of the name field . Other forms of visual indication include the windows of .

In the embodiment of the device is operative to identify the name entered in the name field and the credit card number entered into credit card field as personal information of the user that is protected information evaluate the security state of the device such as the connection state to determine that it is below a security threshold and present a visual indication to the user that protected information has been entered and the connection is below the security threshold. In the embodiment of the visual indication comprises a highlighting of the name field and the credit card number field . Other forms of visual indication include the windows of .

Protected information may comprise personal information of the device user as may be identified from information stored in data stores accessible to the device . In an embodiment the personal information may be identified by the device by matching the field identifiers accompanying the fields such as the Credit Card No. identifier shown in . In the embodiment the device may be operative to scan the information presented by the web page and identify key phrases or identifiers that match a list of personal information identifiers maintained by the device . Content entry fields adjacent to personal information identifiers may be flagged by the device before a user has entered content into the field. Upon entry of content into the field the device may evaluate the security state of the device and provide a visual indication to the user if the security state is below the pre determined threshold.

In an embodiment the device may be operative to identify potential protected information including personal information based upon characteristics of the content entered by the user or the form of the content fields presented by the device . In for instance the credit card number field comprises four discrete content entry fields each containing numeric digits. The device may be operative to identify this arrangement of information as potentially comprising financial information and flag the information as being deemed protected information. Upon entry of content that is flagged as being deemed protected information the device may evaluate the security state of the device and provide a visual indication to the user if the security state is below the pre determined threshold. In the embodiment characteristics of the form of the data entered by the user is retained within a store accessible to the device .

Accordingly the device may be operative to identify protected information based upon matching entered information content entry field identifiers and or characteristics of the form of data entered by the user into a user input interface of the device with criteria stored in one or more data stores accessible to the device .

In an embodiment the device may receive content from a remote system such as host server the content comprising identifying content for identifying content that should be protected by the device . By way of example the remote system may comprise a corporate server and the identifying content may comprise a list of terms or phrases that describe sensitive corporate content that the corporation would like to protect. In the embodiment the device is operative to include the identifying content received from the remote system as criteria when monitoring entered content for protected information.

In an embodiment the entered content may be identified as protected information when a measure of protected information has been detected by the device that exceeds a protected information threshold. Criteria stored in the one or more data stores may comprise both an identifier to identify information entered into the user input interface and a weight for the sensitivity of the information. The weight may vary with the type of information being entered into each content entry field. Financial information for instance may be considered of higher weight than address information.

The device may be operative to receive user input setting a weight of information the device has identified as being potential personal information that should be protected. In an embodiment the weight may be imposed upon the device by a remote server such as host server . In the example of a corporate server above the device may receive identifying content and corresponding weights from the remote system.

The device may in an embodiment be operative to identify entered content as protected information when the amount of entered content modified by the weight for each type of information exceeds the protected information threshold. Accordingly more low weight information would need to be entered into the content entry fields before the device interrupts the user by presenting the visual indication. By way of example financial information such as a credit card number may be considered of sufficient weight to merit presentation of the visual indication when it is the only content being entered.

In an embodiment in addition to the visual indication described above the device may further be operative to enter a protected mode of operation when a match is made between entered content and searched information and a security state of the device is below the pre determined threshold. In the protected mode of operation the device may be rendered inoperative to send information to the on line content server until the user has cleared the operation by selecting the appropriate option button for instance the continue button in the embodiment of or . The protected mode of operation may for instance prohibit HTTP POST operations. Once the user has cleared the operation the device may revert from the protected mode of operation to a normal mode of operation that renders the device operative to send information to the on line content server . The normal mode of operation for instance allows HTTP POST operations.

In an embodiment the device determines that information entered into credential field is protected information that should be protected by the device by comparing the entered content with criteria stored in one or more data stores. The data stores may be resident on the device or in an embodiment may be accessible through a network connection to a trusted server such as host server .

The device may search the one or more data stores upon detecting a connection below the security threshold and the user or an auto fill function of the browser entering information into a field of a web page. The device may search the one or more data stores for criteria. In an embodiment the data stores to be searched may be selected by the user or may be determined by an instruction received for instance from host system or host server . In an embodiment the one or more data stores may comprise general data stores such as a calendar address book owner information messages custom dictionary or other information store. In the embodiment the data stores are general information data stores that may include personal information.

In an embodiment the device may compare the entered content with the contents of a personal information data store of the device . The personal information data store containing personal information either entered directly by the user for the purpose of identifying sensitive personal information to be protected or may comprise information collected from the user that has been identified as personal information by the device . The device may for instance collect user credentials previously entered by the user to be stored in the personal information data store. The device may for instance also collect information such as address information financial information contact information or other information for storage in the personal information data store. The information may be collected by the device identifying the type of content being entered by a user from field headings presented by a web page to identify the intended information to be entered into a field. The content may be collected by the device identifying the type of information being entered by a user from meta data included in the web page content downloaded from the on line content server .

In an embodiment the device may maintain a list or table of protected information as the criteria. The list may be built from information collected by the device including by searching data stores accessible to the device or from identifying content received by the device from a remote server such as host server . The device may retain the list in a secure store of the device . Upon detecting a user entering content through a user input interface the device may compare the entered content with the list to identify protected information. In an aspect the device may be operative to compare content field identifiers from web pages rendered by the device and to compare the content field identifiers with the list to identify content fields that may be seeking protected information from the user.

In an embodiment the security state of the device may be dependent upon a nature of an application executed on the device . In an aspect a non trusted application may comprise an insecure state of the device and the device may be operative to monitor the user input interface for content entered by the user that may comprise protected information when the device is in the insecure state. In such a fashion the device may be operative to monitor non trusted applications executed on the device that may solicit protected information from the user. The device may in an embodiment compare entered content with the stored criteria such as the list of protected information when a non trusted application is executed on the device .

In an embodiment the security threshold comprises a pre selected level of security. A user may enter the pre selected level of security into the device or the device may receive the pre selected level of security for instance as an instruction from host system through the wireless network . The security state of the device may be determined by the settings of the secure connection established between the device and the on line content server . The settings may include the certificate of the on line content server and the specified public key encryption algorithm a minimum encryption key length a certificate state of the certificate of the on line content server a certificate expiry date of the certificate of the on line content server a certificate trust of the certificate of the on line content server or a session key strength of the security protocol established between the device and the on line content server .

The systems and methods disclosed herein are presented only by way of example and are not meant to limit the scope of the subject matter described herein. Other variations of the systems and methods described above will be apparent to those in the art and as such are considered to be within the scope of the subject matter described herein. For example it should be understood that steps and the order of the steps in the processing described herein may be altered modified and or augmented and still achieve the desired outcome.

The systems and methods data may be stored in one or more data stores. The data stores can be of many different types of storage devices and programming constructs such as RAM ROM flash memory programming data structures programming variables etc. It is noted that data structures describe formats for use in organizing and storing data in databases programs memory or other computer readable media for use by a computer program.

Code adapted to provide the systems and methods described above may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that a module or processor includes but is not limited to a unit of code that performs a software operation and can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

