---

title: Method and apparatus for cognitive nonlinear radar
abstract: A method and apparatus for cognitive non-linear radar processing comprising identifying one or more frequency bands of interest, passively scanning, using a non-linear radar (NR), the one or more frequency bands of interest to determine whether interference signals are occupying the one or more bands, transmitting radar waveforms and receiving radar waveform responses at one or more frequency bands determined to be free of interference, determining a likelihood of a target being present or not based on whether the received waveform responses match stored waveform responses for non-linear targets, and modifying waveform parameters of the transmitted radar waveform when the received waveform responses match the stored waveform responses, so as to transmit a modified radar waveform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09435882&OS=09435882&RS=09435882
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09435882
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130827
---
Governmental Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to target detection using radar and more particularly to a method and apparatus for cognitive nonlinear radar.

Ground based and airborne radar systems are often used to detect objects in a specified area by using radio waves to determine the range altitude direction and speed of the objects. These radar systems can be used to detect aircrafts automobiles guided missiles terrain or the like. In a transmission mode of operation radar systems emit radio waves or microwaves which are reflected from any objects within their path of travel. In a reception mode of operation the radar systems detect the energy of the reflected waves for determining the range altitude direction and speed of targets. However in environments cluttered with electromagnetic EM activity distinguishing targets of genuine interest from electromagnetic clutter becomes difficult.

Nonlinear radar NR addresses some of these problems when monitoring RF activity in a particular area or application. For example NR produces response frequencies from nonlinear targets e.g. electronics or metal objects that are different from those transmitted by linear radar thereby allowing a way to distinguish natural clutter from the response of nonlinear targets. NR has also been used in military operations to detect concealed weapons electronics and other man made objects in addition to device detection for FCC part compliance.

NR is used in insect tracking where insects are fitted with nonlinear tags and tracked to study movement and foraging behavior. However NR still falls short in adapting to an increasingly cluttered EM environment or other radar communication and electronic systems which required interference free operation.

Therefore there is a need in the art for implementing NR to adapt to and co exist in the EM environment.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method for cognitive non linear radar processing comprising identifying one or more frequency bands of interest passively scanning using a non linear radar NR the one or more frequency bands of interest to determine whether interference signals are occupying the one or more bands transmitting radar waveforms and receiving radar waveform responses at one or more frequency bands determined to be free of interference signals determining whether the received waveform responses match stored waveform responses for non linear targets and modifying waveform parameters of the transmitted radar waveform when the received waveform responses match the stored waveform responses so as to transmit a modified radar waveform.

Embodiments of the present invention further relate to an apparatus for cognitive non linear radar processing comprising one or more passive receivers to scan one or more frequency bands of interest to determine whether interference signals are occupying the one or more bands of interest a radar transmitter to transmit radar waveforms and receive radar waveform responses at one or more frequency bands free of interference and a cognitive processor that determines whether the received waveform responses match stored waveform responses for non linear targets and modifies waveform parameters of the transmitted radar waveform when the responses match stored responses so as to transmit a modified waveform.

The cognitive non linear radar CNR processing system utilizes a narrowband non linear radar target detection methodology that adapts to the radio frequency RF environment of a detection area by intelligently selecting waveform parameters using machine learning algorithms. The machine learning algorithms optimize radar waveform parameters based on EM interference the likelihood of target detection and classification and permissible transmit frequencies.

The system first passively scans the environment for RF interference no radar operation . The spectrum sensing sub system and the brain or optimizer then determines the best frequencies that the radar can transmit and receive at. The passive scanning is disengaged and the radar then transmits and receives. The passive scanning is re engaged while the received radar signal is processed for a target. The new passive scan and the results of processed radar signal are sent to the optimizer that determines the next best waveform. This process reiterates until the likelihood of a target very likely or not very likely is determined. This process is described in further detail below.

The radar receiver and the passive receivers are coupled as input to the computer . The transmitter determines transmission frequency bands based on processing performed by the computer . The passive receivers scan a predetermined RF band of interest and sub bands within the RF band. Those of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the predetermined sub bands of interest are fine tuned for specific applications. In some embodiments the sub bands may be based for example on input data from the computer or from externally controlled information such as manually input information or the like.

The passive receivers passively sense a spectrum of the RF environment to detect electromagnetic EM interference. In some embodiments multiple passive receivers are implemented to measure multiple bands channels of interest simultaneously. Multiple receivers may also reduce the time required to measure multiple frequency bands of interest. The signals received by passive receivers are then coupled to the computer for applying spectrum sensing techniques for processing passive measurements for noise interference and RF signals operating in the RF environment in order to transmit radar waveforms and receive radar waveform responses at one or more frequency bands determined to be free of interference. The passive receivers . . . M supply the optimization module with interference locations so the radar transmitter and the radar receiver can avoid those frequencies.

The computer identifies frequency bands outside of and therefore free of the interference noise and other signals. Subsequently the computer controls the receiver and the transmitter to receive and transmit previously stored waveforms in the identified frequency bands until the presence or absence of a nonlinear target is determined with high confidence i.e. the cost of the transmission has been reduced below a predetermined threshold.

The computer comprises a processor various support circuits and memory . The processor may include one or more microprocessors known in the art. The support circuits for the processor include conventional cache power supplies clock circuits data registers I O interface and the like. The I O interface may be directly coupled to the memory or coupled through the support circuits . The I O interface may also be configured for communication with input devices and or output devices such as network devices various storage devices mouse keyboard display video and audio sensors IMU RF receivers and RF transmitters or the like.

The memory or a computer readable medium stores non transient processor executable instructions and or data that may be executed by and or used by the processor . These processor executable instructions may comprise firmware software and the like or some combination thereof. Modules having processor executable instructions that are stored in the memory comprise a cognitive processing module and a database .

As described below in an exemplary embodiment the cognitive processing module comprises a classification module a spectrum sensing module . an SNR module a parameter module and a feature module . The computer may be programmed with one or more operating systems which may include OS 2 Java Virtual Machine Linux SOLARIS UNIX HPUX AIX WINDOWS IOS and ANDROID among other known platforms. According to some embodiments the computer may be remotely coupled to the radar receiver the passive receivers and the transmitter through a network. In other embodiments the computer is coupled to the receivers and transmitters through a wired network or directly coupled through other means.

The memory may include one or more of the following random access memory read only memory magneto resistive read write memory optical read write memory cache memory magnetic read write memory and the like as well as signal bearing media as described below.

According to exemplary embodiments once the passive radar receivers scan the RF spectrum for receiving noise and interference signals in the environment these received signals are processed by the cognitive processing module . The spectrum sensing module processes the received signals from the passive receivers for measuring noise interference and RF signals operating in the RF environment so that the radar transmitter and receiver can operate in bands that are outside of bands that include these preexisting signals.

The optimization module accesses the database to retrieve particular waveform responses of targets of interest that may be in the environment. The retrieved waveforms are transmitted by the radar transmitter . The radar receiver measures the RF environment in response to the transmitted waveform. Potential target information or features is extracted from the received signal by the feature module . The signal to noise ratio SNR module estimates the signal to noise ratio of the received signal using the extracted features from the feature module and the received interference and noise from the passive receivers .

The classification module performs target detection and classification using the signal produced from the SNR module along with a priori target information such as the amplitude of the harmonics generated by the target in order to detect and classify targets of interest. The parameters for the transmitted waveform i.e. amplitude frequency phase modulation etc are optimized by the optimization module based on target detection likelihood noise and interference power levels and permissible transmit frequencies as specified by the database .

The computer then selects a waveform and transmits the waveform via the radar transmitter . Modification of the waveform parameters by the optimization module and transmission of modified waveforms by the transmitter is then reiterated until the presence or absence of a nonlinear target is determined with a predetermined level of confidence. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the predetermined level of confidence is determined according to the specific application. Varied levels of confidence may be considered acceptable in various applications and those of ordinary skill in the art will be aware of the confidence needed. The optimization module also processes an estimated power spectrum of the received signals to identify the frequencies of interference and noise at low power levels. The estimated power spectrum is used in part to select the transmit frequency for the next iteration.

The RF environment is passively scanned for noise RF interference and known RF system waveforms revealing signals which are considered interference signals. Radar waveform parameters are then selected based on RE interference and noise power levels of the interference signals revealed during from the passive scan to develop potential transmitter and receiver frequencies for example the frequencies specified at points and . Both transmitter and receiver frequencies are considered since the nonlinear target produces frequencies different from those transmitted by the radar transmitter . Radar waveform parameters are also selected based on a priori target information provided by database by the optimization module . Selection of the radar waveform parameters is performed by adaptive algorithms specifically a genetic algorithm designed to solve a multi objective optimization problem as described in further detail below with respect to .

A radar probe signal is then transmitted so as to illuminate the environment and a radar response is received by radar receiver and measured by computer . The measured radar response is then processed for a nonlinear response by the cognitive processing module indicating the presence or absences of a TOI. New radar waveform parameters are selected for the next iteration based on a passive measure of RF interference and noise a priori target and database information from database and the likelihood of there being a TOI based on the previous iteration. Therefore for a given iteration the frequency of the new radar waveform can change to a new sub band for example the frequency indicated at in sub band to verify the TOI.

The power spectrum estimate generated by the power spectrum estimation module is then used in conjunction with features extracted by the classification module from the radar receiver information to estimate SNR using the SNR module shown in for target detection and classification. Finally the signal detection module detects potential communication and other RF signals operating in the RF environment. The signal detection module accesses the database for known RF system waveform types. The output of the signal detection module couples to the optimization module as shown in to consider potential communication and other RF signals to avoid interfering with RF systems by modifying waveform parameters of the transmitted signal.

Once the likelihood of the features is accessed a template module coupled to database classifies the feature to identify a target type based on templates stored in database . Common classification methodologies include Bayesian discriminate functions nearest neighbor classifiers support vector machines SVM neural networks tree based algorithms and unsupervised learning algorithms. Finally the cost module assigns costs to frequencies based on the classification label from the template module .

For example consider the situation where Target is identified by the classifier with medium likelihood i.e. there is a medium likelihood that the waveforms of the signals received by the passive receivers matches waveforms stored in database . The objective of the classification module is to achieve a high likelihood of Target . According to one embodiment the likelihood of Target may be increased by transmitting frequencies in bands where Target is known to respond. The cost module therefore assigns low costs to Target I transmit frequencies and high costs to target transmit frequencies that do not include Target . The cost information is provided to the optimization module .

After target detection and classification by the classification module the optimization module is used to determine parameters of a new transmit frequency and other waveform parameters based on the frequency cost information determined by the cost module permissible transmit frequencies provided by the database and available transmit frequencies provided by the spectrum sensing module .

The optimization module must minimize multiple objective functions that are non commensurable. The formulation of the multi objective optimization problem is as follows for a given decision variable vector . . . in the solution space X the optimizer must find a vector that minimizes a set of k objective functions z z . . . z . Objective functions as related to radar systems include SNR system power consumption frequency costs as provided by the target detection and classification scheme occupied bandwidth computational complexity. The decision variables related to radar systems include frequency signal power bandwidth modulation type and pulse repetition interval PRI among others.

Given multiple objective functions the optimization problem is formulated as a multi objective optimization problem. Solutions to multi objective optimization problems consist of finding the Pareto optimal set a surface of non dominated solutions. Non dominated solutions are determined based on their superiority to all other solutions in the solution space. The set of non dominated solutions are optimal because the solutions are neither superior nor inferior to one another. According to one embodiment of the present invention genetic algorithms are used to solve the multi objective optimization problem i.e. matching and classifying waveform responses with stored waveform patterns from database in the present application.

Those of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that many different algorithms may be used in place of genetic algorithms and genetic algorithms merely present an exemplary processing technique for determining optimal waveform parameters given interference patterns. Genetic algorithms search difference regions of the solution space in parallel allowing for complex solutions with non convex discontinuous and multi modal solution spaces. The search method used by genetic algorithms is randomized and therefore permits a rapid global solution and avoids losing potential non optimal solutions.

The basic procedure of a genetic algorithm is described below. A set or population of N solutions is randomly generated. The solutions in the population are binary strings of chromosomes. The fittest chromosomes in the population are identified using a fitness measure which is dependent on the objective functions. Crossover is then used to mix or mate two chromosomes by splitting each chromosome at a random point then attaching the end of one chromosome to the end of the other chromosome. Mutation is then used to switch a bit in the chromosome at a random location. A new population i.e. the next generation is formed after the crossover and mutation process. The chromosomes in the new population are evaluated for fitness and non dominated solutions are identified if any exist. A stopping criterion is finally evaluated to determine if the new population meets the requirements of the optimization process.

At step . the method identifies frequency bands and sub bands of interest in the RF spectrum. In some instances the bands of interest may be supplied from the database . In other instances users of the apparatus may manually indicate which frequency bands of interest and sub bands of interest are to be used by the method .

The method proceeds to step where the passive receivers passively scan the one or more sub bands of interest to determine if there is any interference present on those sub bands. For example if there are linear targets that respond to radar signals transmitted at the one or more sub bands of interest the receivers will receive the responses and determine that a particular sub band of interest is not available for transmitting or receiving because of these pre existing signals. The target may be interference from another RF system a non linear target such as electromagnetic clutter from metallic and electronic objects and components or other interfering objects. Once all of the interference has been identified in the sub bands of interest the method proceeds to step .

At step the CNR transmits waveforms in the non interfering sub bands of interest from the transmitter and receives response waveforms at the receiver . The transmitted waveforms are waveforms of known objects of interest and targets of interest stored in database . At step the cognitive processing module determines whether the waveforms at either harmonic frequencies of the original transmitting frequency or other types of response frequencies match the waveforms stored in the database .

According to exemplary embodiments the waveform matches are determined using well known target detection and classification algorithms. For example signal to noise ratios of the received responses are estimated by the SNR module using features of the response extracted by the feature module . The amplitude and other parameters of the harmonics generated by a target is used along with the SNR estimates to classify the features of the response using the classification module and classify targets of interest.

At step if the response waveforms matched the known stored waveforms of interfering objects i.e. non linearities parameters of the transmitted waveforms are modified by the optimization module . In some embodiments the modified parameters comprise one or more of frequency amplitude phase or the like. The method then retreats to step essentially repeating steps through until signal to noise ratio is increased to a predetermined threshold and the CNR has determined one or more frequency sub bands of interest to transmit over freely that is without interference . At step if it is determined whether or not a target is present with a confidence greater than a predetermined threshold confidence the method terminates at step . In other instances the method of re iterates.

The foregoing description purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various elements devices modules and circuits are described above in associated with their respective functions. These elements devices modules and circuits are considered means for performing their respective functions as described herein. While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

