---

title: Cognitive radio methodology, physical layer policies and machine learning
abstract: A method and system of cognitive communication for generating non-interfering transmission, includes conducting radio scene analysis to find grey spaces using external signal parameters for incoming signal analysis without having to decode incoming signals. The disclosed cognitive communications system combines the areas of communications, signal processing, pattern classification and machine learning to detect the signals in the given spectrum of interests, extracts their features, classifies the signals in types, learns the salient characteristics and patterns of the signal and predicts their future behaviors. In the process of signal analysis, a classifier is employed for classifying the signals. The designing of such a classifier is initially performed based on selection of features of a signal detected and by selecting a model of the classifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08929936&OS=08929936&RS=08929936
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08929936
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130628
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. W15P7T 05 C P033 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Administration DARPA . The United States Government has certain rights in this application.

This application claims rights under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 905 637 filed Mar. 8 2007 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to cognitive communications and more particularly to methods of signal processing communications pattern classification and machine learning which are employed to make a dynamic use of the spectrum such that the emanated signals do not interfere with the existing ones.

There are an increasing number of telecommunication services being proposed which if fully implemented could use up the allocated frequency spectrum. It is important to be able to provide such services without one service interfering with the other. If a service occupies the same frequency at the same time there is a possibility of interference between the services which results in spectrum conflicts.

As will be described so called cognitive radios which may employ software defined radio platforms are capable of tailoring the transmitted output from the radio. With the advent of software defined radios it is possible to alter the modulation type frequency and the time of transmission to guarantee the transmission will not interfere with existing signals. Such radios may be adjusted for instance to inhibit transmission during times in which other signals exist. The signals from the software defined radios can also be controlled to emit non interfering modulation formats. Programs such as the Next Generation XG communications funded by the Defense Advance Research Projects Agency DARPA propose systems where from radio scene analysis one finds spectrum holes or White space which defines where signals may be transmitted without interference with other signals. Thus White space refers to spaces that are not occupied by a signal.

While such systems create conditions for transmission such that the transmitted signal does not interfere with other existing signals spectrum utilization with such techniques is somewhat limited.

As will be discussed and as part of the subject invention it has been found that there are so called Gray spaces where signals only partially occupy the signal space. If it were possible to be able to detect not only White spaces but also Gray spaces then the spectrum could be more fully utilized assuming that one could transmit non interfering signals in the White and Gray spaces.

Moreover by analyzing the signal space for existing signals and providing predictors as to the future behavior of these signals one can accurately predict future White space and Gray space. This permits robust tailoring of the transmitted signals so as not to interfere either with future signals.

More specifically as telecommunications equipment evolves in capability and complexity and Multiple Input and Multiple Output MIMO and Multi User Detection MUD systems push the system throughput to its limits it is not going to be too long before cognitive radios will reach the market place J. Mitola Ph. D. Thesis Royal Institute of Technology Sweden Spring 2000 and S. Haykin Cognitive Radio Brain Empowered Wireless Communications . vol. 23 no. 2 pp. 201 220 February 2005 .

In fact the IEEE 802.22 Working Group IEEE Working Group 802.22 http grouper.ieee.org groups 802 22 on Wireless Regional Area Networks WRANs has been looking to develop a standard for a cognitive radio based PHY MAC air interface for use by license exempt devices on a non interfering basis in spectrum that is allocated to the TV Broadcast Service on Wireless Regional Area Networks WRAN . Ad hoc groups under the Project Authorization Request PAR approved by the IEEE SA Standards Board have started developing a cognitive radio based PHY MAC air interface for use by license exempt devices on a non interfering basis in spectrum that is allocated to the TV Broadcast Service. Moreover cognitive radios will help the commercial as well as the military communication systems by doing away with the need for comprehensive frequency planning. It is contemplated cognitive radios will be capable of sensing their environment making decisions on the types of signals present learning the patterns and choosing the best possible method of transmitting the information. They will be situation aware and capable of making decisions to ensure error free and smooth transfer of bits between the users. Cognitive radios will be based on software defined radio SDR platforms and will try to understand not only what the users want but also what the surrounding environment can provide.

The present invention makes use of some of the recent advances in cognitive communications in which signal processing communications pattern classification and machine learning are combined to make a dynamic use of the spectrum such that the emanated signals do not interfere with existing ones or ones projected to exist.

It is the purpose of the subject invention to conduct a radio scene analysis to ascertain existing signals in the signal space and to predict where the signals will exist in the future. Taking this information the subject system predicts holes corresponding to White space or Gray space. Then the cognitive radio or software defined radio is configured to transmit signals in the unoccupied part of the spectrum which permits increased use of the spectrum. The signal transmission is not limited to the White or the Gray space in the spectrum but to unoccupied or partially occupied signal space where the signal space may consist of Space Time Frequency Spectrum Code and Location.

In one embodiment the subject system uses signal detection feature identification signal classification sub space tracking adaptive waveform design machine learning and sophisticated prediction algorithms to predict the behavior of existing signals and tailor emitted signals to avoid interference. This can be accomplished by inhibiting transmissions at certain frequencies and at certain times where existing signals are projected to exist or to change the modulation type at selected times and for selected frequencies.

The subject system makes use of the Gray space as well as the White space for non interfering signal transmission. Gray space is a space that is partially occupied by a signal. For example a Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum DSSS signal with a spreading code of 4 chips can accommodate four different users using conventional signal processing techniques. However if only one user is using the network at a time then this forms a Gray space since the given spectrum is only partially used and it can accommodate three more users. Gray space can similarly be defined for other signal types.

The subject system adapts machine perception and Autonomous Machine Learning AML technologies to the autonomous detection and analysis of air interfaces. The underlying premise is that a learning module will facilitate adaptation in the standard classification process so that the presence of new types of waveforms can be detected features that best facilitate classification of the previously and newly identified signals can be determined and waveforms can be generated by using a basis set orthogonal to the ones present in the environment. Incremental learning and prediction allows knowledge enhancement as more snap shots of data are processed resulting in improved decisions.

In summary in a method for cognitive communication conducting radio scene analysis is used to find spectrum holes as well as space for non interfering signal transmission.

Prior to a more detailed description of the subject invention through the utilization of cognitive radio one can both detect the signal environment predict future signal environments and then tailor the output of the radio s transmitter to provide non interfering signals. A system for detecting White and Gray spaces becomes increasingly important with the allocation of the VHF band below 700 Megahertz. When this allocation becomes implemented commercial companies can use it for unlicensed use for instance to provide WiFi services. This portion of the spectrum will not be regulated in the sense of being licensed but rather can be utilized on an unlicensed basis. It therefore becomes important that this portion of the spectrum for which primary signals such as TV signals microphone signals and other signals that might exist be protected by providing cognitive radios to make sure that the existing signals are not interfered with or trampled on. In short the so called primary providers or primary users must be protected from interference.

As mentioned above cognitive radios are radios that have the ability to sense the environment and this sensing can occur in two domains. It can be at a physical and lower layer involving physical and medium access control or it could be at a high level.

From a physical layer point of view the minimum capability that the cognitive radio should have is that it should be able to sense the environment for example the spectrum and go into a particular spectrum to try to figure out whether the spectrum is occupied or not occupied. While such capabilities have existed in the past in the subject invention one is not just ascertaining whether the spectrum is occupied or not occupied but rather the system ascertains what exactly the spectrum contains and what kind of signals exist. This is because sometimes one can have certain signals that would indicate that the entire spectrum is occupied and cannot be used. However it is possible under certain circumstances that the so called fully occupied spectrum is usable.

For instance it may happen that a signal comes on only 10 percent of the time and 90 percent of the time the signal does not occupy the signal space. If one could ascertain the 90 percent quiet time for instance by using machine learning and other signal processing algorithms to figure out whether the spectrum is occupied what kind of signals are present in it what the behavioral pattern of the signals are and how the signals may be classified then the subject invention provides a way for a radio to transmit signals which do not interfere with the existing or projected signals in the signal space.

For instance classification of the signals can determine whether these signals belong to a time division multiplex system or a frequency division or code division multiplex system and from the behavioral pattern one can predict if one can use the spectrum or not.

As defined above White space is defined as a signal space which is completely unoccupied. One can detect the signal space and see whether or not signals exist in that space. If not White space is detected and unregulated signals can be transmitted in this space.

From a physical perspective if for instance a signal is being projected by a beam forming antenna the signal might occupy only one portion of a geographical space but not another. If the beam is utilized to project energy in a given direction assuming that one could ascertain this then one could project energy into geographic regions where the beam does not exist.

The subject system thus depends on three different concepts namely White space Gray space and Black space. Black space is a space that cannot be used at all. This is because there is no room for another signal to coexist. The moment one tries to emit a signal in this Black space one is going to destroy signals that exist there.

Gray space is a signal space which is partially occupied so there is room for more signals to come in.

By way of definition as to what constitutes signal space signal space is basically a multidimensional feature space.

While systems in the past have concentrated on White space the subject application introduces the concept of Gray space which infers that a signal space is not merely spectrum but is multidimensional feature space consisting of space time frequency code and location.

By being able to sense this Gray space signal environment software defined radios determine how it is that signals can either coexist in that space be multiplexed in that space by employing frequency code division or time division multiplexing or use multi user detection techniques so that the Gray space can be maximally utilized.

It is the purpose of the subject invention to try to make efficient use of the signal space so as first of all to have unblended and structureless communications. It is the purpose of the software defined or cognitive radio to sense a particular environment or signal space and make efficient use of the delivery resources so that one can have assured unplanned and structureless communications.

As will be described part of the subject invention relates not only to the efficient use of the signal space but also for the implementation of cognitive jamming. In cognitive jamming the signal space is detected and characterized such that with the character and predicted nature of the signals being detected one can design jamming signals that consume a minimal amount of energy and resources.

Returning now to cognitive communications signal processing sensing and signal classification as well as machine learning was utilized to figure out the existing signals in a given signal space in terms of what their characteristics are and how they use the space so that one can find what space is available and then use that space. In short the system finds out a way to communicate using the same signal space.

How one detects the signal space and predicts the future for the signals that do exist in the space will be described hereinafter. These include spectrum analysis and signal detection utilizing high order statistics. In one embodiment one first attempts to identify the existing signals by collecting wave forms that are being transmitted in the air using algorithms first to detect if there is any signal present and then parsing the samples into structured energy or unstructured energy based on high order statistics. Whenever one finds structured energy one determines that there is an existing signal. Thus for every segment of data the system tries to figure out whether it contains some structured energy or not. If it does contain structured energy it means that the signal has some information making it an information bearing signal. This means that the probability of a signal being present goes up. The analysis provides the places and times where a signal has occurred and where it is likely to occur in the future.

Not only does the subject system analyze the time period that the signal occurs it also looks into the frequency dimension as well. In one embodiment the signal and time information is combined to form a cluster. The cluster enables ascertaining whether signal chunks belong to the same signal and thus is part of the same signal. With clustering which is an autonomous process one can have enough knowledge as to where in time and frequency the signal exists.

In another embodiment the time and frequency for a certain signal may not be sufficient if it is an aperiodic signal. The signal might be a frequency hopped signal. Thus one must collect enough information to not only know its existence but to predict the future existence. In the present invention this is accomplished utilizing signal classification and machine learning that collects and processes what has already happened so as to predict when it will happen again and be able to tailor the transmission so as not to interfere with a particular behavior.

Signal classification goes further into the detail of the signal and tries to figure out what kind of signal it is. For instance one might have a broad band or narrow band signal one might have a frequency hopping or non frequency hopping signal one might have either a single carrier or multi carrier signal or one might have a signal which is either broad pulsed or narrow pulsed. Finally one can ascertain through signal classification how many signal types are present.

The signal classification for instance in the case of a frequency hopped signal indicates where there is going to be a frequency hopped signal. If it is determined to be a frequency hopped signal one has to be able to detect and predict in a different manner than if it was a simple frequency stable periodic signal.

If one has detected a broad band signal that is not frequency hopping it may nonetheless be a periodic because it exists and then doesn t exist during various time intervals. One therefore has to predict its characteristics in a different manner.

Thus every class of signal that one finds has to have a corresponding prediction algorithm which is how one is to broadly classify what signals exist and where they are going to be.

In short the subject system includes a prediction module that tries to predict the future patterns of the signal and this is done through initial classification.

After the initial signal classification in one embodiment one employs machine learning to predict the Gray spaces. Note that feature extraction clustering and signal classification enables machine learning to accurately make the prediction. Machine learning also includes cluster matching and associative learning and involves multiple predictor pattern matches. In one embodiment a number of different pattern matches are evaluated.

In the learning cycle one does not transmit any information. One rather gathers signals detects signals from clusters and parses the information into signal classes.

The system then uses feature sets in determining whether or not there is Gray space. The ascertation of Gray space includes analysis of bandwidths time widths center frequencies of clusters standard deviations repetition frequencies and other statistical features often employing high order statistical calculations as well as singular value decomposition.

Referring now to what is shown as a block diagram of the subject system in which an input signal is coupled to a clutter suppression module in turn coupled to a signal detection module followed by coupling to a feature extraction module which in turn is coupled to a signal classification module .

Note that the feature extraction module outputs a feature vector to signal classification module . Feature extraction module is also coupled to a learning and prediction module which in combination with the signal output from the signal classification module on line predicts for a given signal that has been detected where any Gray space may occur.

The output of the learning and prediction module is coupled to a decision metrics and policies module to control the output of a software defined radio to communicate in either White or Gray space as illustrated at .

In one embodiment the performance measurement module is coupled to the output of module to measure the performance of the system and to update the learning and prediction module .

Note that the signal classification module outputs the signal type or types to communications module of the software defined radio so that when a decision is made as to how the software defined radio is to output information the signal type information is available.

Referring to how the system operates is described in more detail. Note that for the spectrum analysis and signal detection which includes clutter suppression and signal detection modules and is here illustrated at . Waveform shows the original signal whereas waveforms show the detected signal.

In order to ascertain the characteristics of the signal it is possible using time and frequency to at least understand what band the signal is occupying and how it is occupying the band. This time frequency spectrogram is shown at . The spectrum analysis and signal detection indicates in the waveforms where it is that one does not wish to transmit information.

Where to transmit and where not to transmit information is defined by policy sets in which the policies are separated into competitive and non competitive. The non competitive policy set is a policy set which is rather conservative. It makes sure that it is 100 possible to transmit signals in this region of the signal space because they will not interfere. However setting a non competitive policy set minimizes the amount of spectrum that can be utilized.

The competitive policy set is based on the prediction of where the existing signals will exist and makes use of the prediction so that one can transmit in these regions regardless of the fact of an existing signal.

Note that from the time frequency detection of module one can through feature extraction and clustering further isolate the existing signals as illustrated at . Note also that here a Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum DSSS is inputted to Module with the occupied spectrum space illustrated by shading .

With the feature extraction and clustering one can isolate the DSSS signal as illustrated at and use this information for the signal classification which has five basic classifications namely broad band non frequency hopping single carrier broad pulse and one signal type. The selected classification of the signal is coupled to learning and prediction module which then determines that one could utilize a narrow band high power frequency hopping signal to coexist with the DSSS signal and . The DSSS signals correspond to code division multiple access signals whereby it can be seen that the narrow band high power signal will not significantly interfere with these signals.

In terms of the ability to communicate in the White and Gray Space one can see that one can inject signal occupied space which signals do not interfere with the DSSS at .

What this shows is that it is possible in one instance with a narrow band high power signal to transmit in the signal space initially occupied at least partially by a DSSS signal.

What is seen in is the signal detection stage for another class of signals. For instance the first signal here illustrated at is narrow band with a fairly small energy such that the signal is buried in noise and can not be detected easily. In one can see this signal in the frequency domain. Note that in it is very difficult to figure out exactly where this signal is occurring meaning that what is presented looks like noise.

One of the subject algorithms is quite powerful and can basically parse the structured energy from the unstructured energy to figure out where the signal is occurring. Note that the probability of a signal occurring in the spectrogram at the bottom of shows that signals and occur at precise predictable times.

It can be seen that signal once obscured in spectrogram can be seen using artificial signal processing to enhance the appearance of the signals that are coming in namely the frequency hopping signals. In the middle spectrogram of one can see small dots corresponding to a signal detection spike. Thus wherever a dot has occurred corresponding to the frequency hopping signal signal detection predicts where the frequency hopped signal has occurred in time and presents this as a highly visible line in the bottom .

Referring now to what is shown is clustering and feature extraction. What is shown here is that in the spectrogram the signal is shown with the time domain on the horizontal axis and frequency on the vertical axis with the clustered points and showing where exactly the signal has occurred. It will be appreciated that one can have multiple dimensions. Therefore one wishes to have multiple dimensions in which to try and figure out where these signals are occurring and do so in an autonomous fashion.

Thus what is shown in is image processing clustering in the frequency dimension so as to provide a spectrogram of frequency versus time. Note that the image consists of pixels or clusters from which one can see that one has certain pixels that belong to the same signal. Thus one has a spectrographic way of ascertaining that certain pixels are the result of the same signal.

Note in this spectrogram there are two signals that are occurring at the same time. First there is a frequency hopping signal shown at and then there are blocks which correspond to a direct sequence spread spectrum signal.

As can be seen the block can be further isolated using spectrogram clustering such that the block can be classified on the basis of features such as time width of the clusters bandwidth of the clusters center frequency of the clusters standard deviation of the center frequency of the clusters statistical features such as the higher order statistics singular values in a singular value decomposition time of arrival time difference of arrival mean variance standard deviation probability of event occurrence of the various features raw or processed features time frequency detection ratio etc. In this particular instance shown are the maximum bandwidth MaxBW maximum time MaxTw and center frequencies of the clusters fc are shown by the arrows.

Having utilized spectrograms in clustering one can determine certain characteristics of the input signal.

Referring now to this figure shows a general way in which a normal machine learning and classification stage would work. Here a classifier includes feature measurement followed by a module to make classification decisions such that as illustrated three classes of signals are outputted. It is possible as shown at to score the results and provide feedback over line to a train classifier modules that provides weightings to classification decision module .

In designing the classifier as illustrated at one chooses features and models which are used by module to design the classifier.

Note that the chosen features are inputted to the feature measurement module as illustrated by line and that design classifier outputs the design classifications on which a decision is made over line .

What will be apparent from the machine learning and classification stage is that for example on the basis of features such as time width of the clusters bandwidth of the clusters center frequency of the clusters standard deviation of the center frequency of the clusters statistical features such as the higher order statistics singular values in a singular value decomposition time of arrival time difference of arrival mean variance standard deviation probability of event occurrence of the various features raw or processed features time frequency detection ratio etc. machine learning and signal classification may be carried out.

In order to detect identify and classify the signal one needs a very powerful feature measurement stage. The feature measurement stage measures all the features because these are the measurement factors which help one to make a decision as to what signals will exist in the future.

Having decided that the signal has certain features the output of feature measurement module is coupled to classification module to make the classification decision. The results are scored so that one can understand how well the classification algorithms are behaving. Given this scoring the system goes back to train the classifiers making the system an adaptive system.

The adaptive nature of the classifier may be understood as follows For instance if one needs one more feature to finally ascertain the character of the incoming signal the training classifier module provides the additional features to be able to make a more robust classification. Thus the classifier is adaptive and is able to be trained based on scoring results and the training provided by classifier training module .

Referring to what is shown is the result at the end of the classification stage wherein a typical classification stage takes into account different features that are measured. In one embodiment one chooses the carrier frequency the center frequency of a cluster the time width and the bandwidth. Note that these features are enough to separate three different protocols namely Bluetooth 802.11b and 802.11g. As can be seen in the feature space of different signals occupy different regions. Here it can be seen that the Bluetooth occupies region whereas 802.11g occupies region and 802.11b occupies region . Thus one can clearly see that one can separate the signals into three classes and accurately classify these signals.

Once having classified the signals one can understand the existing signal in a better way and create a new signal in the feature space where the signals do not exist. Referring now to what can be seen is a spectrogram of time versus frequency for a Bluetooth signal which as can be seen from the pixels is a narrow band frequency hopping signal. This is a typical spectrogram which when clustering is performed and signal classification is performed one ascertains what the incoming signal is and how it looks. More importantly it also provides the features for predicting where the signal will exist in the future.

Referring to once one has extracted a number of features of the signal one can give it to a number of predictive pattern matchers. The features are shown at which are coupled to cluster matchers and that are respectively coupled many predictive pattern matchers and with the outputs of all the predicative pattern matchers coupled to a module which evaluates predictions.

If upon evaluation of the outputs from the predictive pattern matchers one needs to develop a new pattern this is done at module this new pattern is installed in the predictive pattern matchers thus making the cluster matching and pattern matching adaptable.

Referring to and these figures show one of the pattern matchers and how they operate. They also show how machine learning takes place over time.

Note that and are three dimensional figures one axis of which showing the time since the last pulse. This in essence graphs how much time has elapsed since the last pulse.

The other axis is graphing the time to the next pulse. So if one pulse just occurred when is the next pulse going to occur in time 

The vertical axis simply shows how many instances of the feature have occurred. Thus in one has a three dimensional space where there are a number of instances versus certain time characteristics that are graphed.

It is noted that and are the same figures over different periods of time and they represent a particular implementation of a predictive pattern matcher.

In one can see a very short time duration for the time to next pulse and time since last pulse. After for instance a hundred milliseconds of learning one can clearly start seeing that there are certain spikes that are becoming more and more pronounced. This is because of the pattern which is present inside the signal repetition pattern.

What the system learns is that there is a certain repetition and that there will be more instances in that repetition. Thus if a pulse occurs at one point there is a high probability that it will occur for instance at milliseconds later such that there is a strong correlation set up.

What is shown by the short time interval of is that there are a certain number of peaks illustrated in the circle whereas after a certain amount of time has elapsed as shown in there is only one peak as shown in circle making the prediction rather robust.

What is shown is that what is detected is a broad band direct sequence spread spectrum signal here shown at and . This shows that in this particular instance one can transmit a narrow band frequency hopping signal to share the spectrum with the DSSS signal.

Thus as can be seen at signals in this region of the spectrogram do not interfere with the direct sequence spread spectrum signals at . Even if a narrow band high powered signal interferes occasionally with the broadband DSSS as shown in it creates a limited negative impact to the existing DSSS signal. This spectrogram shows how not just the White Space as shown in but also the Gray space as shown in is utilized.

What is shown in is the detection of an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing system OFDM. The original spectrogram shows the characteristics of this type of signal whereas the spectrogram in shows that there are regions that are unoccupied by the OFDM signal where a narrow band high power signal here illustrated at can be inserted. Note that the OFDM signal is a very popular waveform used in 802.11 WiFi systems or the new WiMax systems. This modulation format is extremely efficient but has certain properties which make it easily susceptible to interference. What happens is that for OFDM signals one divides the entire chunk of bandwidth that one is using into small sub channels or sub carriers. While these sub channels or sub carriers are extremely efficient there is a downside in that any interference in the sub channels can destroy the sub channel because they are already narrow bands.

In the subject system one has the capability to distinguish whether the incoming signal is a single carrier or a multi carrier signal. If it is a multi carrier signal it is most likely an OFDM signal. As will be appreciated orthogonal frequency division multiplexing is just another name for a multi carrier signal. Further any OFDM signal being a multi carrier signal precludes the possibility of transmitting right on top of it. However as can be seen there is gray space even in an OFDM situation.

How one can transmit over an OFDM signal is now discussed. Due to the broad signal classification one can determine whether the incoming signal is a broad band signal whether it is a non frequency hopping signal whether it is a multi carrier signal or whether it is a single carrier signal. The system can distinguish between single carrier and multi carrier signals. If the system finds that the signal is a multi carrier single doing clustering ascertains exactly where these signals are present. One can also do machine learning to see how the signal is being transmitted and exactly where it is occurring. While there is no room in the time domain in the above example one can see that there is room in the frequency domain. Thus one could use frequency hopping not to interfere with OFDM signals.

While shows a non competitive placing of signals in what is shown is a competitive transmission. Note that the original signal is a frequency hopper for instance a Bluetooth type signal. Bluetooth signals are narrow band frequency hoppers. It hops over perhaps 70 Megahertz. Note that the top diagram shows a spectrogram of the narrow band frequency hopped signals. Note that in spectrogram blocks show the original signal and blocks show how one could implement the frequency hopping on a non interfering basis.

These regions as can be seen in spectrogram as relatively broad bands and such that if the transmitted signal occupies only the top and bottom bands which involve spectrum features not occupied by the Bluetooth signal then there is no interference. Also if one transmits another frequency hopper on top of it using machine learning and prediction information then there is no interference.

Sometimes there is overlap between the new transmitted signal and the original signal . What this shows is that using the suggested technique greater than 90 utilization of the spectrum can be achieved with very little or no interference to the original signal. Going to the top figure it can be seen that blocks are the places where one could inject non interfering signals.

Referring now to what is shown is a block diagram of the actual logical flow of how a cognitive communication system operates. In this case. the goal of the system is to provide non interfering transmissions which are not going to jam any existing signals or interfere in any possible way.

This figure gives a graphical illustration of one embodiment of subject cognitive communications system and in particular shows how it will detect signals extract features perform clustering un supervised learning classify the signal in types learn and predict the time and frequency domain behaviors and based on some decision metrics or policies transmit a non interfering signal in either White Space or Gray Space.

In this figure what is presented is a flow chart for non interfering communications. Starting at box one activates the sensing operation at box . This is where signal detection occurs since the first task that the system performs is to identify the signal space in which one wants to operate and to perform spectrum sensing namely signal detection. Note that there are many different techniques for signal detection based on a number of factors. In one embodiment higher order statistical signal processing is used for detection of the signals but one can do initial energy detection as a first cut. Thus as seen in box one can use higher order statistical base detection in time and frequency domains energy detection or covariance and other statistical signal processing based detection.

As can be seen at box a decision is made as to whether a signal is detected. If no signal is detected in any signal space then one has White Space as indicated at and one can use any previously agreed upon method to communicate in this White Space as indicated at .

On the other hand if a signal is detected then one has to ascertain Gray Space as illustrated at . If Gray Space is detected one has some room left to transmit more information. If one is able to prove that there is sufficient space that is available then the next thing to be accomplished is to identify the signal type as illustrated at . Signal identification is accomplished by techniques illustrated at to include feature extraction and signal classification. Note that just identifying signal type is not enough. For example identifying that the incoming signal is a CDMA direct sequence spectrum signal or OFDM signal is not enough. One needs to understand the protocol in terms of how the signal is occurring and what patterns exist in the signal. This is carried out by using machine learning and prediction as illustrated at involving incremental learning as illustrated at .

The system understands whether the incoming signals and protocols are of a known type. For instance there are certain circumstances where one can clearly ascertain for example that the incoming signal is an 802.11 signal. It follows certain protocols involving a frame a downlink an uplink and a certain pattern. Based on these protocols one always knows what the signal will look like in the future. The problem then becomes a simple problem because one has already identified that the incoming signal follows a known protocol.

The fact that a known protocol is indicated at and having ascertained this a decision block is invoked to answer the question Can the existing system accommodate a new user and is it secure If the answer is yes then as illustrated at the previously agreed upon method to communicate using a certain type of protocol is invoked.

However if the signal is not of a known protocol then one has to learn what the protocol is. This is based on the utilization of a Scenario and Action Table and discussed in more detail in connection with . However once the signal is identified and classified then one can learn where it is going to exist and to be able to transmit in the Gray Space.

Referring to a Scenario and Action Table is described. In this table the system defines the policy sets namely what is the policy set going to be in order to obtain non interfering communications. For example if one identifies that the detected wave form is classified as a direct sequence spread spectrum wave form the table specifies what the system will do. If the Scenario and Action Table determines that the signal is an OFDM signal again the table specifies what is to be done. Note for a DSSS broadband signal one is able to transmit a higher power signal or another DSSS signal with an orthogonal spreading code. One can also create a frequency hopped signal using an OFDM signal by selectively switching its sub carriers on or off as time progresses.

If the signal is detected as an OFDM broadband signal one finds unused sub carriers and bands and then transmits in them. Another OFDM signal may be used to fill up the unused sub channels or the White Spaces.

If on the other hand the detected signals are frequency hopping spread spectrum signals one performs a time and frequency prediction of the next hop and then makes sure that the transmitted signals occupy one or more time frequency sub bands that are predicted to be vacant. The system in one embodiment finds the bands that are never used and then occupies them.

With respect to a time division multiplex signal arriving at the system one identifies and predicts the temporal holes and transmits in these holes.

Finally if a space division multiplex signal is detected one can use adaptive beam forming to make sure that there are no interfering signals at a particular location.

Referring to a Scenario and Action Table is provided for cognitive jamming. The subject system replaces a so called dumb jammer with a smarter jammer. A dumb jammer will have an infinite amount of energy to expend and it will not try to understand exactly what the signals look like that one is trying to jam or what their protocols are. It will just try to jam the signal with all the power and might that it has. This is obviously a brute force approach.

However one can make very efficient use of one s resources. For instance if one were able to identify what kind of signal is being used in a given spectrum and the protocols that is using then one can do a smart and targeted jamming operation which in essence saves energy and power. This creates maximum damage at minimum cost.

It is noted that in some jamming systems deployed on aircraft one does not have unlimited power which is a problem for brute force.

In the Scenario and Action Table for cognitive jamming discusses for instance what is to be deployed when one detects for instance a DSSS broadband signal. In this case one transmits using a narrowband high power signal on the DC component one transmits a broadband signal such as OFDM to occupy the DSSS bandwidth or one transmits another DSSS signal with the same spreading code. To jam an OFDM broadband signal one finds the sub carriers and sub bands and transmits in them.

If one is to try to jam a frequency hopping spread spectrum signal one performs a time and frequency prediction of the next hop and then occupies one or more sub bands that are predicted to be unoccupied.

For jamming time division multiplex signals one identifies and predicts the next time of arrival and transmits any complementary but dissimilar waveform with respect to the original one.

Finally for a space division multiplex signal one performs an adaptive beam steering procedure to target the beam at the receiver and transmit any complementary but dissimilar waveform with respect to the original one to disrupt the communications.

Finally referring to what is shown is a cognitive jamming flow chart. As illustrated at in order to start the cognitive jamming sequence one proceeds with spectrum sensing at to find out whether or not a signal is detected. If not as illustrated by decision block one ascertains that there is White Space available at which results at with no jamming action being necessary.

As illustrated at techniques for determining the presence of signals include using higher order statistics based detection in time and frequency domains as well as energy detection and covariance in other statistical signal processing based approaches.

Again if there is a Gray Space as illustrated at then one identifies a signal type as illustrated at using feature extraction and signal classification techniques and then as illustrated at one understands the protocols associated with the incoming signal to begin using machine learning and prediction using incremental learning as illustrated at .

As illustrated at decision block if there are any signal protocols matched to a known type one exploits the known vulnerabilities as illustrated at and tailors the transmitted signal to jam the detected signal with its known vulnerabilities.

If the signal type is not known as illustrated at block one can transmit any complementary but dissimilar waveform with respect to the original one to jam it in time frequency code space or location. In order to transmit jamming radiation as can be seen from Scenario and Action Table selected jamming techniques may be utilized.

By way of further explanation experiments have been carried out on simulated data as well as the over the air collected test waveforms of the various devices operating in the Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM bands. These devices following a wide variety of standards such as the Bluetooth IEEE 802.11b and IEEE 8022.11 g were made to transmit and the waveforms were collected and down converted to base band using an Agilent 89640 signal analyzer as is disclosed in 1.1 http www.ieee802.org 15 pub TG1.html IEEE Std. 802.15.1 2002 and 802.11200311 2.4 . IEEE Std. 802.11 2003 the contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference. The signal analyzer has a bandwidth of approximately 36 MHz which sufficiently covers the spectral foot print of most signals. The analyzer has 24 digital demodulators with settable center frequency. The center frequency for the digital down conversion was kept in the center of the ISM band and no prior knowledge of the type of signals present in the spectrum was assumed. The down converted pass band waveform samples were subjected to go through the various processes of the cognitive radio functional blocks shown in and . In the subsections each of these blocks and functionalities is briefly described.

The first step for any cognitive radio is to understand the surrounding environment and to detect the ambient signals that are present. Signal detection algorithm must be designed such that it can detect a wide variety of signal types. The two processes that must be carried out to separate the meaningful signal are clutter suppression and signal detection. Clutter suppression may be carried out using sub space enhancement techniques. Signal detection in Gaussian noise may be carried out using the Higher Order Statistics HOS as is disclosed in J. M. Mendel Tutorial on Higher Order Statistics Spectra in Signal Processing and Systems Theory Theoretical Results and Some Applications Proc. of IEEE 79 3 278 305 March 1991 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The fact that the cumulants of the order higher than two for a Gaussian process are zero may be used to detect the signals in the Gaussian noise. The received waveform samples may be grouped into segments and higher order cumulants for each of these segments may be estimated. The detection thresholds are defined after a period of learning the distributions of the moments and cumulants and decision is made whether a particular segment of the received samples contains any meaningful information or not. shows how signal detection may be carried out in Gaussian noise using HOS. The top figure shows the time domain waveform of the Bluetooth signal heavily buried in noise. The figure in the middle shows the spectrogram of the same signal and the figure at the bottom shows the probability that some useful signal is detected for different time segments of the received waveform using HOS. It can be seen that even though the Signal of Interest SOI is heavily buried in noise this signal detection scheme works well with a reasonably good Probability of Detection P .

Once a useful signal is detected feature extraction plays an important role of information assimilation such that the salient characteristics of the signals may be identified and the detected signal or signals may be assigned to appropriate classes. shows how in a cognitive communications system feature extraction feeds the signal classification stage and vice versa. While selecting the features it is important to keep in mind the questions that one would like the classifier to answer. Some of the questions include

All these questions may be answered using various signal processing methods which involve clustering un supervised learning image processing mapping singular value decomposition and other sub space based tracking techniques on the various forms of the data sets. shows an example of spectrogram clustering in order to classify the signals that are present in the given spectrum. The example shows both Bluetooth as well as the IEEE 802.11b signals operating in the same spectrum. The detected signals in a frame of 10 mS window are clustered into groups. Some of the features are extracted from these clusters in order to separate the signal types operating in the spectrum.

Many different features may be extracted from the signal however few are useful. Hence it is important to perform sufficient statistics analysis or to optimize the feature set as is disclosed in E. C. Real Feature Extraction and Sufficient Statistics in Detection and Classification vol. 6 pp. 3049 3052 May 1996 and R. O. Duda P. E. Hart and D. G. Stork Wiley s Interscience New York 2001 the contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference. Feature optimization will choose the best features from the feature set to separate the signal of interest effectively whereas sufficient statistics analysis on the feature vector and its distributions will help determine if the existing feature set is sufficient for any new signal or protocol that is detected.

The subject cognitive system emphasizes connectionist classifiers as these methods require the fewest assumptions and are most applicable to problem in which a priori information is lacking. shows an example of signal classification based on the extracted features from . The compared features are spectral bandwidth BW temporal width of the clusters TW and center frequency for each of the clusters FC for the received over the air collected data for the signals belonging to the Bluetooth as is disclosed in 1.1 . http www.ieee802.org 15 pub TG1.html IEEE Std. 802.15.1 2002 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and also IEEE 802.11b and IEEE 802.11g Standards. For the processed signals these three features effectively characterize signals as belonging to one of the three classes. The clusters are generated using the Single Linkage Clustering Algorithm. A nearest neighbor classifier is then used to match each input signal feature triplet BW TW FC to the existing cluster centroids.

It is noted that open set classification helps to detect a new signal. Open set classification is the classification of data from signal classes that were not part of the original training set the closed set . Classifiers that are not designed to account for this eventuality will often attempt to assign the received signal to one of the training set classes potentially resulting in a misclassification. Real and Baumann have proposed a method for overcoming this problem based on the tolerance interval analysis as is disclosed in E. C. Real and A. H. Baumann Open set classification using tolerance intervals Volume 2 Page s 1217 1221 Oct. 29 Nov. 2 2000 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Open set classification plays an important role in a cognitive communications system to detect and classify a new signal. Another way of thinking about the open set classification is as follows. A given set of training data will cover some volume of the class actual unknown feature space. If one would like the training data to cover c of the actual class feature space with probability P we can compute the number of independent training samples N required. From the training data one computes closed bounds specifying the set membership volume of a given class as opposed to partitioning the entire feature space into a finite number of regions. When a new feature vector falls outside all of the established regions it is declared as a new class. Open set classification is an important functionality of a cognitive communications system.

Machine Learning can be concisely defined as a process when a machine e.g. a computer program changes its structure program or data in response to inputs so that its future performance improves as is disclosed in P. Nilsson http ai.stanford.edu people nilsson mlbook.html 1996 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. While many software programs are designed to perform the same way each time they are run it is often useful to develop programs algorithms and systems that can learn from experience. The subject cognitive communications system is based on the concept that the deployed system will learn from its RF environment by characterizing new types of signals and transmission protocols using an incremental learning approach that continues to adapt while the system is operational and new data is collected.

A system that can learn will mimic aspects of pattern matching and prediction as performed in human cognition. The pattern matching function of our brain is constantly producing short term predictions based on stored patterns and incoming sensory data most of the time these predictions are correct. Failed predictions however lead to learning which is the development of new patterns. This cognitive pattern matching and prediction model can be profitably applied to problems in which the range of potential patterns and features of interest are limited. A cognitive communications system is a good example of such a problem since the features of interest are limited to time and spectral features of signals with no need for external data or decoding of the information contained in the signals themselves. The subject system further limits the scope of the problem by developing a pattern matching and prediction algorithm implemented on conventional Von Neumann architecture computers.

As shown in machine learning enables a self designing self adapting classifier in contrast to standard classifier design which is heavily reliant on human designer inputs since the types of objects to be classified are often problem specific and can change over time. In particular machine learning enables our system to 

The subject approach develops predictions of future values of specified features using multiple adaptive learning predictor functions. It matches the input feature values to stored measurements of previously observed patterns and develops a prediction from each pattern based on current feature values and accumulated prior history. The best prediction at each time frame is selected based on the calculated confidence of each predictor for its current input values.

The first step is to develop clusters of patterns. The clustering is based on the similarity of key features for these patterns and can be performed using a clustering algorithm such as Single Linkage Algorithm. Each cluster then represents a type of pattern. For each cluster predictions of future feature values can be developed using one or more of the features used to characterize the cluster. The input and output values for each predictor are based on the observed statistics to date for that cluster. The statistics of outputs of parameter value Z in terms of input parameter values X Y etc for each cluster are stored rather than the series of raw inputs.

In operation each input data set of features is compared to the existing clusters to determine what type of pattern is being matched. The comparison can be made using classification algorithms such as Nearest Neighbor Algorithm. In order to select the best prediction at each point in time the quality or confidence value of each predictor is calculated. The quality measurement used is the measure of the ambiguity of each specific output prediction with the least ambiguous prediction being the best. This can be measured for instance by calculating the fullwidth at half maximum for each predictor based on the input values and selecting the narrowest one. The ambiguity or quality measurement can be used to place error bars around the predicted time of next transmission. If none of the predictors provide a high enough confidence value for satisfactory end system use additional predictors can be developed for future use by adding more input features either internal to the signal or external such as time of day or developing predictors for higher level multi layer patterns.

In order for a number of cognitive communications devices to operate in the network certain policy sets must be devised. These policy sets make the co existence of multitudes of such devices possible. There may be policies for signal transmission for the initialization protocols for spectrum usage per node etc. The devised policy sets must also keep in mind that not all the devices operating in the network will have cognitive capabilities.

The prior art has started looking into the game theoretic approaches to choosing the right set of policies as is disclosed in S. Haykin Cognitive Radio Brain Empowered Wireless Communications . vol. 23 no. 2 pp. 201 220 February 2005 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Amongst the many techniques no regret algorithms hold promise. No regret algorithms are probabilistic learning algorithms which specify that players explore the space of actions by playing all actions with some non zero probability and exploit successful actions by increasing the probability of employing those actions that generate high profits. Learning converges to the correlated Nash equilibrium. No regret algorithms try to minimize regret or leave no regret externally or internally as follows 

The LaGrangian hedging algorithm chooses an optimal policy from a very large set of policies by LaGrangian multipliers. It involves two steps I. Prediction and II. Scaling. Prediction tries to estimate the cost of choosing a wrong policy and scaling weighs the risk and the cost. LaGrangian multipliers are used to not let the regret vector to grow. A hedging parameter must be chosen which tries to evade the risk of defeat by keeping the option of retreat open.

In a No Regret algorithm the set of policies to choose from is smaller. A weighting function maximizes the utility function resulting in a guaranteed convergence to some equilibrium. This algorithm has a potential for using mixed strategies.

The goal of this program has been to develop a cognitive capability to detect and classify the signal types present in a given spectrum of interest without going into the signal internals to learn the time and frequency domain patterns of the received signals predict their future behavior and based on certain policy sets to transmit a signal in the White as well as the Gray space such that the new signal or signals do not interfere with the existing ones. As described above the subject system uses two different policy sets. One for a non competitive cognitive device that will use only as much space for signal transmission as it requires and the other for a competitive cognitive device that will use the prediction information to occupy all the possible space that it thinks is available.

In summary the present invention involves a cognitive communications system that combine the areas of communications signal processing pattern classification and machine learning to detect the signals in the given spectrum of interests extracts their features classifies the signals in types learns the salient characteristics and patterns of the signal and predicts their future behaviors. Sophisticated signal processing enables extraction of the salient features of the signal without going into their internals. Incremental learning allows knowledge enhancement and improved prediction capability with time. The cognitive communications system uses the classification and prediction information to transmit a signal in White as well as the Gray space such that it does not interfere with the existing users resulting in increased and efficient usage of the spectrum. Two policy frame works are devised for non competitive and competitive cognitive devices. A non competitive device plays it safe and uses only as much space that it needed. On the other hand a competitive or a greedy device uses all the space that it thought it could have based on the prediction information resulting in errors and interference with the existing users in the spectrum.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications or additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the recitation of the appended claims.

