---

title: Method and apparatus for providing a video call service
abstract: A method and an apparatus perform a video call service. A transmission communication device provides information on a rotation angle of a video call image transmitted during a video call to a reception communication device corresponding to a counterpart of the video call. Then, the reception communication device renders the received video call image by using the information on the rotation angle of the received video call image, and displays a rendered video call image. Accordingly, an image of a counterpart of the video call can be normally provided during the video call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071724&OS=09071724&RS=09071724
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09071724
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20130225
---
This application claims pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a priority to and the benefit of the earlier filing date of Korean Patent Application Serial No. 10 2012 0019372 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Feb. 24 2012 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a video call service and more particularly to a method and an apparatus for providing an optimal video call screen during a video call.

Due to the development of various electronic and communication technologies in the prior art not only voice call services but also video call services have become widespread. Also communication devices which support video call services are being diversified. For example video call services are provided by Personal Computers PCs laptop computers tablet PCs or the like as well as by mobile phones or smart phones.

As the communication devices which support the video call service are diversified as described above a video call may be performed between communication devices which belong to an identical type but are of different models or between communication devices which belong to different types.

However the communication devices may have different methods for processing video captured images according to the types of the communication devices or in the case of the communication devices which belong to an identical type but are of different models. Examples of the different methods in the prior art are shown in and . Each of and is a view showing an example of an actual storage state of image data. In the example shown in when a mobile phone of a portrait type video captures a subject while the mobile phone is kept in a basic state an image obtained by video capturing the subject is normally displayed on a screen of the mobile phone but actual image data is stored in a storage device of the mobile phone in a state of being rotated by 90 degrees in terms of the normal or basic orientation of the mobile phone as a reference. Also in another example shown in when a tablet PC of a landscape type video captures a subject while the tablet PC is kept in a basic state actual image data obtained by video capturing the subject is stored in a storage device of the tablet PC without being rotated in terms of the tablet PC as a reference. In particular according to unique features of the relevant communication device a storage state of image data can be different for each communication device.

The image data and the image data which have been stored as described above are transmitted to a counterpart communication device during a video call without any change in states in which the image data and the image data have been stored. In other words in the example shown in the image data rotated by 90 degrees is transmitted to a counterpart of the video call. Accordingly a problem may occur when the communication device which has received the image data displays the image data .

When the mobile phone performs video communication with the tablet PC the tablet PC which receives the image data displays an image rotated by 90 degrees on a screen thereof. Moreover an image that the tablet PC displays is also affected when a user does not keep the direction of the mobile phone in a basic state as shown in but rotates the mobile phone in a clockwise direction by 90 degrees or in a counter clockwise direction by 90 degrees while the user performs the video call.

Therefore the user is inconvenienced in that the user must manually change the direction of the displayed image.

Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and an apparatus for providing an optimal video call screen during a video call.

Also another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and an apparatus capable of providing a normal video call image regardless of the type of communication device which performs a video call.

Further still another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and an apparatus capable of providing a normal video call image even when a user rotates the communication device which performs the video call.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a method for providing a video call service by a communication device is provided. The method includes connecting a video call to at least one particular communication device receiving rotation angle information of a video call image transmitted by the particular communication device from the particular communication device detecting a rotation angle of the communication device with a basic state of the communication device as a reference calculating a rendering angle of the video call image by using the rotation angle information and the rotation angle of the communication device and rotating the video call image by the rendering angle and displaying a rotated video call image.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention an apparatus for providing a video call service in a communication device which provides the video call service is provided. The apparatus includes a controller for connecting a video call to at least one particular communication device receiving rotation angle information of a video call image transmitted by the particular communication device from the particular communication device detecting a rotation angle of the communication device with a basic state of the communication device as a reference calculating a rendering angle of the video call image by using the rotation angle information and the rotation angle of the communication device and setting the rendering angle for an image processor and the image processor for rotating the video call image by the rendering angle and displaying a rotated video call image.

Hereinafter exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. It should be noted that in the accompanying drawings the same elements will be designated by the same reference numerals as far as possible although they are shown in different drawings. Also in describing the present invention a detailed description of publicly known functions or configurations related to the present invention will be omitted when it is determined that the detailed description thereof may unnecessarily obscure the subject matter of the present invention. The present invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. In addition terms described herein which are defined with reference to the functions of the present invention may be implemented differently depending on a user or operator s intention and practice. Therefore the terms should be understood on the basis of the disclosure throughout the specification. The principles and features of this invention may be employed in varied and numerous embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention.

Furthermore although the drawings represent exemplary embodiments of the invention the drawings are not necessarily to scale and certain features may be exaggerated or omitted in order to more clearly illustrate and explain the present invention.

Among the terms set forth herein a terminal refers to any kind of device capable of processing data which is transmitted or received to or from any external entity. The terminal may display icons or menus on a screen to which stored data and various executable functions are assigned or mapped. The terminal may include a computer a notebook a tablet PC a mobile device and the like.

Among the terms set forth herein a screen refers to a display or other output devices which visually display information to the user and which optionally are capable of receiving and electronically processing tactile inputs from a user using a stylo a finger of the user or other techniques for conveying a user selection from the user to the output devices.

Among the terms set forth herein a normal image or an image in a normal state refers to the typical non rotated image of a person or other subjects such as animals paintings buildings statues etc. with the head of a person or a top of the subject near the top of the image and the lower body of the person or a lower portion of the subject near the bottom of the image

As video call services are generalized communication devices which support video call services are also being diversified. For example video call services are provided by Personal Computers PCs laptop computers tablet PCs or the like as well as by mobile phones or smart phones.

The communication devices can be divided into a portrait type device such as the mobile phone shown in which is relatively long in the vertical direction and a landscape type device such as the tablet PC shown in which is relatively long in the horizontal direction according to their overall external shapes and or the shape or orientation of a display screen of the communication device.

In the case of a communication device of a portrait type generally a predetermined basic state is defined as a state in which the length of a vertical side of a display is greater than the length of a horizontal side of the display a speaker is disposed at an upper part of the communication device and a front surface on which a screen of the display is disposed is viewed straight in the face of the user. Also in this case a rotation angle of the communication device is equal to 0 degrees. The basic state is determined by a software SW platform or is determined in a development stage by a manufacturer of the communication device.

In the case of a communication device of a landscape type generally a basic state is defined as a state in which the length of a vertical side of a display is less than that of the length of a horizontal side of the display. Also at this time a rotation angle of the communication device is equal to 0 degrees. In the present invention the device rotation angle signifies an angle by which the communication device is rotated with the basic state as a reference. An example of a rotation angle of the communication device of the portrait type in the prior art is shown in which shows the portrait type communication device displayed at a rotation angle of 90 degrees 180 degrees and 270 degrees in a manner known in the prior art.

According to the types of the communication devices or in the case of the communication devices which belong to an identical type but are of different models as can be seen in the examples shown in and a storage direction of image data which is set with a basic state of a communication device as a reference may be different for each communication device.

However the image data and the image data which have been stored as described above are transmitted to a counterpart communication device during a video call without any change in storage directions of the image data and the image data . In other words when the mobile phone performs video communication with the tablet PC the image data rotated by 90 degrees is transmitted to the tablet PC corresponding to a counterpart of the video call. Accordingly a problem may occur in that the tablet PC displays the image rotated by 90 degrees on a screen thereof.

Therefore in the present invention rotation angle information of an image a video call image transmitted during a video call is provided to a reception communication device corresponding to a counterpart of the video call. Then the reception communication device renders the received video call image by using the transmitted rotation angle information of the received video call image and displays a rendered video call image. Accordingly an image of a counterpart of the video call can be normally provided during the video call.

In the present invention the rotation angle information of the video call image is provided through an image storage direction and a device rotation angle of the communication device. The image storage direction is determined according to a storage direction of an image when the communication device stores the image after capturing a subject in a basic state of the communication device. For example as in the case of the mobile phone shown in when a captured image is rotated by 90 degrees with a basic state of the mobile phone as a reference and the rotated image is stored an image storage direction becomes 90 degrees. As in the case of the tablet PC shown in when a captured image is stored without being rotated with a basic state of the tablet PC as a reference an image storage direction becomes 0 degrees. The image storage direction corresponds to a characteristic value of the communication device.

By using the image storage direction and the device rotation angle which have been received from the counterpart device of the video call and by using a current device rotation angle of the communication device itself the communication device determines a rotation degree of the received video call image and applies the determined rotation degree to the received video call image. Also in view of the image storage direction and the device rotation angle which have been received from the counterpart device of the video call and in view of the current device rotation angle and a display direction of the communication device itself the communication device determines whether the received video call image is resized and applies a result of the determination to the received video call image.

Also ratios of display screens included in the communication devices such as the mobile phone and the tablet PC may differ from each other. For example in the case of the mobile phone a ratio of a display screen may be equal to 16 9 which is the case in which the mobile phone is rotated by 90 degrees or 90 degrees as a reference and a ratio of a display screen of the tablet PC may be equal to 4 3. In this case in order to optimize a video call image when at least two communication devices are connected in a video call it is desirable that each of the communication devices on each end of the video call transmits the video call image in such a manner as to satisfy a ratio of a display screen supported by each other.

Accordingly in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the communication devices on each end of the video call exchange ratios of their respective display screens in the initial process of connecting a video call between the communication devices and each of the communication devices determines a horizontal to vertical ratio of a video call image in a manner similar to determining a ratio of a display screen which is supported by a counterpart communication device of the video call each of the communication devices encodes the video call image according to the determined horizontal to vertical ratio and each of the communication devices transmits an encoded video call image.

For example the mobile phone encodes a video call image which is to be transmitted to the tablet PC with a ratio of 4 3 and the tablet PC encodes a video call image which is to be transmitted to the mobile phone with a ratio of 16 9.

An example of the communication device to which the present invention is applied is shown in . is a block diagram showing the configuration of the example communication device according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Referring to the communication device may be connected to an external device by using a mobile communication module a sub communication module and a connector . The external devices may include another device a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet PC and a server.

Referring to the communication device may include a touch screen and a touch screen controller . Also the communication device may include a controller the mobile communication module the sub communication module an image processor a camera module a Global Positioning System GPS module an input output module a sensor module a storage unit and a power supply unit . The sub communication module may include at least one of a wireless LAN module and a short range communication module . The camera module may include at least one of a first camera and a second camera . The input output module may include at least one of buttons a microphone a speaker a vibration motor the connector and a keypad .

The controller is a processor for controlling the operation of the communication device by using for example a Read Only Memory ROM storing a control program for controlling the communication device and a Random Access Memory RAM which stores a signal or data received from outside of the communication device or which is used as a memory area for a task performed by the communication device . The controller may include a single core a dual core a triple core or a quad core processing configuration known in the art.

The controller may control at least the mobile communication module the sub communication module the image processor the camera module the GPS module the input output module the sensor module the storage unit the power supply unit the touch screen and the touch screen controller .

According to the control of the controller the mobile communication module causes the communication device to be connected to an external device through a mobile communication channel by using at least one antenna or multiple antennas. The mobile communication module transmits and receives a wireless signal for a voice call a video call a Short Message Service SMS or a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS to from a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet PC or another device which has a telephone number or other identifier such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL which is input to the communication device .

The sub communication module may include at least one of the wireless LAN module and the short range communication module . For example the sub communication module may include only the wireless LAN module or may include only the short range communication module or may include both the wireless LAN module and the short range communication module .

In response to the control of the controller the wireless LAN module may be connected to the Internet at a place where a wireless Access Point AP is installed. The wireless LAN module may support a wireless Local Area Network LAN standard such as IEEE802.11x of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE . According to the control of the controller the short range communication module enables the communication device to perform wireless short range communication with an image forming device. Short range communication methods may include BLUETOOTH a short range wireless communications technology at the 2.4 GHz band commercially available from the BLUETOOTH SPECIAL INTEREST GROUP INC. Infrared Data Association IrDA protocols etc.

Depending on performance requirements for the communication device the communication device may include at least one of the mobile communication module the wireless LAN module and the short range communication module . For example according to the performance requirements the communication device may include a combination of the mobile communication module the wireless LAN module and the short range communication module .

According to the control of the controller the image processor controls operations of the cameras and . Also the image processor performs image quality processing on image data acquired by an image sensor changes a format of the processed image data and outputs image data obtained after the image quality processing and the format change to the controller . The controller controls the storage unit so as to store the input image data. Further the image processor processes a relevant video call image during a video call according to a rendering angle and whether resizing is applied to an image which are set by the controller and outputs the processed video call image to the controller . Then the controller performs a control operation so as to display the input video call image on the display screen. Otherwise according to another exemplary embodiment of the present invention the video call image processed by the image processor does not go through the controller but may be directly displayed on the display screen by the image processor .

The camera module may include at least one of the first camera and the second camera with each camera for capturing a still image or a moving image according to the control of the controller . Also the first camera or the second camera may include an auxiliary light source such as a flash which provides the amount of light required to capture an image. The first camera may be mounted on a front surface of the communication device and the second camera may be mounted on a rear surface of the communication device . Otherwise the first camera and the second camera may be disposed in such a manner as to be adjacent to each other for example a distance between the first camera and the second camera may be greater than 1 cm. and may be less than 8 cm. and may capture a three dimensional still image or a three dimensional moving image.

The GPS module receives a radio wave from one or more of multiple GPS satellites in the Earth s orbit and may calculate a location of the communication device by using a Time of Arrival TOA from each of the GPS satellites to the communication device .

The input output module may include at least one of the multiple buttons the microphone the speaker the vibration motor the connector and the keypad .

The buttons may be formed on a front surface a lateral surface and or a rear surface of a housing of the communication device and may include at least one of a power off button a volume button a menu button a home button a back button and a search button.

According to the control of the controller the microphone receives a voice or sound as input and generates a corresponding electrical signal.

In response to the control of the controller the speaker may output sounds matched to various signals for example a wireless signal a broadcast signal a digital audio file a digital moving image file and photographing data of the mobile communication module the sub communication module and the camera module to the outside of the communication device . The speaker may output a sound for example a button operation sound or a ringback tone matched to a telephone call matched to a function that the communication device performs. The speaker may include one speaker or multiple speakers disposed at an appropriate position or appropriate positions within or on a housing of the communication device .

Depending on the control of the controller the vibration motor may convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. For example when the communication device in a vibration mode receives a voice call from another device the vibration motor of the communication device operates. The vibration motor may include one vibration motor or multiple vibration motors mounted within or on the housing of the communication device . The vibration motor may operate in response to a touch action of a user who touches the touch screen and in response to a continuous movement of a touch on the touch screen .

The connector may be used as an interface for connecting the communication device to an external device or a power source separate from or included in the power supply unit . According to the control of the controller through a wired cable connected to the connector data stored in the storage unit of the communication device may be transmitted to an external device or data may be received from the external device. Through the wired cable connected to the connector power may be supplied from the power source or a battery such as a battery in the power supply unit so that the battery of the communication device may be charged.

The keypad may receive a key input from the user in order to control the communication device . The keypad may include a physical keypad installed on the front surface of the communication device or a virtual keypad displayed on the touch screen . The physical keypad installed on the front surface of the communication device may be excluded according to the performance or structure of the communication device . In the form of the virtual keypad the keypad may not be a separate component and so the dashed lines in about the keypad indicate that a separate physical component as the keypad is optional and may be omitted depending on the implementation of the touch screen and or the communication device .

The sensor module includes at least one sensor for detecting the state of the communication device . For example the sensor module may include a proximity sensor for detecting whether the user is close to or in contact with the communication device an illuminance sensor for detecting the amount of light around the communication device and a motion sensor for detecting the motion of the communication device for example the rotation of the communication device or acceleration or vibration applied to the communication device . At least one sensor may detect the state of the communication device may generate a signal matched to the detection and may transmit the generated signal to the controller . According to the performance of the communication device sensors may be added to or removed from the sensor module . The motion sensor and other sensors may include a gyro sensor an acceleration sensor a compass device and any other known sensors for detecting motion or orientation and changes thereof of the communication device .

According to the control of the controller the storage unit may store a signal or data which is input output in response to an operation of each of the mobile communication module the sub communication module the image processor the camera module the GPS module the input output module the sensor module and the touch screen . The storage unit may store a control program for controlling the communication device or the controller and applications.

The term storage unit may include the storage unit a ROM a RAM or a memory card such as a Secure Digital SD card or a memory stick which is mounted on the communication device . The storage unit may include a non volatile memory a volatile memory a Hard Disk Drive HDD or a Solid State Drive SSD .

According to the control of the controller the power supply unit may supply power to or from one battery or multiple batteries disposed in the housing of the communication device . The one battery or the multiple batteries supply power to the communication device . Also the power supply unit may supply power provided by an external power source to the communication device through a wired cable connected to the connector .

The touch screen may provide the user with a user interface matched to various services for example a telephone call data transmission broadcasting and photographing and thus may include a display screen. The touch screen may transmit an analog signal matched to at least one touch which is input to the user interface to the touch screen controller .

The configuration of the controller according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention in the communication device configured as described above is shown in more detail in . Referring to the controller includes an image storage direction judgment unit a rotation judgment unit a display direction judgment unit a rendering determination unit and a resizing determination unit .

The image storage direction judgment unit identifies an image storage direction of a camera which is used during a video call among the cameras and mounted on or in the communication device . The image storage direction corresponds to a fixed or default value and thus may be previously stored in the storage unit .

Otherwise according to another exemplary embodiment of the present invention the image storage direction judgment unit may judge an image storage direction by using a storage state of image data.

For example when a user inputs a request for execution of a video call application a guide message is displayed or output for example with an audible message to the user which may induce the user to video capture an image including a face of the user for use to identify the user in the video call. Accordingly when the user captures the face of the user and a face image including the face is stored the image storage direction judgment unit performs face recognition on the face image using face recognition methods known in the art. The image storage direction judgment unit compares a face direction obtained from a result of performing the face recognition with a basic state of the communication device and may judge a state of storing the face image. For example in the case of the mobile phone shown in when the image storage direction judgment unit performs face recognition on the image data the image storage direction judgment unit may judge that an image has been rotated by 90 degrees with a basic state of the mobile phone as a reference and the rotated image has been stored.

According to another exemplary embodiment of the present invention the user is induced by an output text video or audio message or instructions to select and input through the touch screen and or the keypad a storage direction of the captured image and an image storage direction may be judged according to a result of the selection. In other words when the user inputs a request for execution of a video call application a guide message which may induce capturing an image including a face is provided to the user. Accordingly when the user captures the face and a face image including the face is stored in the storage unit the image storage direction judgment unit displays face images of four versions which have different rotation angles and causes the user to select a face image in which the face is normally displayed. In particular as shown in the image storage direction judgment unit displays an array of images in the case of various arrays of images with a first image in which the face is displayed in a normal direction a second image in which the face is rotated by 90 degrees a third image in which the face is rotated by 180 degrees and a fourth image in which the face is rotated by 270 degrees. Then the image storage direction judgment unit compares an image which the user has selected from among the first second third and fourth images with the face image stored in the storage unit and thereby may judge a state of storing the face image.

The image storage direction identified according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention as described above is stored in the storage unit . After the image storage direction is stored the stored image storage direction may be used without repeating the process of the judgment as described above.

The rotation judgment unit detects a device rotation angle of the communication device which is set with the basic state of the communication device as a reference by using a sensor value received from the sensor module . Then while the video call is maintained when the rotation judgment unit judges that the communication device has been rotated by 90 degrees or more with the finally detected device rotation angle as a reference the rotation judgment unit generates a rotation angle change event and calculates a changed rotation angle of the communication device with the basic state of the communication device as the reference.

Depending on an image storage direction and a device rotation angle of the communication device the state of a video call image may change as shown in . is a view showing examples of various video call images. Referring to a first case having a first array of images represents video call images transmitted by the communication device when device rotation angles are equal to 0 degrees 90 degrees 180 degrees and 270 degrees respectively in a case where an image storage direction of the communication device is equal to 90 degrees.

The second case having a second array of images represents video call images transmitted by the communication device when device rotation angles are equal to 0 degrees 90 degrees 180 degrees and 270 degrees respectively in a case where an image storage direction of the communication device is equal to 0 degrees.

A third case having a third array of images represents video call images transmitted by the communication device when device rotation angles are equal to 0 degrees 90 degrees 180 degrees and 270 degrees respectively in a case where an image storage direction of the communication device is equal to 90 degrees.

The display direction judgment unit identifies a display direction of an image matched to a counterpart of a video call which is displayed on the display screen of the communication device during the video call. In other words the display direction judgment unit identifies whether the image matched to the counterpart of the video call is displayed as the portrait type or as the landscape type by the communication device . A display direction of the image matched to the counterpart of the video call is determined according to a set value of a video call application and the set value may be changed by the user.

The rendering determination unit determines a rendering angle of a video call image received from a counterpart device of a video call during the video call. The rendering determination unit calculates a rendering angle of the video call image by using information on a rotation angle in particular the image storage direction and the device rotation angle of the video call image received from the counterpart device of the video call and a device rotation angle of the communication device . The term rendering angle refers to a rotation angle which is to be applied to the received video call image in order to enable the received video call image to be displayed in a normal state that is the typical non rotated image of a person with the head near the top of the image and the lower body near the bottom of the image. The rendering angle may be calculated by using Equation 1 below. . 1 

Rrepresents a rendering angle Crepresents an image storage direction of a communication device which transmits a video call image Rrepresents a device rotation angle of the communication device which transmits the video call image and Rrepresents a device rotation angle of a communication device which receives a video call image.

The rendering determination unit sets the calculated rendering angle for the image processor and thereby enables the video call image to be rendered.

The resizing determination unit determines whether the received video call image is resized. When the resizing determination unit determines that the received video call image needs to be resized the resizing determination unit controls the image processor so as to resize the received video call image and performs a control operation so as to display a resized video call image. Whether the received video call image is resized is determined by using the image storage direction of the communication device which has transmitted the video call image the device rotation angle of the communication device which has transmitted the video call image and the display direction of the communication device which has received the video call image. A method which determines whether an image is resized is described in Table 1 below using pseudocode.

In Table 1 the operator represents the modulo operation with the modulus of 180 degrees. As used in Table 1 when the received video call image is displayed as the portrait type a display direction becomes 0. In contrast when the received video call image is displayed as the landscape type the display direction becomes 90.

Table 2 to Table 4 represent rendering angles and whether each image is resized in various cases. First Table 2 is a table representing a rendering angle and whether an image is resized according to a display direction of the reception device with respect to the video call image and a device rotation angle of the reception or counterpart device when an image storage direction of the transmission device with respect to a video call image is equal to 90 degrees.

Referring to Table 2 and when the transmission device having an image storage direction of 90 degrees transmits a video call image during a video call in the state of a rotation angle of 0 degrees a first image in the first case of is transmitted to a counterpart device of the video call which is the reception device. At this time when a display direction of the reception device is portrait and a rotation angle of the reception device is equal to 0 degrees a rendering angle of the first image is calculated as 90 degrees and it is determined that the first image is not resized. Accordingly the first image is rotated in a direction of 90 by the image processor the rotated first image is displayed by the reception device and thereby a correct image is displayed.

In another example when the transmission device having an image storage direction of 90 degrees transmits a video call image during a video call in the state of a rotation angle of 90 degrees a second image in the first case of is transmitted to the counterpart device of the video call which is the reception device. At this time when the display direction of the reception device is portrait and the rotation angle of the reception device is equal to 0 degrees a rendering angle of the second image is calculated as 180 degrees and it is determined that the second image is not resized. Accordingly the second image is rotated in a direction of 180. Also because the display direction of the reception device is portrait the second image of the landscape type must be resized in order to meet a display state of the reception device. The resizing for example may be performed in such a manner as to first crop the video call image to meet a horizontal to vertical ratio of the display screen and then enlarge the overall cropped video call image. Otherwise the resizing may be performed in such a manner as to enlarge a face area part to a relatively small degree and enlarge a background part to a relatively large degree in the case of performing face recognition on the received video call image.

Table 3 is a table representing a rendering angle and whether an image is resized according to a display direction of the reception device with respect to the video call image and a device rotation angle of the reception device when an image storage direction of the transmission device with respect to a video call image is equal to 0 degrees.

Table 4 is a table representing a rendering angle and whether an image is resized according to a display direction of the reception device with respect to the video call image and a device rotation angle of the reception device when an image storage direction of the transmission device with respect to a video call image is equal to 90 degrees.

A process for transmitting a video call image during a video call according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention in the communication device configured as described above will be described below with reference to .

When a user inputs a request for execution of a video call application and a request for origination of a video call to a particular communication device the controller of the communication device identifies an image storage direction of the communication device through the image storage direction judgment unit in step . Also when the user inputs the request for the origination of the video call the controller detects a current device rotation angle of the communication device through the rotation judgment unit . Then the controller includes the identified image storage direction and the detected device rotation angle in a control message supported by a video call service and transmits the control message including the identified image storage direction and the detected device rotation angle to the particular communication device as the counterpart in the video call. The number of the particular communication devices may be plural.

In addition to transmitting the identified image storage direction and the detected device rotation angle the communication device includes information on a screen ratio matched to a display screen included in the communication device in the control message and transmits the control message including the information on the screen ratio to the particular communication device. Thereafter when the particular communication device accepts the video call the originating communication device receives a control message including information on a screen ratio of a display screen supported by the particular communication device an image storage direction of the particular communication device and a device rotation angle of the particular communication device from the particular communication device. Accordingly the communication device generates a video call image according to the screen ratio supported by the particular communication device transmits the generated video call image and a voice of the video call to the particular communication device and performs the video call. Then in step the rotation judgment unit senses a change in the rotation angle of the communication device by using a sensor value received from the sensor module . When the rotation judgment unit judges that the communication device has been rotated by 90 degrees or more with the finally detected device rotation angle as a reference in step the rotation judgment unit detects the device rotation angle and generates a rotation angle change event and the controller proceeds to step . In step the rotation judgment unit detects determines or otherwise calculates the changed device rotation angle of the communication device with the basic state of the communication device as the reference.

Then in step the controller includes the image storage direction of the communication device and the newly detected device rotation angle in a control message and transmits the control message including re transmitting the image storage direction of the communication device and transmitting the newly detected device rotation angle to the particular communication device. Thereafter the controller proceeds to step . In step the controller identifies whether the video call has been completed and ends the method of once the video call is completed. Otherwise in step if the controller identifies that the video call has not been completed the controller loops back to step and repeatedly performs step to step until the completion of the video call is detected in step .

Referring back to step if the controller does not detect a change in the device rotation angle the controller proceeds directly to step and skips steps .

As described above when the video call is initiated and while the video call is being performed the communication device transmits the image storage direction and the device rotation angle of the communication device to the counterpart device of the video call and may provide a correct video call image to the counterpart device.

Meanwhile a process in which the communication device processes a video call image received from the counterpart device of the video call during the video call will be described below with reference to .

Referring to in step the controller of the communication device identifies an image storage direction and a device rotation angle which are included in a control message received from the particular communication device which is the counterpart device of the video call. Then the controller proceeds to step . In step the controller identifies a display direction of a received video call image which the display direction judgment unit sets for a video call application of the communication device . Then the controller detects a current rotation angle of the communication device itself as the reception device which received the control message through the rotation judgment unit . Thereafter in step the rendering determination unit and the resizing determination unit determine a rendering angle of the received video call image and determine whether the received video call image is resized by using Equation 1 and the method included in Table 1 and the rendering determination unit and the resizing determination unit set the determined values for the image processor . Accordingly the rendering determination unit and the resizing determination unit enable the received video call image to be rendered or resized.

Thereafter in step the controller identifies whether a control message including an image storage direction and a device rotation angle of the transmission device is received from the counterpart device which is the transmission device which transmits a video call image to the communication device . When the control message is received the controller proceeds to step . In step the controller re determines a rendering angle of the received video call image and whether the received video call image is resized and sets re determined values for the image processor . Accordingly the controller enables the received video call image to be rendered or resized. In particular according to a change in the rotation angle of the transmission device the direction of the video call image is also changed and a process for correcting the change in the direction of the video call image is performed. The controller then proceeds to step .

Referring back to step when a result of the identification in step shows that the control message is not received the controller proceeds to step . In step the controller identifies whether the display direction or the device rotation angle of the communication device has been changed. The display direction of the received video call image may be changed by a user. When the display direction of the received video call image is changed the change in the display direction of the received video call image must be considered while image processing is applied to the received video call image. When the device rotation angle of the communication device is changed the change in the device rotation angle of the communication device must also be considered while image processing is applied to the received video call image. Accordingly when the result of the identification in step shows that the display direction or the device rotation angle of the communication device has been changed the controller proceeds to step . However in step if neither of the display direction or the device rotation angle of the communication device has been changed the controller proceeds to step .

In step the controller checks whether the video call has been completed. If so the method of ends. However if the video call has not been completed the controller loops back to step and repeatedly performs step to step until the completion of the video call is detected in step .

As described above the transmission communication device provides information on a rotation angle of a video call image transmitted during a video call to the reception communication device corresponding to a counterpart of the video call. Then the reception communication device renders the received video call image by using the information on the rotation angle of the received video call image and displays a rendered video call image. Accordingly an image of a counterpart of the video call can be normally provided during the video call.

Although the specific exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been described in the description of the present invention as described above various changes and modifications may be practiced without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example in the exemplary embodiments of the present invention a case has been described as an example where both rendering and resizing of a video call image are considered. However in another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a configuration may be implemented in such a manner that a video call image is not resized and only a rendering angle is calculated before the calculated rendering angle is applied to the video call image. Also in the exemplary embodiments of the present invention a case has been described as an example of processing a video call image during a video call. However this configuration may be similarly applied to a still image. For example after a still image is first generated by each of the cameras and and the still images from the cameras are then processed by the image processor tag information matched to the generated still image which includes an image storage direction of the communication device and a device rotation angle of the communication device during capturing of the still image is stored together with the captured still image in the storage unit . Then when the still image is transmitted to another communication device the still image is transmitted together with the relevant tag information and another communication device processes the received still image in a process similar to the above process for processing a video call image and displays the processed still image.

Also the methods according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in the form of a program of instructions executable by various computer apparatus and methods and may be recorded on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium can include a program of instructions data files data structures and the like or a combination thereof. The program of instructions recorded on the medium may be specially designed and configured for the present invention or may be publicly known and available to those having ordinary knowledge in the field of computer software.

According to the present invention it is possible to provide an optimal video call screen during a video call and in particular it is possible to provide a normal video call image regardless of the type of communication device which performs a video call. Also according to the present invention it is possible to provide a normal video call image even when a user rotates the communication device which performs the video call.

The above described apparatus and methods according to the present invention can be implemented in hardware or firmware or as software or computer code or combinations thereof. In addition the software or computer code can also be stored in a non transitory recording medium such as a CD ROM a RAM a ROM whether erasable or rewritable or not a floppy disk CDs DVDs memory chips a hard disk a magnetic storage media an optical recording media or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium a computer readable recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered in such software computer code software modules software objects instructions applications applets apps etc. that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer a digital computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include volatile and or non volatile storage and memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. In addition the program may be electronically transferred through any medium such as communication signals transmitted by wire wireless connections and their equivalents. The programs and computer readable recording medium can also be distributed in network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

While the present invention has been shown and described with reference to certain embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore the spirit and scope of the present invention is not limited to the described embodiments thereof but is defined by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

