---

title: Transport functions virtualization for wavelength division multiplexing (WDM)-based optical networks
abstract: A method for virtualizing an optical network, comprising: abstracting optical resource information corresponding to resources within the optical network, constructing a plurality of candidate paths for one or more optical reachability graph (ORG) node pairs, determining whether the candidate paths are optical reachable paths, and creating an ORG link between each ORG node pair when at least one optical reachable path exists for the ORG node pair, wherein linking the ORG node pairs creates an ORG. In another embodiment, a computer program product comprising executable instructions when executed by a processor causes a node to perform the following: determine an optical network's optical-electrical-optical (OEO) conversion capability, partition a plurality of service sites into one or more electrical reachability graph (ERG) nodes, determine a grooming capability for each ERG node, and construct a plurality of electrical-layer reach paths between the ERG nodes to form an ERG.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09350481&OS=09350481&RS=09350481
owner: Futurewei Technologies, Inc.
number: 09350481
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131007
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 711 011 filed Oct. 8 2012 by Wei Wei et al. and entitled Systems and Methods for Transport Network Virtualization which is incorporated herein by reference as if reproduced in its entirety.

As Internet traffic continues to dramatically increase today s communication and data networks face many challenges to support and manage the vast amounts of Internet data. Specifically modern optical networks are constantly faced with demands to increase bandwidth for a single wavelength implement flexible connection requests and provide on the fly support for new applications such as network virtualization. One method to improve modern optical networks has been the advancement in optical coherent communication technologies that create software defined cognitive optical networks CONs . CONs can support reprogramming of hardware transmission logic and new network applications e.g. adaptive bandwidth services by using intelligent software such as digital signal processing DSP software in the optical transport plane and generalized multi protocol label switching GMPLS in the optical control plane and flexible hardware such as bandwidth variable reconfigurable optical add drop multiplexers ROADMs and optical orthogonal frequency division multiplexers OOFDMs .

Additionally with a surge of data center applications like cloud computing and pressure to reduce capital expenditure CAPEX and operating expenditure OPEX for service providers the trend in the telecommunication industry has been to integrate packet transport platforms with optical transport platforms. Some examples of integrating transport platforms with optical transport platforms include Ethernet over optical transport network OTN Internet Protocol IP over wavelength division multiplexing WDM and GMPLS unified control plane technologies. However integrating transport platforms with optical transport platforms creates complex networks that are often difficult to manage inflexible and may not be service extensible. For instance managing a packet optical transport network may involve using highly adaptive service provisioning. The transport functions may need to not only provide bandwidth on demand BoD between a pair of source and destination nodes to accommodate dynamic packet flows efficiently but also provide reliable circuit among a set of nodes with minimum delay and different bandwidth granularities to form an application specific virtual network e.g. virtual network service .

The latest effort in managing an integrated packet optical transport network has been the development of Software Defined Networking SDN path computation element PCE protocols and Open Flow OF protocols. Fundamentally SDN decouples the control and forward planes within a network and uses a centralized controller to manage the control plane functions. The combination of SDN and OF can create highly scalable Ethernet switch networks by virtualizing the layer 2 L2 and layer 3 L3 data center network. The SDN virtualization may also virtualize L2 L3 layer 4 L4 switches routers and firewalls in terms of sharing IP media access control MAC addresses and improve forwarding bandwidth among a variety of higher layer clients. Unfortunately the existing L2 and L3 virtualization approaches are unable to guarantee deterministic latency jitter and resilience for a variety of circuit services as L2 and L3 switches intrinsically have relative poor bandwidth isolation capability. Furthermore current SDN development focuses on virtualization of packet networks and does not provide for virtualization of WDM transport networks.

In one embodiment the disclosure includes a method for virtualizing transport functions in an optical network comprising abstracting optical resource information corresponding to resources within the optical network constructing a plurality of candidate paths for one or more optical reachability graph ORG node pairs determining whether the candidate paths are optical reachable paths and creating an ORG link between each ORG node pair when at least one optical reachable path exists for the ORG node pair wherein linking the ORG node pairs creates an ORG.

In another embodiment the disclosure includes a computer program product comprising computer executable instructions stored on a non transitory medium that when executed by a processor causes a node to perform the following determine an optical physical network s optical electrical optical OEO conversion capability partition a plurality of service sites into one or more electrical reachability graph ERG nodes determine a grooming capability for each ERG node and construct a plurality of electrical layer reach paths between the ERG nodes to form an ERG.

In yet another embodiment the disclosure includes an apparatus for virtualizing a optical network comprising a memory comprising an ORG module and an ERG module a processor coupled to the memory wherein the processor executes the ORG module to cause the apparatus to perform the following maintain optical transmission engineering rules for the optical network maintain shared risk link groups SRLGs for the optical network determine a plurality of optical reachable paths using the optical transmission engineering rules and the SRLGs and construct an ORG by interconnecting a plurality of ORG nodes via optical reachable paths wherein the processor executes the ERG module to cause the apparatus to perform the following partition the ORG nodes into a plurality of ERG nodes that perform grooming functions determine a plurality of electrical layer reachable paths for the ERG nodes and construct an ERG over the ORG by interconnecting the ERG nodes with the electrical layer reachable paths.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although an illustrative implementation of one or more embodiments are provided below the disclosed systems apparatuses and or methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below including the exemplary designs and implementations illustrated and described herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. While certain aspects of conventional technologies have been discussed to facilitate the present disclosure applicants in no way disclaim these technical aspects and it is contemplated that the present disclosure may encompass one or more of the conventional technical aspects discussed herein.

In contrast to existing L2 L3 virtualization virtualization of WDM based optical networks may support transport functions that guarantee bandwidth partition and isolation capabilities with varying degrees of performance. Transport functions virtualization may be capable of perceiving physical fiber network transmission performance and reconfiguring the WDM based optical networks accordingly e.g. traffic engineering . For example software defined optical transponders in the WDM based optical networks are designed to operate in a flexible manner. The software defined optical transponder may reduce the number of optical regenerators e.g. re time re transmit re shape 3R regenerators when each optical path has a relatively small Optical Signal To Noise Ratio OSNR margin. Conversely when the OSNR margins are relatively larger for each optical path the transponders may increase the transmission throughput.

Disclosed herein are at least one method apparatus and system that virtualize an optical network. A two tier network virtualization layer may be created by abstracting various optical and electrical resources within the physical WDM optical substrate layer e.g. physical fiber network into two types of resource databases. The first resource database produces an ORG that abstracts optical transmission capability to form a transmission capability connectivity topology. In one embodiment the transmission capability topology may hide the optical impairments and wavelength continuity constraints from routing and wavelength assignment RWA algorithms to prevent the wavelength level service provisioning and restoration from analyzing detailed physical fiber transmission attributes. The second resource database may produce an ERG that builds an electrical optical channel logical topology using optical reachable paths obtained in the ORG. In one embodiment the ERG may hide electrical constraints such as electrical backplanes between different sub racks and regenerators. An Open application programming interface API interface may be used to communicate and provide bandwidth pool information to higher layer controllers e.g. client interfaces via a northbound interface.

The virtualized transport network may be built on top of the physical WDM optical substrate layer and may convert the physical WDM optical substrate layer into a bandwidth pool. The virtualized transport network may also be configured to provide various transport functions such as virtual private network VPN . The virtualized transport network may virtualize the physical WDM optical substrate layer by abstracting various optical and electrical resources constraints and or network control and management policies within each of the physical transport networks . The virtualized transport network may comprise virtualized nodes that form a topology that may differ from the topology of the physical WDM optical substrate layer . The virtualized nodes may be grooming switches OTN switches and or any other network components that transport data between two service sites. The virtualized transport network may use an Open API to provide communication between a centralized controller and one or more VTN applications . The VTN applications may be a variety of network applications such as adaptive bandwidth services secure cloud services and self service provisioning that may be implemented by a client service provider and or other network operators.

The two tier virtualized transport network layer may have a two tier framework that comprises an ORG virtualization layer and an ERG virtualization layer . The two tier virtualized transport network layer may hide optical constraints electrical constraints and or bandwidth reconfiguration migration operations found within the physical WDM optical substrate layer . Specifically the ORG virtualization layer may hide physical fiber topology and specific optical layer constraints such as WDM transmission impairments and wavelength continuity constraints. Furthermore the ORG virtualization layer may decouple optical impairments and wavelength constraints from RWA algorithms and produce optical transmission capability using various WDM engineering rules. As such the ORG virtualization layer may produce a consistent end to end ORG abstraction that may be useful when the physical WDM optical substrate layer supports different transmission engineering rules. For example the physical WDM optical substrate layer may be a Carrier network that comprises optical nodes from different vendors and within different domains.

In the ORG virtualization layer may abstract optical resource information from the physical WDM optical substrate layer to form an ORG. The ORG comprises ORG nodes that are interconnected with optical reachable paths . Optical paths between ORG nodes may be evaluated based on a variety of transmission engineering rules that include but are not limited to fiber characteristics optical amplifier dispersion compensation module WDM engineering rules and different ROADM structures. Optical paths that satisfy the transmission engineering rules e.g. the receiver side OSNR should be greater than the back to back OSNR requirement between any two ORG nodes may be classified as an optical reachable path .

In addition to transmission engineering rules other constraints may also be accounted in determining an optical reachable path such as SRLG wavelength continuity and network control and management policies. The optical reachable path shown in may represent an optical path between any two ORG nodes that do not include regenerators within the optical path. Thus OEO conversion characteristics are typically not be considered when forming the ORG virtualization layer . An ORG node may be a service site and or other type of network element that is able to transport optical data to another ORG node via an optical reachable path . The ORG node may be created from abstracting various optical resource information based on the optical nodes e.g. ROADM within the physical WDM optical substrate layer . The ORG node may represent an abstracted optical service site with various transport functions that include but are not limited to wavelength multiplexing demultiplexing functions cross connect functions and long haul transmission functions.

The ERG virtualization layer may decouple the electrical layer constraints from bandwidth resource management algorithms. illustrates that the ERG virtualization layer may be built on top of the ORG virtualization layer . The ERG virtualization layer may partition the ORG nodes e.g. service sites into one or more ERG nodes e.g. non blocking grooming switch and abstract the grooming and OEO conversion capabilities to form an ERG. As shown in the ERG virtualization layer partitions ORG nodes into ERG nodes optical switch and regenerator . The ERG nodes may be grooming switches OTN switches and or any other network component e.g. line card used to facilitate communication between two service sites. The ERG node will be discussed in more detail in . The regenerator may be any device that performs OEO conversion such as a 3R regenerator. The optical switch may function as a ROADM and or any other type of optical device that transmits and receives optical data.

The ERG nodes may be interconnected via ERG virtual links . The ERG virtual links may represent reachable paths between ERG nodes that include both existing optical channels OCHs e.g. transporting data and lit up OCHs and potential OCHs. Potential OCHs may be OCHs that are not transporting data e.g. non lit up OCHs that may utilize existing regenerators and line cards transponders inside the network. In contrast to the optical reachable paths the ERG virtual links may be reachable electrical optical paths with regenerators e.g. OEO conversion within the electrical optical paths. The ERG virtual links may also include reachable electrical optical paths without regenerators . In one embodiment the ERG virtualization layer may have a full mesh topology such that the ERG virtualization layer may provide any to any service connectivity between ERG nodes that is potentially a single hop in the electrical domain and thereby improve quality of service QoS assurance. In another embodiment the ERG virtualization layer may have the same topology as the ORG if there are no regenerators configured in the physical WDM optical substrate layer . The ERG virtual links will be discussed in more detail in .

The two tier virtualized transport network layer may provide several benefits to optical network design control and management. The virtualization of optical layer and electrical layer resource e.g. wavelengths 3R pool and transponder bank may be represented as layered graph models that logically separate optical and electrical layer functions and supports transport functions virtualization between packet OTN and physical WDM transport technologies. New services and software algorithms e.g. new supporting features may be deployed without relying on a particular physical optical substrate e.g. without binding to particular optical network hardware and topology . As a result service providers may gain optical programmability automation and network control to build highly scalable and flexible virtual networks. Furthermore the two tier virtualized transport network layer may simplify the network control and management process that provides flexible bandwidth service provisioning and scalable virtual transport network solutions within a vender heterogonous optical networking environment.

The two tier virtualized transport network layer may be managed by a centralized controller such as a PCE controller and or an OF based software controller. The centralized controller may comprise two different middleware modules to translate and map the virtualization across topological layers. The ORG middleware module may primarily focus on producing the ORG for the ORG virtualization layer . The ORG middleware module may form the ORG virtualization layer by converting the physical WDM optical substrate layer into a transmission capability aware logical topology. To create the transmission capability aware logical topology the centralized controller may abstract resource information for optical nodes and optical amplifier nodes e.g. physical WDM transmission resources and determine e.g. measure the optical hardware transmission limits such as optical power OSNR dispersion and non linear transmission effects from a network level viewpoint. The ORG middleware module may also decouple the ORG virtualization layer from one or more optical constraints such as transmission impairments and wavelength continuity constraints. SRLG and wavelength usage information can also be maintained within the ORG middleware module to prevent the RWA algorithms from interacting with vendor specific physical fiber data structures.

The ERG middleware module within the centralized controller may form the ERG virtualization layer by extracting the networking capability of regenerators that perform OEO conversion and the grooming functional capability of virtual nodes e.g. OTN switch Ethernet switch to form an electrical optical channel logical topology. The ERG virtualization layer may be a virtualized optical network view that illustrates the cross connects and wavelengths managed in physical WDM optical substrate layer . Depending on the regenerators e.g. 3R regenerators configuration and the ORG the ERG virtualization layer may determine whether two ERG nodes e.g. a grooming node are reachable without the need of intermediate ERG nodes . For example if the regenerators are already configured along the shortest path between the two ERG nodes then the two ERG nodes are reachable without the need of intermediate grooming functions. The ERG middleware module may also partition the ORG nodes e.g. service site into a plurality of ERG nodes allowing service providers to evaluate electrical reachability between any ERG nodes . Partitioning the ORG nodes may be used to design a more efficient virtual network with embedded mapping algorithms when treating the electrical grooming capacity as a node constraint. For both ORG and ERG the paths between nodes can be weighted by different polices such as the total number of reachable paths or the total number of OEO transverses and may be programmable to satisfy various Carrier preferences. The centralization control node will be discussed in more detail below.

The centralized controller may comprise the ORG middleware module and the ERG middleware module . The ORG middleware module may be configured to perform the optical transmission abstraction and may comprise the ORG module the transmission engineering rules module and the SRLG management module . The transmission engineering rules module may be configured to store and or maintain a set of transmission engineering rules that include WDM engineering rules different constraints from the optical devices e.g. ROADM structures and equipment parameters e.g. parameters for different types of transponders . Moreover the transmission engineering rules module may store and or maintain different domain management policies and network control policies for the physical WDM optical substrate layer. The SRLG management module may store and maintain SRLGs and may perform path optimization using SRLGs. The SRLG management module may be configured for SRLG association management to determine diverse routing paths. SRLGs refer to where the links in the physical WDM optical substrate layer share a common fiber and or a common physical attribute. If one link fails other links in the group may fail too. As such the links in a SRLG group may have a shared risk.

The ORG module may calculate some or all of the reachable optical paths without any regenerators and or other OEO conversion nodes within the reachable optical paths. The ORG module may calculate the reachable optical paths for each node using a variety of path computing algorithms such as K shortest path KSP algorithms and or depth first search DFS algorithms. The ORG module may subsequently verify the quality of transmission QoT of each reachable optical path by using fiber propagation simulations or experimental approaches well known in the art. The ORG module may also verify the QoT while considering the co transmission impact on existing reachable optical paths. The ORG module may construct an ORG graph that depicts a connected graph among all node pairs. Each ORG node in the ORG graph may be associated with one or multiple physical fiber routes that represent a potential optical path indication according to an RWA algorithm.

The ERG middleware module may be configured to provide VTN control and management and may partition physical transport resources into multiple VTNs. The ERG middleware module may comprise an ERG module a transponder regenerator pool module a path computation module a RWA and traffic grooming module a VTN topology migration module and a VTN provision and reconfiguration module . The ERG module may be configured to design and or redesign the virtual electrical topology based on the aggregated and or groomed traffic from virtual machines VMs IP routers Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS Transport Profile TP Ethernet OTN switches and other types of network nodes that operate in the electrical domain. The ERG module may produce a set of optical channel transport unit k OTUk and or OCHs between each virtual ORG node pair e.g. a pair of electrical grooming switches within the ERG. In one embodiment the ERG may have ERG nodes that indicate whether two ERG nodes are electrical layer reachable and may pass through ERG virtual links with an available optical channel data unit k ODUk resource without the need of intermediate grooming.

The transponder and regenerator pool module may be responsible for transponder OEO resource dimensioning sharing and migration e.g. centralization that may affect the ERG. The path computation module RWA and traffic grooming module VTN topology migration module and VTN provision and reconfiguration module may be used for optimizing network performance for traffic engineering and network engineering issues. Specifically the path computation module may be configured to optimize route traffic flows through existing optical paths from the ORG and or additional paths created in the ERG. The VTN provision and reconfiguration module may be used to trigger and perform a reconfiguration process of virtual electrical topology under situations such as fiber cut as well as traffic variation. The RWA and traffic grooming module may be used to assign network resources that include wavelengths regenerators and grooming resources to various VTNs. The VTN topology migration module may be configured to rearrange existing OCH bandwidth resources via one or more migration mechanisms to optimize the usage of network resources.

ORG numbers represent the number of OMS physical routes between each ORG node pair. Using as an example four different OMS physical routes exist between ORG nodes with ORG node ID of six and ORG node ID of one. ORG numbers with a value of zero indicate that there are no optical reachable paths between the ORG nodes identified by the ORG node IDs and . ORG numbers with a value of one or more indicate that there is at least one optical reachable path between the ORG nodes identified by the ORG node IDs and

The OMS physical route table may indicate the OMS routes between two ORG nodes identified by ORG node IDs and . The OMS physical route table comprises a first column e.g. left most side of the OMS physical route table that indicates the OMS physical route IDs. The remaining columns within the OMS physical route table may indicate the OMS link IDs used to form the OMS physical route. For example the first column includes numbers 1 4. Number 1 represents the OMS physical route ID and the numbers afterward within the same row represent the OMS link IDs used to form the OMS physical route 1 between ORG node ID of six and ORG node ID of one. As shown in OMS physical route 1 is constructed using OMS links identified by OMS link ID 1 and OMS link ID 2. OMS physical route 2 is constructed using OMS links identified by OMS link ID 5 OMS link ID 3 and OMS link ID 2. 

The OMS attributes may be indexed by the OMS link ID and may include optical transmission parameters Optical Transport Section OTS Fiber spans transmission latency wavelength list administration weight SRLG list and carried OCH list . The optical transmission parameters may represent physical fiber transmission attributes such as polarization mode dispersion PMD chromatic dispersion CD and OSNR for the OMS link and may be about 80 bytes long. The OTS Fiber spans may represent the different types of optical media and fibers within the OMS link and be about 200 bytes long. Transmission latency may represent the latency or time delay for the OMS link and may be about four bytes long. The wavelength list may represent the set of wavelengths used to transport optical signals and may be about 320 bytes long. The administration weight may represent the weight and or cost associated with the OMS link which may be specified by network providers and may be about four bytes long. The SRLG list may represent the SRLGs within the OMS link and may be about 60 bytes long. The Carried OCH list may represent the OCHs that currently carry traffic using this OMS link and may be about 320 bytes long.

ERG numbers may represent the number of electrical layer reachable routes between each ERG node pair. Using as an example four electrical layer reachable routes exist between ERG node with ERG node ID of six and ERG node ID of one. ERG numbers with a value of zero indicate that there are no electrical reachable paths between the ERG nodes identified by the ERG node IDs and . ERG numbers with a value of one or more indicate that there is at least one optical reachable path between the ERG nodes identified by the ERG node IDs and

Each of the electrical layer reachable routes may comprise a plurality of resource attributes that may include OCH type transport latency transport cost constraints SRLG and OCH OTUk route . The OCH type may represent the data rate specification such as 10 gigabit G 40 G and 100 G. Transport latency may represent routing criteria for the latency or time delay for the OCH OTUk route . Cost may represent routing criteria for the weight and or cost associated with the OCH OTUk route which may be specified by network providers. Constraints may represent mapping switching limitations and other equipment constraints associated with the OCH OTUk route . The SRLG may represent the SRLGs within the OMS link. The OCH OTUk route may represent the OMS route with additional regenerators between the two ERG nodes. The OCH OTUk route may comprise wave IDs OMS link IDs and regenerator IDs . The wave IDs may identify the wavelengths used by the OCH OTUk route . The OMS link IDs may identify the OMS links within the OCH OTUk route . The regenerator ID may identify the regenerator within the OCH OTUk route .

The VTN service is provisioned over the ERG topology with the objective to minimize the total network cost. The virtual link provisioning solution may be derived from a least cost first algorithm to place line cards e.g. grooming capacity to create OCHs along the ERG virtual links e.g. electrical reachable paths while considering the ERG node constraints such as the ODUk mapping limitation and cross connect granularity. The process to reduce the total cost of OCHs may be based on approximation algorithms of integer linear programming ILP or meta heuristic algorithms such as tabu search or simulated annealing.

In another embodiment the ORG and ERG may be combined together to determine placement of additional regenerator and grooming resources. The central controller node may be configured to group traffic flows based on different priorities and bandwidth granularities for each ERG node pair. A path computation module e.g. path computation module described in may initially determine a route over the ERG and if the service routing module is unable to find a route an electrical reachable path may be created over the ORG. Afterwards an RWA algorithm may be implemented to assign wavelengths to the fiber route a regenerator placement may be performed as described in and the ERG may be updated accordingly. Different polices such as load balancing diversity routing and bandwidth admission control can also be taken into account to optimize the resource utilization. For example for a small granularity traffic flow e.g. the bandwidth is not greater than about 80 of OCH a better option may be to add more grooming resources e.g. line cards and switching fabric rather than to place regenerators in the middle since the grooming resource can be easily shared among different ERG node pair traffic flows. However when the service flow is larger e.g. greater than 80 of OCH regenerators may be added in the middle because grooming resources typically are more expensive than the regenerators. The process may be iterative using optimization techniques to optimize network performance e.g. minimal number of wavelengths or total number of line cards transponder muxponders and regenerators .

Method may move to block and calculate the optical parameters for each optical candidate path based on transmission engineering rules. The optical parameters may be used to verify the QoT of each optical candidate path using fiber propagation simulations or experimental approaches that are well known in the art. Method may then proceed to block and determine whether the optical candidate path satisfies the transmission engineering rules and other constraints. Other constraints may include but are not limited to SRLG wavelength continuity and domain management policies. Afterwards method may continue to block and store the optical candidate path as an optical reachable path when the optical candidate path satisfies the transmission engineering rules and other constraints. In other words method may classify the optical candidate path as an optical reachable path when the optical candidate path satisfies the transmission engineering rules and other constraints. In one embodiment method may store the optical reachable paths within the centralized controller node. Method may continue to block and create an ORG link between each ORG node pair when there is at least one optical reachable path for the ORG node pairs. The creation of the ORG links will determine the ORG topology.

At least some of the features methods described in the disclosure may be implemented in a network element. For instance the features methods of the disclosure may be implemented using hardware firmware and or software installed to run on hardware. The network element may be any device e.g. PCE controller and network management system NMS that virtualizes optical networks transport functions to construct ORGs and ERGs. is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a network element that creates ORGs and ERGs for the transport networks and shown in respectively.

The network element may comprise one or more downstream ports coupled to a transceiver Tx Rx which may be transmitters receivers or combinations thereof. The Tx Rx may transmit and or receive frames from other network nodes via the downstream ports . Similarly the network element may comprise another Tx Rx coupled to a plurality of upstream ports wherein the Tx Rx may transmit and or receive frames from other nodes via the upstream ports . The downstream ports and or upstream ports may include electrical and or optical transmitting and or receiving components.

A processor may be coupled to the Tx Rx and may be configured to process the frames and or determine which nodes to send e.g. transmit the frames. In one embodiment processor may comprise one or more multi core processors and or memory modules which may function as data stores buffers etc. The processor may be implemented as a general processor or may be part of one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs and or digital signal processors DSPs . Although illustrated as a single processor the processor is not so limited and may comprise multiple processors. The processor may be configured to implement any of the schemes described herein including methods and as described in respectively.

The memory module may be used to house the instructions for carrying out the system and methods described herein e.g. as a centralized controller. In one embodiment the memory module may comprise an ORG module that performs substantially the same functions as the ORG middleware module in . The ERG module may be configured to perform functions described in method in and may be implemented on the processor . Alternately the ORG module may be implemented directly on the processor . The memory module may also comprise an ERG module that performs substantially the same functions as the ERG middleware module in . The ERG module may be configured to perform functions described in method in .

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the network element at least one of the processor the cache and the long term storage are changed transforming the network element in part into a particular machine or apparatus e.g. a multi core forwarding architecture having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules known in the art. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules known in the art to an equivalent hardware implementation in an ASIC that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

At least one embodiment is disclosed and variations combinations and or modifications of the embodiment s and or features of the embodiment s made by a person having ordinary skill in the art are within the scope of the disclosure. Alternative embodiments that result from combining integrating and or omitting features of the embodiment s are also within the scope of the disclosure. Where numerical ranges or limitations are expressly stated such express ranges or limitations should be understood to include iterative ranges or limitations of like magnitude falling within the expressly stated ranges or limitations e.g. from about 1 to about 10 includes 2 3 4 etc. greater than 0.10 includes 0.11 0.12 0.13 etc. . For example whenever a numerical range with a lower limit R and an upper limit R is disclosed any number falling within the range is specifically disclosed. In particular the following numbers within the range are specifically disclosed R R k R R wherein k is a variable ranging from 1 percent to 100 percent with a 1 percent increment i.e. k is 1 percent 2 percent 3 percent 4 percent 5 percent . . . 70 percent 71 percent 72 percent . . . 95 percent 96 percent 97 percent 98 percent 99 percent or 100 percent. Moreover any numerical range defined by two R numbers as defined in the above is also specifically disclosed. The use of the term about means 10 of the subsequent number unless otherwise stated. Use of the term optionally with respect to any element of a claim means that the element is required or alternatively the element is not required both alternatives being within the scope of the claim. Use of broader terms such as comprises includes and having should be understood to provide support for narrower terms such as consisting of consisting essentially of and comprised substantially of. Accordingly the scope of protection is not limited by the description set out above but is defined by the claims that follow that scope including all equivalents of the subject matter of the claims. Each and every claim is incorporated as further disclosure into the specification and the claims are embodiment s of the present disclosure. The discussion of a reference in the disclosure is not an admission that it is prior art especially any reference that has a publication date after the priority date of this application. The disclosure of all patents patent applications and publications cited in the disclosure are hereby incorporated by reference to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or other details supplementary to the disclosure.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it may be understood that the disclosed systems and methods might be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

In addition techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and may be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

