---

title: Audio positioning system
abstract: In a method for directing a user of a mobile computing device to an object, a mobile computing device determines an area in which a user of the mobile computing device is located. The mobile computing device determines a location of an object within the area, in relation to the user. The mobile computing device provides at least one audio tone to indicate at least the location of the object in relation to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08988216&OS=08988216&RS=08988216
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08988216
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130329
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of assistive devices for visually impaired individuals and more particularly to directing a user of a mobile computing device to an object.

Traveling in unfamiliar spaces is challenging for the visually impaired. Travelers who are visually impaired have varying levels of difficulty in finding or accurately orienting themselves to any given location. Visually impaired travelers may find it difficult to locate a particular building or street and may find it particularly challenging to navigate one s way through an unfamiliar bounded location such as a store or a park. A global positioning system GPS may help pinpoint a traveler s location but does not effectively provide relational information of the traveler s surrounding space. A device can be used to identify particular objects having embedded identification tags but can only do so when a reader is in close proximity to the particular object.

Aspects of an embodiment of the present invention disclose a method computer program product and computing system for directing a user of a mobile computing device to an object. A mobile computing device determines an area in which a user of the mobile computing device is located. The mobile computing device determines a location of an object within the area in relation to the user. The mobile computing device provides at least one audio tone to indicate at least the location of the object in relation to the user.

Visually impaired individuals may determine their current location by using a Global Positioning System GPS . Though this technology may assist a visually impaired individual during travel the technology does not allow the user navigate to desired objects inside a smaller bounded area. An identification device may assist a visually impaired user in identifying objects that are embedded with identification tags however the device does not provide feedback about the distance of the location nor does the device navigate a route to the desired object.

Embodiments of the present invention identify and pinpoint objects within a bounded area e.g. a park a building and provide audio tones to indicate existing objects and their relative locations to a user.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code instructions embodied thereon.

Any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. Computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of a computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the Figures. depicts a diagram of distributed data processing environment in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. provides only an illustration of one embodiment and does not imply any limitations with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented.

Mobile computing device is connected to server computer over network . Network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a combination of the two or any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between mobile computing device and server computer in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Network may include wired wireless or fiber optic connections. Distributed data processing environment may include additional server computers client computers or other devices not shown. Additionally satellite can communicate directly with mobile computing device via radio frequency transmissions.

Mobile computing device may be a smart phone handheld Global Positioning System GPS tablet computer or personal digital assistant PDA . In general mobile computing device may be any electronic device or computing system capable of receiving positioning signals from one or more satellites sending and receiving data and communicating with server computer over network . Mobile computing device contains user interface location receiver identification tag reader and audio positioning system .

Audio positioning system may in one embodiment provide standard GPS functionality. For example the user may use audio positioning system to locate and travel to a department store. Audio positioning system periodically requests a location of mobile computing device from location receiver as a route is traveled and a destination is reached. A route as determined by audio positioning system includes a series of coordinates from the initial location of mobile computing device to the final destination and directions for the user to follow as the user travels from the initial location to the destination such as directions for roads to follow turns to make etc.

In one embodiment after a user arrives at his or her destination the user may instruct audio positioning system via user interface to determine the positions of objects at the destination such as the restroom food court etc. Audio positioning system may access mapping database over network . Mapping database may contain in one embodiment information about accessibility friendly businesses. For example mapping database may contain blueprints for various locations such as building designs store layouts points of interest identification tags certain buildings provide path data to the visually impaired via identification tags a layout may provide the information to where such paths may be intercepted picked up and socially tagged information from other parties who have visited the location. In one embodiment subsequent to accessing a document describing the layout of the area as mobile computing device encounters various objects in the area mobile computing device may identify the object via embedded identification tags and update the layout with the identity of the object and location based on current coordinate location of mobile computing device of the object.

In one embodiment the user selects a specific object or location from a list of identified objects or locations. In one embodiment audio positioning system reads the list to the user out loud. In another embodiment audio positioning system communicates the list to the user through a succession of tones with each tone representing a type of object. Tones may also be used indicate distance and direction of a selected object. Audio tones used for any of the aforementioned features may be customizable. Examples are described further in the discussion of .

The following is an exemplary scenario of use of audio positioning system . A user is located in a store and uses audio positioning system to select the restroom as the desired location. Audio positioning system accesses mapping database and determines the location of the nearest restroom in the store. Audio positioning system determines a route from the current location of the user to the destination. Audio positioning system facilitates navigation from the user s current location to the desired object through audio tones to guide the user to the object.

User interface UI executes on mobile computing device . UI operates to visualize content such as menus and icons and to allow a user to interact with an application accessible to mobile computing device . In one embodiment a visually impaired user interacts with UI by using screen reading software such as Mobile Speak software voice control software such as Nuance Voice Control a combination of screen reading and voice control software or any other application that facilitates the use of mobile computing devices by users who are visually impaired. In one embodiment UI provides an interface to audio positioning system . For example UI may provide data received from audio positioning system to the user.

In one embodiment location receiver receives positioning signals from one or more satellites . In one embodiment an Application Programming Interface API not shown is provided for applications to call to receive the location of a location receiver. In one embodiment location receiver determines its location via a GPS system. In another embodiment location receiver determines its location via a cellular tower system or any other approach for example including trilateration or triangulation may be used. A location receiver can determine its location and present that location as longitude and latitude coordinates. In one embodiment based on the initial location of mobile computing device individual user preferences and a cartographic database not shown navigation program determines a route to a destination inputted by a user for example at UI .

Identification tag reader includes components configured to scan the environment for nearby identification tags. In one embodiment identification tag reader is configured to emit a carrier wave to include an RFID signal or to emit such a RFID signal bearing carrier wave at a predetermined user adjustable interval. For example identification tag reader can be configured to begin emitting an RFID signal when audio positioning system is engaged and will continue to emit an RFID signal until audio positioning system is disengaged. Therefore one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention do not require the user to press a button or otherwise manually activate a control each time he or she wishes to interrogate his or her environment for identification tags. In another embodiment identification tag reader is configured to receive carrier waves including RFID signals emitted by or reflected from active and passive semi passive environmental RFID tags respectively. In another embodiment identification tags are located using Bluetooth. In yet another embodiment identification tags are located using near field communication.

In one embodiment a decoder not shown is operatively coupled with identification tag reader either by a wire or in another embodiment wirelessly. Identification tag reader conveys an electrical signal to the decoder including data obtained from a carrier wave that was received by identification tag reader . When wirelessly coupled each identification tag reader and the decoder include a complementary one of a wireless signal transmitting means e.g. transmitter tag etc. or a wireless signal receiving means e.g. antennae to exchange a wireless signal between identification tag reader and the decoder. The decoder interprets the data and derives information pertinent to object that the identification tag is embedded in.

Server computer may be a management server web server or any other electronic device or computing system capable of receiving and sending data. In other embodiments server computer may represent a server computing system utilizing multiple computers as a server system such as in a cloud computing environment. Server computer contains mapping database .

Mapping database is a database that may be written and read by audio positioning system . For example mapping database may be a database such as an IBM DB2 database or an Oracle database. Though in another embodiment mapping database may be located on another system or another computing device provided that the source database is accessible to audio positioning system .

In step audio positioning system determines the area in which mobile computing device is located. In one embodiment audio positioning system accesses location receiver which receives positioning signals from one or more satellites . Audio positioning system determines the geographic coordinates of mobile computing device and locates the geographic coordinates on a digital map. Audio positioning system identifies a bounded area in which the coordinates are located on the digital map. The bounded area is the surrounding area that is associated with a geographic coordinate and may include a building a collection of buildings an outdoor area e.g. an amusement park etc. For example audio positioning system determines that the geographic coordinates of mobile computing device are geographic coordinates within a public park as described by the digital map. In another embodiment the bounded area is determined by examining a radius around the geographic coordinates of mobile computing device and identifying an area within the radius. In yet another embodiment audio positioning system may identify an address nearest or corresponding to the coordinates and determine that the property represented by the address is the bounded area. Audio positioning system may update the bounded area as the coordinates of mobile computing device change. For example as a user travels with mobile computing device audio positioning system periodically accesses location receiver which receives updated positioning signals from one or more satellites . Audio positioning system determines the new geographic coordinates of mobile computing device and determines a new bounded area.

In a simplified embodiment of the present invention various destinations e.g. certain smart buildings may have one or more identification tags installed around their property that identify the property e.g. by address name etc. . For example a business may have an installed identification tag at an entrance that can provide the business name and address. In such an embodiment audio positioning system determines the area in which mobile computing device is located e.g. a specific building by reading the installed identification tag.

In step audio positioning system determines the locations of objects within the bounded area. In one embodiment once the area in which mobile computing device has been determined identified audio positioning system accesses mapping database via network . Audio positioning program identifies the area to the mapping database by providing one or more of an address a business name a location name e.g. Hyde Park and one or more sets of coordinates. Based on the identified area mapping database may produce a corresponding map or document including a layout of objects located within the bounded area.

In another embodiment identification tag reader scans identification tags that are embedded in nearby objects within the bounded area. Audio positioning system accesses identification tag reader and compares the identities and locations of objects scanned by identification tag reader to the identities and locations of objects described by the layout sent by mapping database . If audio positioning system determines that an identity or location of an object identified by identification tag reader differs from an identity or location of an object described by the layout sent by mapping database audio positioning system updates the layout. In one embodiment audio positioning system adds an identified object to the copy of the layout residing on mobile computing device for future use. In another embodiment audio positioning system may send the new information to mapping database so that future requests for the layout by any device retrieve the most up to date information. This has the advantage that as more systems use and access mapping database the accuracy of mapping database continues to grow. In a similar vein if mapping database does not have any records corresponding to a sent area and audio positioning system locates identification tag embedded objects audio positioning system may create a layout based on the information it is able to retrieve and update the mapping database with the layout.

In step audio positioning system determines the locations of objects in relation to the mobile computing device. Based on the user s determined coordinates audio positioning system can identify a location of the user within the layout. Distances and routes to objects within the layout from the user s current location can then be calculated. In one embodiment audio positioning system determines location of mobile computing device by periodically accessing location receiver which receives updated positioning signals from one or more satellites . Audio positioning system then determines the location of each object by accessing mapping database or a local copy of a layout receive from mapping database . Audio positioning system determines the distances between mobile computing device and each object. In one embodiment audio positioning system determines the direction in which an object is located in relation to mobile computing device . For example audio positioning system determines that the restroom is east of mobile computing device . In another embodiment audio positioning system determines the distance between an object and mobile computing device as well as the direction in which the object is located in relation to mobile computing device . For example audio positioning system determines that the restroom is located 20 meters east of mobile computing device .

In step audio positioning system provides audio tones to indicate the locations of objects in relation to the user. In one embodiment the user sets up a configuration mapping priority of tones to receive depending on the identity of the objects available. For example one specific tone is associated with information desks and a different tone is associated with water fountains. The user selects each tone to represent a specific object and prioritizes each object. For example the user configures audio positioning program to provide a tone indicated the presence of an information desk first water fountain second etc. In another embodiment the user uses tones that have been preselected by audio positioning program . For example each tone represents a specific object and has been automatically selected by audio positioning program .

In one embodiment the user programs audio positioning system to provide tones in a specific order upon arriving at the location of each object. Audio positioning system provides tones based on the priority of the tones selected by the user when he or she configured the tones. In one embodiment delays are built in between providing tones to the user in order to avoid sensory overload. For example when the user enters a restroom audio positioning system provides different tones in succession to identify and locate objects such as sinks restroom stalls receptacles etc. in the order that the user selected when he or she configured the tones.

In another embodiment the user programs audio positioning system to provide tones only as the user encounters each object. For example audio positioning system provides a specific tone or tones as sinks and restroom stalls are each encountered indicating their close proximity to the user.

In one embodiment the user preselects only specific objects to be located by audio positioning system . For example the user programs audio positioning system to locate only the information desk and water fountains. Audio positioning system only provides tones in succession that are specific to the information desk and water fountains to indicate the presence of each type of object within a museum as the user enters the museum.

In one embodiment audio positioning system provides tones to indicate the direction in which an object is located in relation to mobile computing device . For example audio positioning system provides tones to indicate that the restroom is to the left of mobile computing device . In yet another embodiment audio positioning system provides tones to indicate the distance between an object and mobile computing device as well as the direction in which the object is located in relation to mobile computing device . For example audio positioning system provides tones to indicate that the restroom is located 20 meters to the left of mobile computing device .

Audio positioning system accesses mapping database not shown over the network to determine the locations of objects within park . Based on the user s preselected settings audio positioning system provides audio tones to indicate the presence of nearby objects. The audio tones indicate the presence of restroom and refreshment station . User selects refreshment station as a destination. Audio positioning system determines the direction and distance to refreshment station in relation to mobile computing device . Audio positioning system provides audio tones to direct user to refreshment station .

In one embodiment one specific tone indicates the direction in which refreshment station is located and a different tone to indicate the distance between mobile computing device and refreshment station . For example audio positioning system provides periodic tones to assure user that he or she is traveling in the correct direction and is approaching refreshment station . For example when user travels in a direction that is not toward refreshment station audio positioning system provides different tones to indicate that user is traveling in the wrong direction and is now further from refreshment station . In yet another embodiment audio positioning system provides warning tones if user approaches an object to prevent user from colliding with an object. For example if user approaches information desk which has not been identified as the desired object by user audio positioning system provides distinct tones to warn user that he or she is approaching the wrong object. Audio positioning system may also provide tones to identify the object that user is approaching. Audio positioning system provides additional tones to direct user back onto the correct path toward refreshment station . Path is the path audio positioning system directs user to travel in order to reach refreshment station .

Information desk is an object that is not recognized by audio positioning system . Information desk is a new addition to park and is not included in the information stored by mapping database . As user travels past information desk mobile computing device which contains identification tag reader not shown reads the identification tag not shown that has been intelligently embedded in information desk . In one embodiment audio positioning system accesses the information read by identification tag reader and sends the information pertaining to information desk to mapping database to be stored for future use. For example audio positioning system determines the location of information desk and the type of object that information desk is and sends the information to mapping database . Based on user s preselected settings audio positioning system provides audio tones indicating the presence of information desk . In one embodiment user selects information desk as a new destination and audio positioning system provides tones to direct user to information desk .

Mobile computing device and server computer each include communications fabric which provides communications between computer processor s memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In this embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media.

User interface location receiver identification tag reader and audio positioning service are stored in persistent storage of mobile computing device for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of user interface location receiver identification tag reader and audio positioning service via one or more memories of memory of mobile computing device . Mapping database is stored in persistent storage of server computer for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors of server computer via one or more memories of memory of server computer . In this embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other servers or devices. In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. Audio positioning service may be downloaded to persistent storage of mobile computing device respectively through the respective communications unit of audio positioning service . Mapping database may be downloaded to persistent storage of server computer through communications unit of server computer .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to mobile computing device or server computer . For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. audio positioning service can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of mobile computing device respectively via the respective I O interface s of mobile computing device . Software and data used to practice embodiments of the present invention e.g. mapping database can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage of server computer via I O interface s of server computer . I O interface s also connect to a display .

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

