---

title: Social network interaction using validated representations of user credentials
abstract: A representation for a credential is received by a first client device. The credential is rendered on a second client device where the credential is associated with a user identity within a social networking platform. The first client device validates the representation for the credential associated with the user identity a score associated with the user identity where the score is based on data associated with a plurality of other user identifies who are members of the user identity's social network within the social networking platform. The data associated with the plurality of other user identities is based on interaction with the electronic social networking platform by the plurality of other user identities within the electronic social networking platform. The accessed score is outputted for display based on the representation for the credential associated with the user identity being validated and the score associated with the user identity being accessed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09027105&OS=09027105&RS=09027105
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09027105
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130711
---
An electronic social networking platform may store data about or otherwise related to social characteristics of users of the electronic social networking platform.

In general in one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification a representation for a credential is received by a first client device. The credential is rendered on a second client device where the credential is associated with a user identity within a social networking platform. The first client device validates the representation for the credential associated with the user identity a score associated with the user identity where the score is based on data associated with a plurality of other user identifies who are members of the user identity s social network within the social networking platform. The data associated with the plurality of other user identities is based on interaction with the electronic social networking platform by the plurality of other user identities within the electronic social networking platform. The accessed score is outputted for display in response to the representation for the credential associated with the user identity being validated and the score associated with the user identity being accessed.

Implementations can include one or more of the following features. For example the accessed score may be determined to meet a predefined criterion and a request to add the user identity associated with the credential to a social network within the social networking platform of a validating user identity may be generated in response to the determination that the accessed score meets the predefined criterion where the validating user identity being associated with a user of the first client device. The accessed score may be determined to not meet a predefined criterion and validation of the credential may be denied in response to the determination that the accessed score does not meet the predefined criterion.

The accessed score may include a popularity score reflecting a measure of popularity of other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network within the social networking platform. The accessed score may include an influence score reflecting a measure of influence of other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network within the social networking platform. The accessed score may include a happiness score reflecting a measure of happiness of other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network within the social networking platform. The accessed score may include an affluence score reflecting a measure of affluence of other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network within the social networking platform.

If user of the first client device is associated with a validating user identity within the social networking platform information identifying common friends between the validating user identity and the user identity associated with the credential may be accessed from within the social networking platform. If a user of the first client device is associated with a validating user identity within the social networking platform information related to degrees of separation between the validating user identity and the user identity associated with the credential may be accessed from within the social networking platform. The representation for a credential from the second client device may include a Quick Response code displayed on the second client device.

The accessed and outputted score may be a plurality of scores associated with the user identity where the plurality of scores are based on data associated with a plurality of other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network within the social networking platform and the data associated with the plurality of other user identities is based on interaction with the electronic social networking platform by the plurality of other user identities within the electronic social networking platform. The accessed and outputted score may include a histogram representation of the score.

Other features may include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs encoded on computer storage devices configured to perform the foregoing actions.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

A mobile device based credential for a user of an electronic social networking platform may present information to others about the social proximity of the user to other users possessing one or more desired characteristics e.g. other users who are active communicative popular influential happy and or affluent electronic social networking platform users . Data stored about users by the social networking platform enables quantification of various different social characteristics of the users such as the users activity levels communication levels popularity influence happiness income and or affluence. The social proximity of an individual user to other users having one or more target social characteristics e.g. active communicative popular influential happy and or wealthy users may be determined by quantifying the target characteristics of other users to whom the individual user is connected within the electronic social networking platform.

Credentials can be maintained on and or accessed from client devices e.g. mobile computing devices like smart phones and tablet computers and credentials can be represented in various forms. A server or collection of servers can manage and distribute credentials to appropriate users client devices.

In some instances representations of credentials for groups of users or for individuals are generated. The credentials can be for example a social credential related to user identities within one or more social networking platforms e.g. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Google MySpace Orkut and others .

Examples of different representations for credentials and mechanisms for validating the different representations will now be described. In certain implementations credentials can be represented by among other representations alphanumeric codes optical machine readable representations sound signals and or near field communication NFC signals.

A first form of representation for a credential is an alphanumeric code. As referred to herein an alphanumeric code may be a sequence of numbers and or letters e.g. 4 to 24 characters that is associated with a credential and a user. In some instances a given alphanumeric code may be time varying e.g. will only be valid for a certain time period . To initialize an alphanumeric code a server associates a given alphanumeric code with a credential and distributes the alphanumeric code to the appropriate client device or devices.

To validate an alphanumeric code a user or third party presents the alphanumeric code to a validating device e.g. a client device operated by a user or a processing system operated by a validating entity . The validating device may validate an alphanumeric code for a credential locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the representation for the credential provided by the third party may be associated with a certificate associated with the third party e.g. a public key infrastructure PKI certificate which may be stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the alphanumeric code with information from the certificate to determine that the alphanumeric code is valid.

Alternatively or in addition the validating device may validate the alphanumeric code by transmitting a validation request message which includes the alphanumeric code to the server. When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented representation of the credential is valid. For example the server may parse the alphanumeric code to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric code with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the representation for the credential was valid e.g. the presented alphanumeric code matches a valid alphanumeric code for the credential . In turn the validating device may then provide an indication that the representation presented by the user or the third party was valid.

Another form for a credential is an optical machine readable representation. As referred to herein an optical machine readable representation of a credential may be an arrangement of graphical elements that encode alphanumeric data representing the credential where the elements are arranged so that the data can be read by an optical scanner. For example an optical machine readable representation of a credential may be a bar code a QR code or an Aztec code among other optical machine readable representations. In some instances a given optical machine readable representation of a credential only may be valid for a certain time period. In some implementations optical machine readable representations of credentials may encode data including or representing credential identifiers and any other suitable data. In other implementations optical machine readable representations of credentials may encode other identifiers that are linked to or otherwise associated with credential identifiers.

To generate an optical machine readable representation a client device may use any suitable technique for encoding alphanumeric data within the optical machine readable representation. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes QR codes in accordance with the QR code International Organization for Standardization ISO standard ISO IEC 18004 2006 RSS Information technology Automatic identification and data capture techniques QR Code 2005 bar code symbology specification.

To initiate the validation process for an optical machine readable representation a client device may output an optical machine readable representation to a display of the client device. A validating device can scan the portion of the client device s display showing the representation of the credential and decode the representation of the credential to generate a set of alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the representation of the credential. In particular the validating device may output a reticle defining a field of view from a camera operatively coupled to the validating device. This reticle can be used to scan the optical machine readable representation of the credential from the relevant portion of the client device s display.

The validating device may use any suitable mechanism to scan and decode the optical machine readable representation of the credential. For example the validating device may access a function or library routine that captures and decodes QR codes and or barcodes using a camera operatively coupled to the validating device. Suitable libraries may include for example Red Laser or Zxing.

In some implementations a validating device may validate a set of alphanumeric characters from an optical machine readable representation locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the optical machine readable representation for the credential may include a certificate associated with the client device of the user or third party presenting the optical machine readable representation for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the optical machine readable representation with information from the certificate to determine that the optical machine readable representation is valid.

Alternatively or in addition the validating device may then validate the optical machine readable representation of the credential by transmitting a validation request message to a server. The validation request message may include data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the optical machine readable representation of the credential. When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented representation of the credential is valid. For example the server may parse and or decode the alphanumeric characters to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric characters with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the representation for the credential was valid e.g. the alphanumeric characters in the request match a valid sequence of alphanumeric characters for the credential . In turn the validating device may then provide an indication that the representation presented by the user or the third party was valid.

Yet another form of representation for a credential is a sound signal. As described herein a sound signal is an oscillation of pressure waves transmitted through the air that are modulated to encode information. Any suitable modulation scheme could be used such as for example frequency shift keying FSK or phase shift keying PSK . In some implementations the sound signal may be in the ultrasonic frequency range e.g. greater than about 20 kHz. In some implementations the sound signal may be in the audible frequency range e.g. about 20 Hz to about 20 kHz.

A sound signal representing a credential may encode data including or representing a corresponding credential identifier and any other suitable data. In addition a sound signal representing a credential may encode another identifier that is linked to or otherwise associated with a corresponding credential identifier. In some implementations a given sound signal representing a credential may only be valid for a certain time period. For example part of the data encoded in the signal may correspond to a time stamp and the credential represented by the signal may be deemed invalid if a validating device attempts to decode the data more than a predetermined amount of time after the time stamp was generated.

To generate a sound signal a client device may use any suitable technique for encoding a representation of a credential. For example the client device may call a function or library routine that encodes data into sound signals such as the Zoosh software development kit SDK by Naratte Inc. The client device can then output the sound signal representation of the credential from a speaker coupled to the client device for reception by a validating device.

To initiate the validation process for a sound signal a client device outputs a sound signal representing a credential. A validating device may then receive the sound signal at a speaker of the validating device and decode the sound signal representation of the credential to generate a set of alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the sound signal. The validating device may use any suitable mechanism to receive and decode the sound signal.

In some implementations a validating device may validate a set of alphanumeric characters from a sound signal locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the sound signal may include a certificate associated with the client device of the user presenting the sound signal for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the sound signal with information from the certificate to determine that the sound signal is valid.

Alternatively or in addition the validating device may then validate the sound signal by transmitting a validation request message to a server. The validation request message may include data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the sound signal. When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented sound signal is valid. For example the server may parse and or decode the alphanumeric characters to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric characters with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the sound signal was valid e.g. the alphanumeric characters in the request match a valid sequence of alphanumeric characters for the credential . In turn the validating device may then provide an indication that the representation presented by the user or the third party was valid.

Still another form of representation for a credential is an NFC signal. NFC as described herein may refer to a set of standards e.g. ECMA 340 and ISO IEC 18092 for client devices to establish radio communication with each other by touching them together or bringing them into close proximity e.g. typically no more than a few centimeters . NFC as described herein may also include other suitable short range wireless communication protocols such as Bluetooth or Zigbee.

A client device may use any suitable technique for encoding a representation of a credential within an NFC signal such as a function or library routine. An NFC signal representing a credential may encode data including or representing a corresponding credential identifier and any other suitable data. In addition an NFC signal representing a credential may encode another identifier that is linked to or otherwise associated with a corresponding credential identifier. In some implementations a given NFC signal representing a credential may only be valid for a certain time period. For example part of the data encoded in the signal may correspond to a time stamp and the credential represented by the signal may be deemed invalid if a validating device attempts to decode the data more than a predetermined amount of time after the time stamp was generated.

To initiate the validation process for an NFC signal a client device transmits an NFC signal representing a credential. A validating device may then receive the signal at a receiver of the validating device and decode the NFC signal representing the credential to generate the set of alphanumeric characters encoded in the signal.

In some implementations a validating device may validate a set of alphanumeric characters from an NFC signal locally without requiring interaction with a server. For example the NFC signal may include a certificate associated with the client device of the user presenting the NFC signal for validation. Alternatively or in addition the representation for the credential may be associated with a certificate that is already stored locally at the validating device. The validating device may then compare information decoded from the NFC signal with information from the certificate to determine that the NFC signal is valid.

Alternatively or in addition the validating device may then validate the NFC signal by transmitting a validation request message to a server. The validation request message may include data corresponding to the alphanumeric characters that were encoded in the NFC signal. When the server receives the validation request message it attempts to confirm that the presented NFC signal is valid. For example the server may parse and or decode the alphanumeric characters to obtain a credential identifier. The server can then access the corresponding credential using the credential identifier e.g. from a database by querying using the credential identifier . Upon retrieving the credential the server can determine whether the presented representation for the credential was valid by comparing data received in the validation request message e.g. the alphanumeric characters with data associated with the retrieved credential.

Upon successful validation the server sends the validating device a validation response indicating that the NFC signal was valid e.g. the alphanumeric characters in the request match a valid sequence of alphanumeric characters for the credential . In turn the validating device may then provide an indication that the representation presented by the user or the third party was valid.

An exemplary process for applying the above described credential validation techniques to a credential management application is described below in reference to .

Although not illustrated in as described in greater detail below in response to validating the second user s social credential the first user s client device displays the one or more scores to the first user . In some implementations the first user s client device also may display a request to connect with the second user by adding the second user s user identity to the first user s social network within the electronic social networking platform. For ease of reference such a connection between two user identities within an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as a friend connection. 

A hypothetical interaction between two users Mary a validator and Joe a validatee will be used to describe an exemplary credential management application. Both the validator Mary and the validatee Joe may be members of at least one electronic social networking platform and each may have their own user identity within the at least one electronic social networking platform. Although the process is described with respect to the hypothetical users Mary and Joe the process may be performed similarly for any users e.g. a pair of validator and validatee users of a credential management application.

For instance Mary meets Joe at a business conference and would like to add Joe as a friend in one of her social networks but first wants to verify one or more of Joe s social characteristics. Social characteristics may include scores associated with Joe s user identity within the electronic social networking platform friend connections that Joe and Mary share within the electronic social networking platform a social proximity score between Joe and Mary within the electronic social networking platform and or social proximity to other users e.g. other users within Joe s social network with desired characteristics or scores for example. Mary then may ask Joe for his social credential . In response Joe may access a credential management application on his client device which may generate a representation of a social credential as displayed in diagram for example. The social credential may be an optical machine readable code such as the QR code shown a sound signal an NFC code or an alphanumeric code for example that is associated with Joe s user identity in one or more electronic social networking platforms.

Mary may activate a corresponding credential management application on her client device to receive e.g. by scanning the QR code and validate Joe s social credential . Validating the social credential may include decoding data encoded in the social credential comparing a certificate associated with the social credential with data stored by the credential management application on Mary s client device or sending a validation request to a server including data that were encoded in the social credential as described above .

Successful validation of Joe s social credential may allow Mary s client device to access one or more social characteristics associated with Joe s user identity in an electronic social networking platform. The one or more social characteristics may include one or more scores calculated based on data associated with a plurality of other user identities who are members of Joe s social network within the electronic social networking platform. The data associated with the plurality of other user identities may be based on interactions by the other user identities with the electronic social networking platform such as engagement with the electronic social networking platform by the plurality of other user identities or a characteristic of the plurality of other user identities within the electronic social networking platform. Furthermore as described below in reference to engagement with the electronic social networking platform may include writing responding to status posts performing check ins and or posting photos for example. Additionally as described below in reference to a characteristic of another user identity may be information posted in the other user identity s profile for example.

Alternatively or in addition successful validation of Joe s social credential may allow Mary s client device to access social characteristics related to Joe s user identity such as information related to similarities between Mary s and Joe s social networks within the electronic social networking platform. For example the information may relate to friends that Mary and Joe have in common within the electronic social networking platform. In other words user identities within the social networking platform that are members of both Mary s and Joe s social networks within the electronic social networking platform. The information related to similarities between Mary s and Joe s social network may be for example information related to the social proximity between Mary and Joe within the electronic social networking platform. For example social proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of the number of degrees of separation i.e. the number of other intermediate interconnected user identities required to form a connection between the two user identities within the electronic social networking platform.

Upon successfully validating Joe s social credential the credential management application on Mary s client device may display a screen similar to screen showing Joe s electronic social networking platform user identity. Screen may simply display a photograph from a user profile associated with Joe s user identity or it may also include additional data from Joe s user profile. A user selectable control may be selected to display one or more social characteristics associated with Joe.

In some implementations the credential management application may generate a request to add Joe s electronic social network user identity to Mary s social network within the electronic social networking platform i.e. a friend request after successfully validating Joe s social credential . In some implementations the request may only be generated if one or more of scores described in greater detail below associated with Joe s user identity meets one or more predefined criteria. For example a predefined criterion may be a threshold value previously set by Mary for a particular social characteristic. For instance Mary may be an estate planner for high net worth individuals seeking referrals to potential clients therefore she may set a threshold for establishing friend connections with user identities having a Friends affluence score at or above some threshold value. Alternatively or in addition Mary may not be a highly communicative electronic social network user and may prefer to receive a moderate number of electronic social networking communications therefore she may set a threshold for establishing friend connections with user identities having a Friends communicativity score at or below some threshold value.

Alternatively or in addition the predefined criteria may be a specified number of mutual friends within Mary s and Joe s social networks in the electronic social networking platform. The criteria also may be a minimum number of degrees of separation between Mary s and Joe s user identities within the electronic social networking platform or a condition that Mary and Joe have one or more specific mutual friends within the electronic social networking platform for example. Mary may then use the credential management application to determine Joe has the potential to become a valuable business networking contact. For instance Mary may be an entrepreneur seeking a meeting with an executive at a company that may be a potentially high value client for Mary s business. She may then set a predefined criterion to alert her if Joe an owner of a business within the executive s industry is friends with the executive within the electronic social networking platform.

Some implementations of the credential management application may be capable of validating a social credential that is associated with user identities in multiple electronic social networking platforms. In some implementations validation by the credential management application may include determining if Mary the validator has a user identity within the same electronic social networking platform as that in which Joe s the validatee s user identity as indicated by Joe s social credential is associated. If it is determined that Mary and Joe do not both have user identities within the same electronic social networking platform the credential management application may deny validation of Joe s social credential. For example Joe may have a user identity within Facebook but Mary only has a user identity within LinkedIn. Similarly when Joe s the validatee s social credential is associated with a user identity in more than one electronic social networking platform validation by the credential management application may include identifying within which of the more than one electronic social networking platforms Mary the validator also has a user identity. For example Joe may have user identities within Facebook LinkedIn and Twitter and Mary has a user identity within LinkedIn. In the case where Mary and Joe each have user identities in the same two or more electronic social networking platforms the credential management application may request that Mary the validator select one of the two or more electronic social networking platforms for which to validate Joe s the validatee s social credential. For example Joe may have user identities within Facebook LinkedIn and Twitter and Mary may have user identities within Facebook LinkedIn and Google .

In addition GUI may include the number of friends that validator and validatee Mary and Joe have in common within their respective social networks in the electronic social networking platform and or the number of degrees of separation between the two users user identities within the electronic social networking platform. In addition to displaying the number of degrees of separation between the two users user identities one or more paths may be displayed that connect the two user identities with the fewest degrees of separation within the electronic social networking platform. In some implementations GUI may include a request to add Joe to Mary s social network within the electronic social networking platform. In some implementations the request is only generated and displayed if one or more of the validatee s scores meet predefined criteria. In some implementations data from a user profile associated with the validatee s electronic social networking platform user identity also may be displayed e.g. the user identity s age relationship status education history etc. . is an example GUI which may be displayed if one or more of Joe s scores do not meet a predefined criteria and as a result Joe s credential is not validated.

In some implementations a more detailed view of the scores such as a histogram as illustrated in may be displayed for any of the scores by for example by selecting one of the scores listed on GUI . As illustrated in GUI includes an Affluence Distribution panel that presents a histogram reflecting the distribution of the affluence scores of the user identities from Joe s social network within the electronic social networking platform for whom the application was able to calculate affluence scores.

In addition GUI includes an Influence Distribution panel that presents a histogram reflecting the distribution of the influence scores of the user identities from Joe s social network within the electronic social networking platform for whom the application was able to calculate influence scores.

Finally GUI includes a Popularity Distribution panel that presents a histogram reflecting the distribution of the popularity scores of the user identities from Joe s social network within the electronic social networking platform for whom the application was able to calculate popularity scores. Although depicts exemplary histogram representations for Affluence Influence and Popularity scores a more detailed representation of the data related to any score may be displayed. Furthermore representations of score data other than histograms may be displayed.

In order to calculate the scores described above an application may extract data from an electronic social networking platform on behalf of users of the application who also are represented by user identities within the electronic social networking platform. The data may be extracted by a credential management application or it may be extracted by another application e.g. a social intelligence application from which the credential management application subsequently accesses the data. The scores also may be calculated by the other application e.g. a social intelligence application in which case a credential management application need only access the scores from the other application e.g. a social intelligence application .

This data extracted from the electronic social networking platform may include data about or otherwise related to the users of the application. In addition this data extracted from the electronic social networking platform may include data about or otherwise related to user identities within the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of users of the application. After extracting this data from the electronic social networking platform the application may process the extracted data to enable analysis of the extracted data for example to glean intelligence about the users of the application and or user identities within the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of the users of the application .

Techniques are described herein for extracting analyzing and or acting upon data from an electronic social networking platform. These techniques are widely applicable and may be employed in connection with any of the above electronic social networking platforms or any other electronic social networking platforms.

Electronic social networking platforms often enable an individual user identity to create a user profile that reflects various different types of information about or otherwise related to the user identity. Such a profile for a particular user identity may be helpful to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are interested in learning more about the particular user identity. Similarly the profile for the particular user identity may be helpful to the user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are interested in confirming that the particular user identity represents a particular human user within the electronic social networking platform.

For example an electronic social networking platform may maintain a user profile for a user identity that reflects the user identity s name gender age relationship status education history e.g. schools attended and or degrees awarded employment history e.g. employers and or positions held contact information e.g. e mail address es telephone number s other electronic addresses physical addresses etc. current residence information e.g. city state territory and or country hometown information e.g. city state territory and or country primary language and or sexual orientation.

Additionally or alternatively the user identity s profile also may reflect various different interests of the user identity and or indications of various different locations that the user identity or another user identity such as for example a member of the user identity s social network has registered with the electronic social networking platform as locations that the user identity has visited. Such locations may include a wide variety of different types of locations including for example geographic locations such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues businesses or other places such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. For ease of reference indications of locations registered with an electronic social networking platform as locations that a user identity has visited may be referred to herein as check ins and information stored in a user identity s profile that reflects such indications of locations registered with the electronic social networking platform as locations that the user identity has visited may be referred to herein as check in information. 

Electronic social networking platforms also typically enable an individual user identity e.g. representing a human user who has registered with the electronic social networking platform and or a human user who has been assigned a unique or otherwise identifying identifier by the electronic social networking platform to establish connections with other user identities. These connections between user identities may reflect relationships between the underlying human users of the electronic social networking platform who are represented by the user identities. For example a connection between two user identities within an electronic social networking platform may reflect a social friendship e.g. developed through physical interaction in the real world and or through on line interaction in the cyber world or a professional relationship between the underlying human users represented by the user identities.

In some electronic social networking platforms user identities may be able to form connections with other user identities unilaterally. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a first user identity to form a connection to a second user identity simply by requesting to form a connection to the second user identity without requiring authorization of the connection by the second user identity . Alternatively in other electronic social networking platforms the formation of connections between two user identities may involve bilateral participation by both user identities. For example in such electronic social networking platforms when a first user identity requests to form a connection to a second user identity the electronic social networking platform may establish the connection between the first and second user identities only after receiving authorization to form the connection from the second user identity.

A user identity s social network within an electronic social networking platform may be defined based on the connections between the user identity and other user identities of the electronic social networking platform. In some cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined as the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected. Alternatively in other cases the social network of a particular user identity of an electronic social networking platform may be defined to extend beyond the group of other user identities to whom the particular user identity is directly connected to include other user identities who are within a threshold level of proximity to the particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform. For example social proximity between two user identities of an electronic social networking platform may be measured in terms of the number of degrees of separation or the number of other intermediate interconnected user identities required to form a connection between the two user identities within the electronic social networking platform and the social network of a particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform may be defined to include a group of other user identities who are within a threshold social proximity of the particular user identity.

Commonly an electronic social networking platform may provide a particular user identity with certain increased functionality in connection with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform that the electronic social networking platform may not provide to the particular user identity in connection with user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. For example an electronic social networking platform may provide a particular user identity with one or more different mechanisms for electronically communicating or otherwise sharing content with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. Furthermore an electronic social networking platform may allow a particular user identity to access more detailed profile information about other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform than the electronic social networking platform allows the particular user identity to access about user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may enable a particular user identity to access check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform by members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform while not enabling the particular user identity to access check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform by user identities who are not members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform.

The connections between individual user identities within an electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. As new user identities join and other user identities stop using the electronic social networking platform and or as new connections between user identities are formed and old connections between user identities are dissolved this graph of interconnected user identities may change dynamically in time to represent the current state of connections between user identities within the electronic social networking platform.

For situations in which the systems discussed herein collect personal information about users the users may be provided with an opportunity to opt in out of programs or features that may collect personal information e.g. information about a user s preferences or a user s current location . In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized.

As further discussed above an electronic social networking platform may facilitate the sharing of information and the exchange of electronic communications between a particular user identity and other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. For example referring to the electronic social networking platform represented in the electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that facilitate the exchange of electronic communications between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes who are members of the social network of the user identity represented by node . In some implementations the electronic social networking platform may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send private electronic messages to any one or more of the user identities represented by nodes . Furthermore the electronic social networking platform also may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to publish an electronic message e.g. a status post that is broadcast to all or some defined subset of all of the user identities represented by nodes . Additionally or alternatively the electronic social networking platform may provide a mechanism that enables the user identity represented by node to send a directed electronic message to a user identity that is represented by a particular one of nodes . In such cases the recipient user identity of the directed message may define whether this directed message is shared publicly with other user identities of the electronic social networking platform.

In addition to enabling user identities to establish connections to other user identities an electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to establish connections with other types of objects. Among other examples such other types of objects may include interest objects location objects event objects and application objects.

Interest objects may represent a variety of different types of interests including for example local businesses or places e.g. restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. companies organizations or institutions brands or products artists bands or public figures media or other forms of entertainment e.g. books music albums movies etc. and causes or communities. As described in greater detail below in connection with interest objects may be manifested within an electronic social networking platform as so called pages that provide information about the interests that the interest objects represent. These pages may be maintained by one or more representatives of the interests that the interest objects represent.

An electronic social networking platform that supports interest objects may enable an individual user identity to record various different interests within the electronic social networking platform by registering endorsements of the interest objects that represent the user identity s interests with the electronic social networking platform. The electronic social networking platform may represent the individual user identity s endorsement of different interest objects within the electronic social networking platform as connections between the user identity and the interest objects that the user identity has endorsed. Furthermore the electronic social networking platform may provide various different mechanisms that enable the one or more representatives of a particular interest object to share electronic communications or otherwise interact with those user identities who have endorsed the particular interest object. For example the electronic social networking platform may enable the one or more representatives of the particular interest object to publish status posts including for example text images and or videos that are broadcast publicly to user identities who have endorsed the particular interest object.

Location objects may represent a variety of different types of locations including for example geographic locations such as cities states or countries as well as commercial venues businesses or other places such as restaurants retail stores parks train or bus stations airports etc. An electronic social networking platform that supports location objects may enable an individual user identity to form various different types of connections to different location objects. For example an electronic social networking platform may enable a user identity to record information about the user identity s hometown by establishing a hometown connection with a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Similarly an electronic social networking platform may enable a user identity to record information about the user identity s current place of residence by establishing a current city connection with a location object that represents the user identity s current place of residence. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may enable a user identity to register locations that the user identity has visited by establishing check in connections with location objects that represent locations that the user identity has visited.

In some cases an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually check in at a location. For example a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to manually define and or search for a location object that corresponds to a location that the user identity is visiting or has visited or plans to visit and create a connection to the location object that corresponds to the location in order to check in at the location. Additionally or alternatively an electronic social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location in a more intelligent or automated fashion. For instance a social networking platform may provide mechanisms that enable a user identity to check in at a location using a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone or tablet computer using global positioning system GPS map and or other location identifying data available to the mobile computing device.

Event objects may represent events hosted by user identities of an electronic social networking platform and or events hosted by representatives of interest objects. Furthermore event objects may include mechanisms that enable the hosts of the events represented by the event objects to invite user identities to the events. In some electronic social networking platforms event objects may be manifested within the electronic social networking platforms as event pages that provide information about the events the event objects represent e.g. date time and location information for the events and the electronic social networking platforms may enable one or more designated representatives associated with the event e.g. the hosts to share information and exchange electronic communications with user identities who have been invited to the event via the event page. 

An electronic social networking platform that supports event objects may establish a connection between an event object and the user identity or interest object responsible for hosting the event represented by the event object. In addition the electronic social networking platform also may establish a connection between an event object and user identities who have been invited to the event represented by the event object and or user identities who register with the electronic social networking platform that they will be attending the event represented by the event object.

As described in greater detail below electronic social networking platforms may enable independent applications to leverage the electronic social networking platforms for example to provide more compelling user experiences for the users of the independent applications by accessing and or extracting data from the electronic social networking platforms generally on behalf of user identities who have granted the independent applications authorization to access and or extract data from the electronic social networking platforms on their behalf. Application objects in an electronic social networking platform thus may represent different applications that leverage the electronic social networking platform.

A wide variety of different types of applications may leverage electronic social networking platforms. Among other examples gaming applications are one common example of applications that leverage electronic social networking platforms. Such gaming applications may allow user identities to engage in interactive or multiplayer games that involve other user identities of the electronic social networking platforms that they leverage. Other examples of types of applications that may leverage electronic social networking platforms include social electronic marketplace applications social event management applications content delivery and sharing applications collaboration applications and social recommendation applications.

An electronic social networking platform that supports application objects may establish connections between an individual application that leverages the electronic social networking platform and user identities who are users of the application represented by the application object and or who are users who have granted the application represented by the application object authorization to access or extract data from the electronic social networking platform on their behalf. Furthermore the electronic social networking platform may provide various different mechanisms that enable an application that leverages the social networking platform to share electronic communications or otherwise interact with those user identities for whom connections have been established with the application object that represents the application within the electronic social networking platform. For example the electronic social networking platform may enable an application that leverages the electronic social networking platform and or users of the application that leverages the electronic social networking platform to transmit communications within the electronic social networking platform to user identities for whom connections have been established with the application object that represents the application within the electronic social networking platform.

As illustrated in an edge that connects two nodes represents a connection between the two objects that are represented by the connected nodes . For example the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections between the user identity represented by node and the user identities represented by nodes . For ease of reference such a connection between two user identity objects in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as a friend connection. 

Similarly the edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the interest object represented by node . As discussed above a user of an electronic social networking platform may form a connection to such an interest object by endorsing the interest object. Therefore for ease of reference connections between a user identity object and an interest object in an electronic social networking platform may be referred to herein as an endorsement connection. 

Furthermore the edges that connect node to nodes represent connections between the user identity represented by node and the location objects represented by nodes . Depending on the electronic social networking platform a user identity may be able to establish various different types of connections to location objects. For example in order to store a record of the user identity s hometown the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a hometown connection to a location object that represents the user identity s hometown. Additionally or alternatively in order to store a record of the user identity s current residence the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a current city or current residence connection to a location object that represents the user identity s current residence. Furthermore in order to store a record of a location the user identity visited the user identity may establish what may be referred to herein as a check in connection to a location object that represents a location that the user identity visited.

The edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the event represented by event object . For ease of reference such a connection between a user identity object and an event object may be referred to herein as an event connection. There may be various different types of event connections between user identities and event objects in an electronic social networking platform. For example one type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity is the host of the event. Another type of an event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity has been invited to the event. Still another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will be attending the event. Yet another type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity will not be attending the event. Still one more type of event connection between a user identity and an event object in an electronic social networking platform may signify that the user identity has registered with the electronic social networking platform that the user identity tentatively will be attending the event.

Finally the edge that connects node to node represents a connection between the user identity represented by node and the application represented by application object . For ease of reference such a connection between a user identity object and an application objected may be referred to here as an application connection. 

Electronic social networking platforms may provide various different types of user interfaces for interacting with the electronic social networking platforms. For example for each user of an electronic social networking platform the electronic social networking platform may provide a first GUI that generally presents a feed of content shared by or otherwise related to other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network as well as content shared by or otherwise related to other objects e.g. interest location event and or application objects to which the user identity is connected within the electronic social networking platform. In some electronic social networking platforms this feed may be referred to as the user identity s news feed. In addition the electronic social networking platform also may provide a second GUI for each user identity of the electronic social networking platform that presents a feed that generally records the activity of the user identity within the electronic social networking platform as well as content shared with the user identity directly by other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network and or by other objects to which the user identity is connected within the electronic social networking platform e.g. interest location event and or application objects . In some electronic social networking platforms this feed may be referred to as the user identity s wall or timeline. 

An electronic social networking platform may include a variety of different content in a user identity s news feed. For example among other types of content a particular user identity s news feed may include i electronic messages such as for example status posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that have been published generally by other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network ii electronic messages and other content such as for example images videos and or links that have been published publicly by other types of objects e.g. interest location event and application objects to which the particular user identity is connected within the electronic social networking platform iii electronic messages such as for example walls posts or timeline posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that have been shared directly with recipient user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and who have configured their privacy settings to share such directed electronic messages and other content with the particular user identity and or iv information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network such as for example check ins events hosted and or attended and application usage e.g. participation in a gaming application .

Similarly an electronic social networking platform may include a variety of different content in a user identity s wall or timeline. For example among other types of content a particular user identity s wall or timeline may include i electronic messages such as for example status posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that the particular user identity published generally to other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network ii electronic messages such as for example wall posts or timeline posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that the particular user identity shared directly with specific members of the particular user identity s social network iii electronic messages such as for example wall posts or timeline posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network shared directly with the particular user identity iv electronic messages such as for example wall posts or timeline posts and other content such as for example images videos and or links that applications to which the particular user identity is connected within the electronic social networking platform shared directly with the particular user identity and or v information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by the user identity such as for example check ins events hosted and or attended and application usage e.g. participation in a gaming application .

Referring first to GUI includes a news feed that includes different feed items . The items included within news feed include content and or electronic messages that have been shared with James by other user identities who are members of James social network as well as by other types of objects e.g. interest location event and application objects to which James is connected within the electronic social networking platform.

For example item includes an image and a corresponding message shared with James by a member of James social network identified as John. Similarly item includes a message e.g. a status post shared with James by a member of James social network identified as Jane and item includes a hyperlink to a web page and a corresponding message shared with James by a member of James social network identified as Joe. Although not illustrated in in addition to enabling user identities to share images and hyperlinks with members of their social networks e.g. as illustrated by items and respectively the electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to share other types of content with members of their social networks including for example videos. Items and may represent content and or messages that the particular user identities who shared these items i.e. John Jane and Joe respectively published generally to user identities who are members of their own social networks.

In addition to enabling user identities to publish electronic messages and other content generally to other user identities who are members of their social networks the electronic social networking platform also may enable user identities to send directed messages and other content to individual user identities who are members of their social networks. Such directed messages and other content may be presented within the walls or timelines of the user identities to whom they are targeted. Therefore these directed messages and other content may be referred to as wall posts or timeline posts. The electronic social networking platform may provide user identities with controls for configuring whether such directed messages and other content posted to their walls or timelines also are shared with members of their own social networks. In the event that a targeted user identity selects configuration settings that provide for directed messages and other content posted to the targeted user s wall or timeline to be shared with other members of the targeted user identity s social network such wall posts or timeline posts may be presented to the other members of the targeted user identity s social network in their news feeds. 

Item in the news feed of the GUI is an example of a wall post or timeline post that was directed to a targeted user identity who is a member of James social network and who selected configuration settings that provide for the wall post or timeline post to be shared with other members of the targeted user identity s own social network. More particularly message was posted to the wall or timeline of a member of James social network identified as John by another user identity identified as Jane. Because the user identity identified as John is a member of James social network and because the user identity identified as John selected configuration settings that provide for wall posts or timeline posts to be shared with other members of his social network the wall post or timeline post from the user identity identified as Jane is presented in James news feed . The user identity identified as Jane may or may not be a member of James own social network.

 News feed also includes information about activities engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform by other user identities who are members of James social network. For example item indicates that a user identity identified as Joe checked in at a location identified as World Caf . The location World Caf may be represented as a location object within the electronic social networking platform and may correspond to for example a local restaurant.

The items included within news feed also include content and or electronic messages that have been shared with James by other types of objects e.g. interest location event and application objects to which James is connected within the electronic social networking platform. For example item includes a message shared with James by an interest object manifested as a page within the electronic social networking platform that represents MicroStrategy Incorporated a software and technology company.

The items presented in news feed provide mechanisms that enable James to react to the content included within the items presented in news feed . For example as illustrated in each of the items presented in news feed includes a selectable Endorse control and a selectable Comment control .

A selectable Endorse control in an item enables James to register an endorsement of the content e.g. message image video link activity etc. included in the item . The electronic social networking platform records such endorsements and may present the number of endorsements registered in connection with the content presented in an item in connection with the presentation of the item itself. For example item includes an indication that six different user identities have registered endorsements of the picture and message included in item .

A selectable Comment control in an item enables the particular user identity to enter a responsive comment to the content included in the item . The electronic social networking platform records such responsive comments and associates them with the content included in the item so that the electronic social networking platform may present any such responsive comments in connection with the presentation of the item itself. For example item includes a message by a user identity identified as Joe that was entered in response to the message originally posted by the user identity identified as Jane.

In addition to news feed GUI also includes a selectable Post A Message control a selectable Share A Photo Video control and an associated text entry field and selectable Post control . Selectable Post A Message control enables James to compose and publish a status post by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Similarly selectable Share A Photo Video control enables James to share a picture or a video and to compose and publish a corresponding status post by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control .

Referring now to GUI includes a wall or timeline feed that includes different feed items . The items included within the wall or timeline feed include content and or electronic messages that the user identity identified as James shared with other members of his social network. Such content and or electronic messages may include status posts that James published generally to members of his social network responsive comments that James entered in response to content and or messages shared by other user identities who are members of James social network and wall or timeline posts that James posted to the walls or timelines of specific user identities who are members of his social network.

For example item includes a status post that James published generally to user identities who are members of his social network. Similarly item includes an image and a corresponding message that James published generally to user identities who are members of his social network. In the event that user identities who are members James social network enter responsive comments to and or endorse status posts that James published generally to user identities who are members of his social network any such responsive comments or endorsements also may be presented within wall or timeline feed . For example item includes an indication that two user identities have endorsed message . Similarly item includes a message that was entered by a user identity who is a member of James social network identified as Joe in response to the picture and corresponding message originally posted by James.

Meanwhile item includes a responsive comment that James posted in response to content and or a message shared by a user identity who is a member of James social network identified as John. Item also includes a wall post or timeline post that James posted on the wall or timeline of a specifically targeted user identity who is a member of James social network identified as Joe.

The items included in wall feed or timeline feed also include content and or messages that were posted directly on James wall or timeline by user identities who are members of James social network. For example item includes a message that was posted directly on James wall or timeline by a user identity who is a member James social network identified as Jane.

In addition the items in wall or timeline feed also include information about activities that James has engaged in within the context of the electronic social networking platform. For example item includes an indication that James has endorsed the MicroStrategy Incorporated interest object as well as four additional interest objects all of which as described in greater detail below in connection with may be manifested within the electronic social networking platform in the form of individual pages. Meanwhile item includes an indication that James has established a connection within the electronic social networking platform to the user identity identified as Jane.

Although not illustrated in a user identity s wall or timeline feed also may include content and or messages that were shared with the user identity as a consequence of the user identity s interaction with an application that leverages the electronic social networking platform. For example in some cases an application that leverages the electronic social networking application may post messages to the user identity s wall or timeline. Additionally or alternatively another user identity may originate a message to the user identity within an application that leverages the electronic social networking platform and the application then may cause the message from the other user identity that originated within the application to be posted to the user identity s wall or timeline. 

In addition to wall or timeline feed GUI also includes a profile section that presents a snapshot of profile information for the user identity identified as James. As illustrated in profile section includes information about James employment history software developer at MicroStrategy education history Massachusetts Institute of Technology current residence Washington D.C. hometown Chicago and birthday July 4 .

As with GUI GUI also includes a selectable Post A Message control a selectable Share A Photo Video control and an associated text entry field and selectable Post control . Selectable Post A Message control enables James to compose and publish a status post by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Similarly selectable Share A Photo Video control enables James to share a picture or a video and to compose and publish a corresponding status post by entering text in associated text entry field and invoking selectable Post control .

As discussed above in some electronic social networking platforms interests may be represented as interest objects that are manifested within the electronic social networking platform as pages. is a diagram of an example of a GUI for an example of an electronic social networking platform within which interests are represented as interest objects that are manifested within the electronic social networking platform as pages. More particularly GUI displays the MicroStrategy page corresponding to the MicroStrategy interest object that represents the software and technology company MicroStrategy within the electronic social networking platform.

As illustrated in the MicroStrategy page includes a description section that provides background information about MicroStrategy. The MicroStrategy page also includes a feed that includes among other content messages generated by the MicroStrategy page and published to user identities of the electronic social networking platform who have endorsed the MicroStrategy page or otherwise established a connection to the MicroStrategy page within the electronic social networking platform. In addition as further illustrated in the feed also includes messages posted directly to the MicroStrategy page by user identities of the electronic social networking platform. The electronic social networking platform may provide a variety of different mechanisms that enable user identities of the electronic social networking platform to post messages directly to a page such as for example the MicroStrategy page . In one example the electronic social networking platform may enable a user identity to post a message directly to the MicroStrategy page by entering text in text entry field and invoking selectable Post control . Although not illustrated as such in feed also may include various additional or alternative types of content.

The MicroStrategy page also includes a selectable Endorse control that enables user identities who view the MicroStrategy page and who have not already endorsed MicroStrategy to record an endorsement of MicroStrategy as one of their interests. In response to invocation of selectable Endorse control by a particular user identity the electronic social networking platform records that the particular user identity has endorsed MicroStrategy as an interest for example by establishing a connection between the user identity and the interest object that represents MicroStrategy within the electronic social networking platform. As illustrated in the MicroStrategy page also includes an indication reporting that 7 443 user identities already have endorsed MicroStrategy within the electronic social networking platform.

In some electronic social networking platforms interests endorsed by a particular user identity may be shared with or otherwise made available to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform. In particular in some electronic social networking platforms interests endorsed by a particular user identity may be shared with other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network. For example an electronic social networking platform may provide user identities who are members of a particular user identity s social network with access to a detailed user identity profile page that includes among other information indications of interests that the particular user identity has endorsed within the electronic social networking platform.

As described above an electronic social networking platform may enable independent applications to leverage the electronic social networking platform for example to provide more compelling user experiences for the users of the independent applications by accessing and or extracting data from the electronic social networking platforms.

Electronic social networking platform may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers configured to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. computing device connected to electronic social networking platform over network . The one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the features of an electronic social networking platform . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which electronic social networking platform is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data. Electronic social networking platform also may provide an application programming interface API that enables other applications to interact with and extract data from the electronic social networking platform .

Computing system also may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. servers . The one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented may have internal or external storage components storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. The one or more application programs may be implemented as instructions that are stored in the storage components and that when executed cause the one or more computing devices to provide the functionality ascribed herein to the computing system . Furthermore the one or more computing devices on which computing system is implemented each may include one or more processors for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . In addition these computing devices also typically may include network interfaces and communication devices for sending and receiving data.

As described in greater detail below computing system hosts an independent application that leverages electronic social networking platform to provide a service to one or more client devices e.g. computing device . For example the application may be a credential management application as described above in reference to . As such computing system is configured to extract and store data from electronic social networking platform . For example computing system may be configured to exploit API to extract data from electronic social networking platform .

Network may provide direct or indirect communication links between electronic social networking platform computing system and computing device . Examples of network include the Internet the World Wide Web wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs including wireless LANs WLANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanisms for carrying data.

Computing device may be any of a number of different types of computing devices including for example a tablet computer as illustrated in or a mobile phone a smartphone a personal digital assistant a laptop or netbook computer or a desktop computer. Furthermore computing device typically may have internal or external storage components for storing data and programs such as an operating system and one or more application programs. In particular the internal or external storage components for computing device may store a client application for interfacing with electronic social networking platform and or a client application for interfacing with computing system . Additionally or alternatively computing device may be configured to interface with electronic social networking platform or computing system without a specific client application using for example a web browser. As such one or more user identities of electronic social networking platform may be able to use computing device to access electronic social networking platform . Similarly one or more users of the independent application that leverages electronic social networking platform hosted by computing system may be able to use computing device to access the independent application.

Computing device also typically may include a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions stored in storage and or received from one or more other electronic devices for example over network . Computing device also usually may include one or more communication devices for sending and receiving data. One example of such communications devices is a modem. Other examples include antennas transceivers communications cards and other network adapters capable of transmitting and receiving data over a network e.g. network through a wired or wireless data pathway.

As illustrated in the electronic social networking platform may be represented in the form of a graph where user identities are represented by nodes and connections between user identities are represented by edges connecting the nodes. The electronic social networking platform may enable individual user identities to construct social networks within the electronic social networking platform by establishing connections with other user identities. Electronic social networking platform enables user identities who are members of a social network within electronic social networking platform to share various different types of data and other content e.g. including electronic messages with each other within the context of the electronic social networking platform .

Furthermore in addition to the service s that electronic social networking platform itself provides to user identities electronic social networking platform also provides mechanisms e.g. API that enable independent applications to leverage electronic social networking platform to provide services to user identities of the electronic social networking platform . For example among other features electronic social networking platform enables user identities of electronic social networking platform to grant access tokens or some other form of access mechanism or access right e.g. a password or PIN to such independent applications that authorize the independent applications to which the tokens are granted to extract data from electronic social networking platform on behalf of the user identities.

In some implementations the token or other form of access mechanism or access right e.g. a password or PIN that a particular user identity grants to an independent application may enable the independent application to access and or extract the particular user identity s user profile data as well as the user profile data for any other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform . Additionally or alternatively the token or other form of access mechanism or access right e.g. a password or PIN that the particular user identity grants to the independent application may enable the independent application to access and or extract data shared or received by the particular user identity within the electronic social networking platform as well as data shared or received by any other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform .

As discussed above computing system hosts an independent application that leverages electronic social networking platform . The electronic social networking platform is accessible to the application hosted by computing system over network and for example via API . In addition the application hosted by computing system is accessible to client devices e.g. computing device also over network .

As illustrated in in order for the application hosted by computing system to extract data about or otherwise related to a particular user identity and or other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network from electronic social networking platform the particular user identity first may grant the application hosted by computing system a token or some other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN that authorizes the application to extract such data from the electronic social networking platform on behalf of the particular user identity. Upon acquiring a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN for the particular user identity the application thereafter may transmit the token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN to electronic social networking platform along with requests to extract data from the electronic social networking platform on behalf of the particular user identity. Although schematically illustrates token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN as being transmitted to the application hosted by computing system from the computing device of the particular user identity e.g. computing device it will be understood that token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN actually may be transmitted to the application by the electronic social networking platform e.g. after being authorized to do so by the particular user identity . 

Referring now to when electronic social networking platform receives a request from the application hosted by computing system on behalf of the particular user identity to extract data about or otherwise related to the particular user identity and or other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network from electronic social networking platform that is accompanied by the appropriate token authorizing the application to extract data from the electronic social networking platform on behalf of the particular user identity the electronic social networking platform locates and returns the requested data about or otherwise related to the particular user identity and or other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network to the application hosted by computing system .

In some implementations the application hosted by computing system may extract the following data about or otherwise related to the particular user identity from the electronic social networking platform name gender birthday and or age current city hometown relationship status sexual orientation primary language employment history education history contact information e.g. mailing address es e mail address es phone number s etc. interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing interest objects manifested as pages within the electronic social networking platform check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform event information for events to which the particular user identity has been invited within the context of the electronic social networking platform status posts published by the particular user identity to other user identities who are members of the particular user identity s social network and any related responsive comments and or endorsements and wall posts or timeline posts received by the particular user identity.

Additionally or alternatively the application hosted by computing system also may extract the following data N about or otherwise related to each other user identity who is a member of the particular user identity s social network from the electronic social networking platform name gender birthday and or age current city hometown relationship status sexual orientation primary language employment history education history contact information e.g. mailing address es e mail address es phone number s etc. interests recorded with the electronic social networking platform e.g. by endorsing interest objects manifested as pages within the electronic social networking platform check ins registered with the electronic social networking platform event information for events to which the user identity has been invited within the context of the electronic social networking platform status posts published by the user identity to other user identities who are members of the user identity s social network and any related responsive comments and or endorsements and wall posts or timeline posts received by the user identity.

The application hosted by computing system may extract from the electronic social networking platform data about or otherwise related to each user identity for whom the application hosted by computing system has received a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN . Additionally or alternatively the application hosted by computing system may extract from the electronic social networking platform data about or otherwise related to the other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of each user identity for whom the application hosted by computing system has received a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN . In this manner in some implementations the application hosted by computing system may extract from the electronic social networking platform data about or otherwise related to user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are not also users of the application hosted by computing system .

In order to keep the data that is available to the application hosted by computing system generally synchronized with the data in the electronic social networking platform the application hosted by computing system occasionally may repeat the extraction from the electronic social networking platform data about or otherwise related to each user identity for whom the application hosted by computing system has received a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN as well as data about or otherwise related to other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of each user identity for whom the application hosted by computing system has received a token or other form of access mechanism or right e.g. a password or PIN .

The application hosted by computing system may use the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform for a variety of different purposes. For example as suggested above the application hosted by computing system may process the data extracted from the electronic social networking platform to glean intelligence about the users of the application and or the other user identities of the electronic social networking platform who are members of the social networks of the users of the application. For example as discussed above with respect to the application hosted on the computing system may calculate various different characteristics or estimates of various different characteristics of other user identities who are in the social network of the user identity from whom the application extracted electronic social networking platform data based on that extracted data. Furthermore the application may perform such calculations even if the electronic social networking platform itself does not record or make available data about such characteristics.

For instance the application may estimate a user identity s activity level of communication income affluence influence popularity and or happiness based on data extracted from the electronic social networking platform for the user identity.

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s activity based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. For example an activity score may be calculated for a user identity based on among other things the number of status posts generally broadcast by the user identities to their social networks the number of targeted posts the user identities directed to members of their social networks the number of locations at which the user identities checked in the number of responsive comments that the user identities posted the number of endorsements by the user identities of communications exchanged within the electronic social networking platform the number of indications of applications that leverage the electronic social networking platform that the user identities installed the number of events that occurred for which the user identities received and accepted invitations within the electronic social networking platform and the number of pages endorsed by the user identities over a defined period of time e.g. the previous 30 days the previous 60 days the previous 90 days the previous year etc. .

An activity score may then be calculated for the individual user identities as a function of one or more of these values. For example in some implementations the activity score for an individual user identity may be calculated according to the Equation 1 below Activity Level 2 status posts 2 targeted posts 2 checkins comments 0.5 comms. endorsed 3 apps installed 2 events attended pages endorsed Eq. 1 

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s level of communication within the electronic social networking platform based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. For example a communicativity score may be calculated for a user identity based on among other things counting the number of general status posts the user identities broadcasted generally to their social networks within the previous 30 days the number of photo status posts the user identities broadcasted generally to their social networks the number of video status posts the user identities broadcasted generally to their social networks the number of link status posts the user identities broadcasted generally to their social networks the number of different locations at which the user identities checked in the number of targeted posts the user identities directed to members of their social networks and the number of responsive comments the user identities posted over a defined period of time e.g. the previous 30 days the previous 60 days the previous 90 days the previous year etc. .

A communicativity score may then be calculated for the individual user identities as a function of one or more of these values. For example in some implementations the communicativity score for an individual user identity may calculated according to the Equation 2 below Comm. Score 2 status posts photo posts link posts video posts checkins comments Eq. 2 

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s income based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. For example a determination may be made as to whether the user identity likely has an income. This determination may be made based upon one or more of the user identity s age employment history and education history. If the user identity has a current employer specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined to have an income irrespective of the user identity s age and or education history. If the user identity is less than 18 years old and does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined not to have an income. If the user identity is between 18 years old and 21 years old does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history and does not have a college university or a graduate school specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined to have an income. In contrast if the user identity is between 18 years old and 21 years old does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history and does have a college university or a graduate school specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined not to have an income. If the user identity is between 22 years old and 25 years old does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history and does not have a graduate school specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined to have an income. In contrast if the user identity is between 22 years old and 25 years old does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history and does have a graduate school specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined to not have an income. If the user identity is between 25 years old and 65 years old and does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history the user identity still may be determined to have an income. If the user identity is more than 65 years old and does not have a current employer specified in his her employment history the user identity may be determined not to have an income. Finally if no age information is returned from the electronic social networking platform for the user identity the application may not be able to estimate the user identity s income.

If the user identity is determined to have an income a base income then is determined for the user identity. Different techniques may be employed to determine a base income for the user identity. For example one or more databases may be maintained that store base incomes to be used for user identities based on the current residence locations of the user identities. In some implementations the same base income may be used for all user identities within a single country. In such implementations the base income to be used for user identities from each country may be the mean or median income for the country. In other implementations different base incomes may be used for user identities from a single country. In such implementations the base incomes to be used may vary at the regional state or even city level and may be based on the mean or median incomes for the corresponding regions states or cities. For example the base incomes to be used for user identities residing in one country may be determined based on the cities in the country where the user identities currently reside. More particularly the base income to be used for a user identity may be the mean income for individuals in the user identity s current residence city. Alternatively the base income to be used for a user identity may be the median income for individuals in the user identity s current residence city.

After determining the base income for the user identity age and education level multipliers then are determined for the user identity. The age multiplier for the user identity may be calculated according to Equation 3 below 

Meanwhile the education level multiplier for the user identity depends on the user identity s education history. If the user identity s age is less than 22 years old the user identity s education level multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 2 below. Similarly if the user identity s education history specifies a high school but no college university or graduate school the user identity s education level multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 4 below 

If the user identity s education history specifies a college university but no graduate school and the user identity is at least 22 years old or no age is specified for the user identity the user identity s education multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 3 below. Similarly if the user identity s education history specifies a graduate school and the user identity is less than 25 years old the user identity s education level multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 5 below 

If the user identity s education history specifies a graduate school and the user identity is at least 25 years old the user identity s education level multiplier may be calculated according to Equation 6 below 

The education level multiplier for a user identity who does not satisfy any of the above conditions is 1. 

After the age and education level multipliers for the user identity have been determined the user s estimated income is determined according to Equation 7 below est. income base income age multiplier education level multiplier Eq. 7 

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s affluence based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. In one example an affluence score for a user identity may be determined for the user identity based on the income estimated for the user identity for example as described above. More particularly the affluence score for the user identity may be calculated by dividing the estimated income for the user identity by the highest estimated income for all user identities for which the application is able to calculate an estimated income and then multiplying the result by 100.

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s influence based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. For example an influence score may be calculated for a user identity based on the user identity s activity within the electronic social networking platform over a defined period of time e.g. the previous 30 days the previous 60 days the previous 90 days the previous year etc. . First the number of status posts M that the user identity has published within the electronic social networking platform during the defined period of time is determined. In addition the number of distinct users who endorsed each of the M posts is determined and the number of distinct users who commented on each of the M posts is determined. A raw influence score for the user identity then may be calculated according to Equation 8 below 

A final influence score for the user identity then is calculated for the user identity by converting the user identity s raw influence score to a logarithmic scale and dividing by a maximum cut off value so that the user identity s final influence score is within the range 0 99 according to Equation 9 below 

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s popularity based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. For example a popularity score may be calculated for a user identity based on targeted wall or timeline posts from other user identities wall or timeline posts from gaming applications and or event invitations that the user identity received within the electronic social networking platform over a defined period of time e.g. the previous 30 days the previous 60 days the previous 90 days the previous year etc. .

First the wall or timelines posts from other user identities the wall or timelines posts from gaming applications and the event invitations that the user received within the electronic social networking platform during the defined time period are identified. In addition the sources of each of the identified wall or timeline posts from other user identities the wall or timeline posts from gaming applications and the event invitations are identified. Then for each identified source i of wall or timelines posts from other user identities wall or timeline posts from gaming applications and event invitations a weighted score is calculated according to Equation 10 below 

After the score nhas been calculated for each source i a sum of the scores nfor all M sources may be calculated according to Equation 11 below Eq. 11 

A final popularity score for the user identity then is calculated for the user identity by converting the user identity s raw popularity score to a logarithmic scale and dividing by a maximum cut off value so that the user identity s final popularity score is within the range 0 99 according to Equation 13 below 

Various different techniques may be employed to estimate a user identity s happiness based on information extracted from the electronic social networking platform. One particular example is described below.

In this example a happiness score may be calculated for a user identity based on analyzing extracted status posts of the user identity to determine which if any of the status posts are happy status posts and which if any of the status posts are unhappy status posts. In some implementations a text analytics sentiment scoring engine e.g. Lexalytics Salience Engine may be used to for classifying a status post as happy or unhappy. For example a post may be passed to the sentiment scoring engine and a sentiment score for the status post received in return. The sentiment score may be used as a proxy for happiness for example by classifying a status post returning a positive sentiment score as happy and a status post returning a negative sentiment score as unhappy. Additional examples of techniques for classifying status posts as being happy or unhappy are described in greater detail below in connection with and . 

The application then may count the total number of status posts the user identities generally broadcast to their social networks the number of status posts the user identities broadcast to their social networks that are categorized as being happy and the number of status posts the user identities broadcast to their social networks that are categorized as being unhappy over a defined period of time e.g. the previous 30 days the previous 60 days the previous 90 days the previous year etc. .

A happiness score may then be calculated for the individual user identities as a function of one or more of these values. For example in some implementations the happiness score for an individual user identity may calculated according to the Equation 14 below Happiness 5 happy posts 10 unhappy posts Eq. 14 

The computing system determines if the message includes any emoticons . If the computing system determines that the message includes an emoticon the computing system proceeds to determine if the emoticon identified in the message matches any target emoticons identified as being indicative of certain categories . For example in some implementations a first set of target emoticons may be identified as being indicative of happy messages and a second set of target emoticons may be identified as being indicative of unhappy messages. An example of a set of emoticons that may be indicative of happy messages is presented in Table 1 and an example of a set of emoticons that may be indicative of unhappy messages in presented in Table 2. In such implementations the computing system may compare the emoticon identified within the message to the first and second sets of emoticons to determine if the emoticon identified within the message matches any of the emoticons in the first and second sets of emoticons.

If the computing system determines that the emoticon identified in the message matches a target emoticon identified as being indicative of a certain category the computing system categorizes the message as belonging to the category of the target emoticon that the emoticon identified within the message matched . For example if the computing system determines that the emoticon identified within the message matches one of the emoticons presented in Table 1 the computing system may categorize the message as a happy message. Similarly if the computing system determines that the emoticon identified within the message matches one of the emoticons presented in Table 2 the computing system may categorize the message as an unhappy message. In addition to determining if the emoticon identified within the message matches any target emoticons the computing system also may replace the emoticon identified within the message with a period i.e. . . The computing system may repeat operations and for all emoticons identified in the message.

In addition to identifying emoticons in the message the computing system also may determine if the message includes any uniform resource locators URLs . For example the computing system may search the message for character strings beginning with the prefixes http or https and identify as a URL any character string that begins with one of these prefixes. The computing system also may search the message for other character strings or patterns that frequently appear in URLs to identify URLs within the message for example in the event that URLs that do not include the http or https are present within the message. If the computing system determines that the message includes a URL the computing system removes the URL from the message . This operation may be repeated for all URLs identified in the message.

In addition to identifying URLs in the message the computing system also determines if the message includes instances of repeated punctuation marks . If the computing system determines that the message includes an instance of a repeated punctuation mark the computing system replaces the repeated punctuation mark with a single instance of the punctuation mark . For example if the computing system recognizes a repeated string of periods e.g. . . . . . the computing system may replace the repeated string of periods with a single period e.g. . . Similarly if the computing system recognizes a repeated string of question marks e.g. or a repeated string of exclamation marks e.g. the computing system may replace the repeated string of question marks with a single question mark e.g. or the repeated string of exclamation marks with a single exclamation mark e.g. . This operation may be repeated for all instances of repeated punctuation marks in the message

The computing system also determines if the message includes any instances of so called chat slang e.g. hehehe or hahaha . If the computing system determines that the message includes an instance of chat slang the computing system removes the chat slang from the message . This operation may be repeated for all instances of chat slang identified in the message.

After removing any emoticons URLs repeated punctuation marks and or chat slang from the message the computing system then determines if any text remains in the message . If no text remains in the message at this point the process ends. Alternatively if text remains in the message the computing system attempts to identify one or more candidate languages for the message . An example of a process for identifying candidate languages for a message is illustrated and described in greater detail below in connection with . If the computing system is unable to identify a candidate language for the message the process ends. Alternatively if the computing system is able to identify one or more candidate languages for the message the computing system proceeds.

As described in greater detail below in some implementations the computing system attempts to categorize the message based on the appearance of certain category indicators e.g. words terms phrases strings patterns etc. in the message. In some implementations the computing system may maintain different sets of category indicators for each of several different languages. Thus the computing system may attempt to identify at least two different candidate languages for the message and then the computing system may attempt to categorize the message using the sets of category indicators for each of the different candidate languages.

After identifying one or more candidate languages for the message the computing system identifies individual sentences within the post . For example the computing system may identify individual sentences within the message by identifying text strings that conclude with certain sentence ending punctuation marks e.g. periods . question marks or exclamation marks .

For each sentence identified within the message the computing system then searches the sentence for category indicators that match category indicator lists for each of the candidate languages identified for the message . An example of a process for searching text for category indicators that match category indicator lists is illustrated and described in greater detail below in connection with . Category indicator lists may be available for a number of different categories in a number of different languages. For example category indicator lists may be available for categorizing messages as happy or unhappy. Example category indicator lists for each of these categories for the English language are provided in Tables 3 5 below.

Within the example category indicator lists presented in Tables 3 5 above the notations presented below in Table 6 may be used to indicate different rules 

Still referring to if the computing system detects that the sentence includes matches to one or more of the category indicator lists for the candidate language the computing system categorizes the message from which the sentence was taken as belonging to the category of the indicator list s for which matches were found in the sentence . The computing system may repeat these operations for each sentence identified within the message. After each sentence within the message has been searched for category indicators that match category indicator lists for each of the candidate languages identified for the message the process may end.

In some implementations instead of searching individual sentences of a post for matches to category indicator lists an entire post itself may be searched for matches to category indicator lists irrespective of the number of sentences within the post.

In some implementations the computing system also may search the message for the word not. In such implementations if the computing system has categorized a message as being a happy message or a sad message and the computing system determines that the word not is present in the message the computing system may reverse the happy or sad categorization. For example if the computing system has categorized a message as being a happy message and the computing system detects the word not as being present in the message the computing system may remove the happy categorization for the message. Similarly if the computing system has categorized the message as being unhappy and the computing system detects the word not as being present in the message the computing system may remove the unhappy categorization for the message.

The computing system converts the characters of the message into their UTF 8 hexadecimal representations . Taking the input message new car as an example the computing system would convert the input message to 6E 65 57 20 63 61 72. 

The computing system then uses the UTF 8 hexadecimal representations of the characters in the post to generate trigrams of the UTF 8 hexadecimal byte sequences for the characters in the post . Taking the input message new car again as an example the computing system would generate the following trigrams of UTF 8 hexadecimal byte sequences 6E 65 57 65 57 20 57 20 63 20 63 61 and 63 61 72. 

The computing system then generates a frequency weighted trigram distribution vector for the message . For example the computing system may generate a trigram distribution vector for the message in which each trigram in the message is represented by a corresponding element in the vector and in which the elements of the vector are weighted according to the number of times the trigrams to which they correspond appear in the message.

The computing system then compares the frequency weighted trigram distribution vector for the message to trigram distribution vectors or alternatively trigram distribution tries for multiple different candidate language models . These trigram distribution vectors or trigram distribution tries for the different candidate language models may be derived from a common document that is translated into each of the different candidate languages. For example a document such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights may be translated into each of the different candidate languages. Each of the resulting versions of the document then may be converted into UTF 8 hexadecimal byte sequence trigrams from which a trigram distribution vector or a trigram distribution trie for the candidate language may be generated.

Based on comparing the frequency weighted trigram distribution vector for the message to the trigram distribution vectors or the trigram distribution tries for the different candidate language models the computing system calculates language match scores for the message for each of the candidate languages . For example the language match score R for the message for an individual one of the candidate language models may be calculated according to the equation 15 below 

After calculating the language match scores for the message for each of the candidate languages the computing system then determines if the message sufficiently matches one or more of the candidate language models . For example the computing system may determine that the message sufficiently matches one of the candidate language models if the language match score for the message for the candidate language exceeds some predefined threshold value.

If the computing system determines that the message sufficiently matches one or more of the candidate language models the process returns indications of the language s for which the message was determined to sufficiently match the candidate language model s . The process then may end. In some implementations if the message is determined to sufficiently match multiple candidate language models the computing system may limit the languages returned to some predefined number of languages that the message is determined to match most closely.

Alternatively if the message does not sufficiently match any of the candidate language models the process returns a value indicating that no matches were identified . The process then may end.

The computing system accesses one or more radix tree representations of the category indicator lists . In some implementations if there are multiple category indicator lists all of the category indicator lists may be represented in a single radix tree. In other implementations each category indicator list may be represented by its own radix tree.

The computing system then identifies an individual word within the text and searches the radix tree representation s of the category indicator lists for strings that match the identified word and or strings that match substrings within the identified word . If the computing system finds a match the computing system assigns the identified word an integer value that represents the match and that is specified in the node that represents the matched string within the radix tree representation s of the category indicator lists . Alternatively if the computing system does not find a match the computing system assigns the identified word an integer value that reflects the absence of a match e.g. 1 .

The computing system then determines if additional words remain in the text and if so repeats this radix tree based string matching for each word identified within the text. As a result the computing system converts the text into a sequence of integers. The computing system then compares the integer sequence for the text to integer representations of the category indicators specified in the category indicator lists and attempts to identify matches between the integer sequence representation of the text and the integer representations of the category indicators specified in the category indicator lists .

If the computing system determines that there are one or more matches between the integer sequence representation of the text and the integer representations of the category indicators the computing system returns the category or categories of the category indicator lists for which matches were found in the integer sequence representation of the text . The process then may end. Alternatively if the computing system determines that there are no matches between the integer sequence representation of the text and the integer representations of the category indicators the computing system returns an indication that no matches were found . The process then may end.

The client device receives a representation for a credential associated with a user identity within a social networking platform . The representation may be rendered on a second client device where rendered on can include among other things displaying an alphanumeric code or an optical machine readable code or transmitting a sound signal or an NFC code. The representation for the credential may be for example an alphanumeric code an optical machine readable code e.g. the QR code shown in a sound signal or an NFC code used to encode a credential e.g. a certificate associated with a user identity within a electronic social networking platform. The client device may receive the representation for the credential by means of software and hardware appropriate to the medium of the representation of the credential.

Next the client device validates the representation for the credential associated with the user identity . Validation may include decoding data encoded in the received representation of the credential and comparing the decoded data which may include a certificate associated with the credential with data stored on the client device. Alternatively or in addition the client device may send a validation request to a server including decoded data from the received representation of the credential. The server may then compare the decoded data to data stored on the server and send a validation response to the client device including results of the validation. For instance the results may include an indication of successful or unsuccessful validation e.g. screen shown in or GUI shown in and if the validation is successful information related to the electronic social networking platform user identity associated with the credential.

Then the client device accesses a score e.g. the scores shown in associated with the user identity . The client device may use the credential or data associated with the credential e.g. the user identity to access social characteristics associated with the user identity within the electronic social networking platform. The social characteristics may include one or more scores calculated based on data associated with a plurality of other user identities who are members of user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform. The data associated with the plurality of other user identities may be based on interactions by the other user identities with the electronic social networking platform such as engagement with the electronic social networking platform by the plurality of other user identities or a characteristic of the plurality of other user identities within the electronic social networking platform.

Lastly the client device outputs the accessed score in response to validating the representation for the credential e.g. the GUIs shown in D or E . In some implementations the client device outputs a list of multiple scores associated with the user identity within the electronic social networking platform. For example the scores may include a Friends Activity score a Friends Communicativity score a Friends Popularity score a Friends Influence score a Friends Happiness score a Friends Affluence score a number of friend user identities that the user identity and validator user identity i.e. a user identity associated with the client device have in common with in the electronic social networking platform or a social proximity between the user identity and the validator user identity. The scores may be an average or weighted average of scores calculated for individual user identities that are members of the user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform.

In some implementations a request e.g. control shown in may be generated to add the user identity to the validator user identity s social network within the electronic social networking platform i.e. a friend request after successfully validating the social credential. In some implementations the request may only be generated if one or more of the scores associated with the user identity meets predefined criteria. For example the predefined criteria may include a threshold value previously set by the user of the client device for a particular social characteristic. Alternatively or in addition the predefined criteria may include a specified number of mutual friend user identities within the validator user identity s and the user identity s social networks within the electronic social networking platform. The criteria also may include a minimum social proximity between the validator user identity and the user identity within the electronic social networking platform or a condition that the validator user identity and the user identity have a specific mutual friend user identity within the electronic social networking platform for example.

The techniques described herein can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The techniques can be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device in machine readable storage medium in a computer readable storage device or in computer readable storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps of the techniques can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the techniques by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus of the techniques can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data such as magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

A number of implementations of the techniques have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example although various techniques generally are disclosed herein as being performed externally to an electronic social networking platform in some implementations the techniques disclosed herein may be performed internally by an electronic social networking platform.

Furthermore it should be noted that for situations in which the systems discussed herein collect personal information about users the users may be provided with an opportunity to opt in out of programs or features that may collect personal information e.g. information about a user s preferences or a user s current location . In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized.

