---

title: Coordinating application migration processes
abstract: Systems and articles of manufacture for coordinating application migration processes include selecting at least one migration service for an application based on analysis of application information and information pertaining to multiple migration services, creating a migration plan to migrate the application to a target cloud based on the at least one selected migration service, and executing the migration plan, utilizing the at least one selected migration service, to migrate the application to the target cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602599&OS=09602599&RS=09602599
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09602599
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130819
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 904 498 filed May 29 2013 and incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to information technology and more particularly to application migration technology.

Cloud computing includes computing resources as services delivered over the Internet. Migrating existing enterprise applications into the cloud presents challenges. For instance an application may often include multiple network connected servers hosting various middleware and software. Accordingly to migrate such an application to the cloud typically all of the application components need to be migrated as one unit that is within a specified time period in order to ensure prompt and successful operation of the application after migration.

In existing approaches individual vendors often provide proprietary migration technologies for a specific target cloud environment for some types of applications. Some vendor migration technologies may work well for certain components in an application but not for all components therein. Migrating an application using such migration technologies may result in costly and lengthy remediation processes typically performed by professional services. However users usually lack knowledge in how well various migration technologies work for different types of components and how multiple migration technologies can be integrated to work together to migrate an application. As a result users may not select appropriate migration technologies thereby relying on a migration process that is time consuming error prone and costly.

In one aspect of the present invention techniques for coordinating application migration processes are provided. An exemplary computer implemented method can include steps of selecting at least one migration service for an application based on analysis of application information and information pertaining to multiple migration services creating a migration plan to migrate the application to a target cloud based on the at least one selected migration service and executing the migration plan utilizing the at least one selected migration service to migrate the application to the target cloud.

Another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which when implemented cause a computer to carry out a plurality of method steps as described herein. Furthermore another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and configured to perform noted method steps.

Yet further another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of means for carrying out the method steps described herein or elements thereof the means can include hardware module s or a combination of hardware and software modules wherein the software modules are stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or multiple such media .

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

As described herein an aspect of the present invention includes techniques for providing migration broker capabilities as a service. Additionally at least one embodiment of the invention includes a migration broker framework capable for use by a vendor to plug in an individual migration technology. Such a framework can be used to coordinate migration processes among migration service requesters migration service providers and target clouds.

At least one embodiment of the invention includes creating an application vector which is an array vector of an internal property representation of a given application and or systematically categorizing and storing the properties of all components of a given application into an application vector. Additionally a migration performance matrix can be created which sets a benchmark for the migration cost for migrating a given application with a specific application vector using a given migration technology. At least one embodiment of the invention can also include symmetrically transforming an application vector into a migration cost given the migration technology used.

Further an application properties analysis engine can be used to transform the given application into the application vector representation. A migration technology analysis engine can also be used to categorize and transform the application vector into the migration cost for a given migration technology. Additionally in connection with at least one embodiment of the invention a migration broker is used to optimize the matching between the given application and one or more underlying migration technologies and the target cloud based on minimizing the total migration cost derived from comparative analyses between the application vector and various migration technologies.

Another aspect of the invention includes a migration broker communicating with vendor migration technologies by way of a pre defined migration broker application programming interface API . This API defines how a migration broker invokes a specific vendor migration technology how application meta data are packed and passed to a target vendor migration technology how the migration broker can monitor the running progress of a target vendor migration technology and how the migration results are returned from a target vendor migration technology to the migration broker.

As further detailed herein an aspect of the invention includes matching application migration vendors based on application meta data and coordinating the vendors to complete a given application migration. Meta data as used herein refers to application attributes for cloud migration. Migration service vendor meta data can include migration service vendor information such as vendor name and service description. Migration service vendor meta data can be registered with a migration broker and provide an entry point for its migration technology as defined by the migration broker API. Further migration service vendor meta data can include a migration user manual that is instructions for an end user on how to prepare and start a migration task and a migration service report such as to guide a user on how to access a migrated application or to provide remediation guidelines.

Step includes pre qualifying the application for migration. Pre qualifying includes using the meta information about the underlying application for comparison with the features and capabilities of the target cloud in order to determine if the underlying application does or does not require resources beyond the constraints of the target cloud. Once the application is pre qualified step includes matching the application to a migration service from the set of registered migration services . In at least one embodiment of the invention the migration broker framework recommends the most suitable back end migration service and or migration services combination for the given application. Such an embodiment includes identifying all capable migration services and or service combinations to complete the application migration based on an analysis of the application specifications and migration requirements.

Additionally the migration broker framework assesses and matches an optimal migration service and or service combination based on selected metrics and or benchmarking data. An example of metrics used by the migration broker includes the ability of a vendor migration service to migrate some middleware and potentially the data or applications managed thereby such as DB2 or Websphere without significant remediation.

Step includes calling the relevant migration service based upon the matching step. After the migration has started a client can monitor the migration progress and performance via the monitoring and reporting component . Step includes remediating and or testing the migrated application . An example remediation step can include the manual process of reconfiguring network addresses from those deployed in the original application to the new addresses on the cloud. Another example remediation step includes reconfiguring middleware and or application property files to ensure that they are running properly in the new environment.

After migration the client can be provided a migration completeness notification and the application s can be run to test for functionality and performance and perform necessary remediation. Further step includes enabling management of the migration service associated with the migrated application . An example of the management service of a migration broker includes the process required to make migrated server instances manageable by a managed target cloud. While most public clouds to date are unmanaged clouds some enterprise grade clouds are examples of managed clouds. A managed cloud requires its hosted components to be compliant to certain configurations and installed with management applications so that the cloud can monitor the components for security policy and performance compliance.

By way of example after the migration completes the migration result can be presented to the client user and the client user can additionally review the application status migration performance and virtual machine VM information associated with the target cloud. Also at least one embodiment of the invention additionally includes providing the ability to select migration tasks and enable patch management.

As also illustrated in the monitoring and reporting component is utilized in the execution of steps and . In each of steps and progress and status are presented to the client through the monitoring and reporting component . An example of monitoring and reporting for discovery in step includes identifying that discovery may be performed by discovery agents run on the source servers of the underlying application. The discovery agents collect application information and report to the migration broker.

Additionally step includes depicting the on going progress so that the client knows when completion has been reached. Step also includes monitoring the progress during the execution of the pre qualification matching and enabling steps while reporting the progress to the client. In step for which one or more vendor migration technologies are performing the migration services for the underlying application the monitoring and reporting by the migration broker is achieved through the migration broker API through which the running vender migration services report current status updates periodically.

Additionally at least one embodiment of the invention can include decomposing the application into multiple sub tasks and assigning multiple vendor migration services to perform the different sub tasks. An aspect of the invention can also include enabling a client to configure back end migration services among different services providers . A user guide can allow a client to obtain and or access various migration steps of selected migration services.

The migration service broker includes an application property and migration analysis engine which includes an application vector analyzer component and an application migration task decomposer component . The application information is passed to the application property and migration analysis engine which transforms the information to an internal representation by the application vector analyzer which is decomposed into migratable components by component before storing the processed data representation into the application migration pattern database .

The migration service broker also includes a migration service matcher module which includes a vendor matcher component and a target cloud matcher component . The migration service matcher module can create a migration plan by selecting the most appropriate or applicable migration service s for a source application. Such an action can be carried out via performing analysis on the application meta data and historical data pertaining to migration services with one or more objectives that can include a lowest migration failure risk a lowest total migration cost a shortest migration time etc. The target cloud matcher matches the source application based on information received from the application vector analyzer and the target cloud information. Any mismatches would fail the aforementioned pre qualification step step in .

Further the migration service broker includes a migration technology analysis engine a migration task scheduler and coordination component a migration task fail over handler component and a migration measurement collector component . When the migration service matcher selects one or more vendor migration services to perform migration for a source application the service matcher employs the migration task scheduler and coordinator to formulate the migration plan and to coordinate the migration process integrating potentially multiple vendor migration services. When one vendor migration service fails to migrate its assigned component the migration task fail over handler component can devise and schedule a new migration plan with an alternative vendor migration service for the failed component. Additionally remediation tasks can be coordinated if the migration is successful and or failure causes can be analyzed and a next step can be recommended.

Additionally the migration service broker includes a vendor migration performance data database and an application migration pattern and interactive variables database . The vendor migration performance data database maintains meta data for vendor migration services which can facilitate at least one embodiment of the invention to create a capability profile with feature details for each migration service as well as to tracks and maintain historical and statistical data for services performed by migration services. The migration technology analysis engine monitors the migration tasks performed by the vendor migration services and records the results in the vendor migration performance database . The migration measurement collector accesses result data of the vendor migration services from the vendor migration performance database and computes vendor migration performance metrics to store back to the vendor migration performance database . The performance metrics are then used by the vendor matcher processor to select the vendor migration services for a source application.

At least one embodiment of the invention includes defining application programming interfaces APIs for facilitating interaction between the migration broker framework and vendor migration services. By way of example sample APIs can include the following 

Step includes performing analysis on the received meta information and historical records to select the best or more appropriate migration service s for the application. Such analysis can include for example application profiling benchmark and or historical data determination and pattern matching. Step includes creating a migration plan for the application based on the selected best migration services for the application. Within such a migration plan migration tasks include set up capture readiness and deployment.

Step includes executing the migration plan using the migration services selected therein to migrate the application to the target cloud s . Step includes receiving a migration result from each migration service in the migration plan and correspondingly updating the historical meta information for each migration service.

Step includes logging in to each server using the corresponding credential information installing a meta information discovery agent and running the discovery agent therein. Step includes collecting discovery data for all servers in the application via the agent and step includes generating meta information about the application based on the discovery data.

Additionally step includes determining whether each sub task succeeded. If no that is if a sub task did not succeed step includes selecting a different migration service to migrate the component associated with that sub task. If yes that is a sub task did succeed step includes providing configuration data to a pre specified party to configure the application on the target cloud s and verify that the component associated with that sub task is functioning correctly. Further step includes receiving and recording the status of the component.

Step includes creating a migration plan to migrate the application to a target cloud based on the at least one selected migration service. The migration plan can include one or more migration tasks including set up capture prepare and deploy. Step includes executing the migration plan utilizing the at least one selected migration service to migrate the application to the target cloud.

The techniques depicted in can also include receiving application information and information pertaining to multiple migration services. At least one embodiment of the invention can include receiving application information via manual user input and or receiving application information via automated discovery tool. Receiving application information via automated discovery tool can include receiving a list of servers in the application and corresponding credential information for each of the servers logging in to each of the servers using the corresponding credential information and installing a discovery agent in each of the servers. Such an embodiment of the invention can also include running the discovery agent in each of the servers collecting discovery data for each of the servers in the application and generating application information based on the discovery data collected for each of the servers.

Additionally the techniques depicted in can include storing information pertaining to each of the multiple migration services in a database. Also at least one embodiment of the invention includes receiving a migration result from the at least one selected migration service in the migration plan and updating historical information pertaining to the at least one selected migration service based on the migration result.

Further as noted herein at least one embodiment of the invention includes determining whether the application migrated to the target cloud successfully. Such an embodiment of the invention can also include selecting a different migration service to migrate the application if the application did not migrate to the target cloud successfully and or providing configuration data to a pre specified party to configure the application on the target cloud and verifying that the application is running correctly if the application migrated to the target cloud successfully.

The techniques depicted in can additionally include identifying multiple components of the application. Also at least one embodiment of the invention can include selecting a migration service for each of the components of the application based on analysis of application information and information pertaining to multiple migration services creating a migration plan to migrate each of the components of the application to a corresponding target cloud based on the selected migration service for each of the components of the application and executing the migration plan utilizing the selected migration service for each of the components to migrate each of the components of the application to the corresponding target cloud.

Further at least one embodiment of the invention includes selecting a different migration service to migrate a component if the component did not migrate successfully. Also such an embodiment can additionally include providing configuration data to a pre specified party to configure a component on the corresponding target cloud and verifying that the component is functioning correctly if the component migrated successfully.

The techniques depicted in can also as described herein include providing a system wherein the system includes distinct software modules each of the distinct software modules being embodied on a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium. All of the modules or any subset thereof can be on the same medium or each can be on a different medium for example. The modules can include any or all of the components shown in the figures and or described herein. In an aspect of the invention the modules can run for example on a hardware processor. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules of the system as described above executing on a hardware processor. Further a computer program product can include a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium with code adapted to be executed to carry out at least one method step described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

Additionally the techniques depicted in can be implemented via a computer program product that can include computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a data processing system and wherein the computer useable program code was downloaded over a network from a remote data processing system. Also in an aspect of the invention the computer program product can include computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system and wherein the computer useable program code is downloaded over a network to a remote data processing system for use in a computer readable storage medium with the remote system.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

An aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and configured to perform exemplary method steps.

Additionally an aspect of the present invention can make use of software running on a general purpose computer or workstation. With reference to such an implementation might employ for example a processor a memory and an input output interface formed for example by a display and a keyboard . The term processor as used herein is intended to include any processing device such as for example one that includes a CPU central processing unit and or other forms of processing circuitry. Further the term processor may refer to more than one individual processor. The term memory is intended to include memory associated with a processor or CPU such as for example RAM random access memory ROM read only memory a fixed memory device for example hard drive a removable memory device for example diskette a flash memory and the like. In addition the phrase input output interface as used herein is intended to include for example a mechanism for inputting data to the processing unit for example mouse and a mechanism for providing results associated with the processing unit for example printer . The processor memory and input output interface such as display and keyboard can be interconnected for example via bus as part of a data processing unit . Suitable interconnections for example via bus can also be provided to a network interface such as a network card which can be provided to interface with a computer network and to a media interface such as a diskette or CD ROM drive which can be provided to interface with media .

Accordingly computer software including instructions or code for performing the methodologies of the invention as described herein may be stored in associated memory devices for example ROM fixed or removable memory and when ready to be utilized loaded in part or in whole for example into RAM and implemented by a CPU. Such software could include but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual implementation of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during implementation.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices and the like can be coupled to the system either directly such as via bus or through intervening I O controllers omitted for clarity .

Network adapters such as network interface may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

As used herein including the claims a server includes a physical data processing system for example system as shown in running a server program. It will be understood that such a physical server may or may not include a display and keyboard.

As noted aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon. Also any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using an appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of at least one programming language including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Accordingly an aspect of the invention includes an article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which when implemented cause a computer to carry out a plurality of method steps as described herein.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module component segment or portion of code which comprises at least one executable instruction for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It should be noted that any of the methods described herein can include an additional step of providing a system comprising distinct software modules embodied on a computer readable storage medium the modules can include for example any or all of the components detailed herein. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules and or sub modules of the system as described above executing on a hardware processor . Further a computer program product can include a computer readable storage medium with code adapted to be implemented to carry out at least one method step described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

In any case it should be understood that the components illustrated herein may be implemented in various forms of hardware software or combinations thereof for example application specific integrated circuit s ASICS functional circuitry an appropriately programmed general purpose digital computer with associated memory and the like. Given the teachings of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the components of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of another feature integer step operation element component and or group thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed.

At least one aspect of the present invention may provide a beneficial effect such as for example matching application migration vendors based on application meta data and coordinating the migration vendors to complete an application migration.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

