---

title: Delivering recall messages via internet or telephony communication paths
abstract: A method, system, and medium are provided for delivering recallable messages via Internet or telephony paths. A sender may configure a message as a recallable message on a communication device that is communicatively connected to a messaging alert platform. The request is delivered to a messaging alert platform, which then delivers the recallable message on the Internet or telephony paths. The messages are formatted by the messaging alert platform based to comply with the requirements of the selected communication path. The messaging alert platform attempts delivery until all paths are exhausted or a response, not an auto-reply, is received from the recipient of the message. The responses are filtered by the messaging alert platform before delivering the response from the recipient to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509654&OS=09509654&RS=09509654
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09509654
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131114
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 13 152 424 filed 3 Jun. 2011 and is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 034 393 filed 24 Feb. 2011 and titled RECALLING USER GENERATED MESSAGES which are each hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the invention are defined by the claims below. Embodiments of the invention provide wireless devices methods and computer readable media for among other things routing a recallable messages to a recipient. The embodiments of the invention have several practical applications in the technical arts including providing visibility of a message across multiple communication services reaching a recipient within a sender defined period of time and providing recall of the recallable message from communication services where the recipient was unavailable or unresponsive.

In an embodiment a computer system generates recallable messages. The computer system includes a sender s communication device and messaging alert platform. The messaging alert platform is communicatively coupled to the sender s communication device. The messaging alert platform is configured to receive a request to transmit recallable messages. In turn the messaging alert platform attempts delivery of the recallable messages at communication paths available for recipients of the recallable messages. The messaging platform may receive and filter replies in accordance with preferences established by the sender. In some embodiments the messaging alert platform includes an account manager a transcoder a control manager a parser storage recall logic and communication interfaces.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in isolation as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The subject matter of embodiments of the present invention is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. But the description itself is not intended to necessarily limit the scope of claims. Rather the claimed subject matter might be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention provide a messaging alert platform that allows senders to track delivery of a recallable message on multiple communication paths. The messaging platform provides the senders with notifications when recallable messages transmitted by the senders are delayed during transmission to an intended recipient or not delivered to the intended recipient. The senders are able to configure the message alert platform with message handling options that specify alternate communication paths alternate communication formats or alternate accounts for delivery of the recallable messages. The alternate accounts include short messaging service accounts multimedia message service accounts instant messaging accounts and social networking accounts. The message handling options include various forms of electronic messaging and social networking accounts. When an alternate communication path alternate communication format or alternate account is selected and the messaging alert platform retries delivery of the recallable message the original recallable message is recalled. Because senders have grown accustomed to near instant communication delivery delays of the recallable message to the intended recipient are not tolerated. Accordingly embodiments of the invention allow senders to specify a reply period that indicates a maximum length of time that may transpire before the sender expects to receive a reply.

It should be understood that this and other arrangements described herein are set forth only as examples. Other arrangements and elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used in addition to or instead of those shown and some elements may be omitted altogether. Further many of the elements described herein are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components and in any suitable combination and location. Various functions described herein as being performed by one or more entities may be carried out by hardware firmware and or software. For instance various functions may be carried out by a processor executing instructions stored in memory.

Throughout this description several acronyms and shorthand notations are used to aid the understanding of certain concepts pertaining to the associated system and services. These acronyms and shorthand notations are intended for the purpose of providing an easy methodology of communicating the ideas expressed herein and are not meant to limit the scope of the embodiments of the invention. The following is a nonexhaustive list of these acronyms 

Embodiments of the invention may be embodied as among other things a method system or set of instructions embodied on one or more computer readable media. Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplate media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer useable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Media examples include but are not limited to information delivery media RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These technologies can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

The communication devices are connected to MAP . The communication devices transmit recallable messages to intended recipients over a communication network. In some embodiments the communication network may be the telephone network or the Internet . In one embodiment the communication devices transmit the recallable message via antennae . Antennae are connected to BSC . BSC is connected to MAP . In another embodiment the communication device transmits the recallable message via router . Router is connected to Internet . Internet is connected to MAP . In turn MAP transmits the recallable message to the intended recipients.

The Internet is a communication network that provides the communication devices of the sender with multiple communication paths to the intended recipients. The Internet comprises a collection of network switches that route the recallable message. The Internet may provide the senders with access to communication services like email services social networking services instant messaging services tweet blogging services and MAP services .

Email service enables the sender to transmit an electronic message to the intended recipient. The MAP configures the electronic message transmitted via email service to be recallable. In some embodiments the email service may be an agent executing on the communication device of the sender.

Social networking service enables the sender to transmit an electronic message to the intended recipient. Social networking service may also allow the sender to transmit instant messages or communicate via messaging boards. The MAP configures the messages transmitted via social networking service to be recallable. In some embodiments the social networking service may be an agent executing on the communication device of the sender.

Instant messaging service enables the sender to transmit an electronic message to the intended recipient. The instant messaging service allows the sender to have an electronic conversation with an intended recipient that is available and online. If the intended recipient is unavailable or offline the sender may leave a message that the intended recipient can retrieve when available and online. The MAP configures the messages transmitted via instant messaging service to be recallable. In some embodiments the instant messaging service may be an agent executing on the communication device of the sender.

Tweet blogging service enables the sender to transmit an electronic message to a collection of intended recipients. The tweet blogging service allows the sender to broadcast the electronic message to intended recipients that are available and online. If the intended recipients are unavailable or offline the sender may leave the message that the intended recipients may retrieve when available and online. The MAP configures the messages transmitted via tweet blogging service to be recallable. In some embodiments the tweet blogging service may be an agent executing on the communication device of the sender.

MAP service enables the sender to transmit an electronic message to the intended recipient. The MAP service allows the sender to communicate the electronic message to the intended recipient that has a MAP compliant communication device . If the communication devices of intended recipient are MAP compliant the sender may transmit the message to the intended recipient. The MAP configures the messages transmitted via MAP service to be recallable. In some embodiments the MAP service may be an agent executing on the communication device of the sender or intended recipient.

The telephone network is a communication network that provides the communication devices of the sender with multiple communication paths to the intended recipients. The telephone network comprises a collection of telephone switches that route the recallable message. The telephone network may provide the senders with access to communication services like SMS MMS and PTT services .

The Internet and telephone networks might comprise for example a cable network a wireless network e.g. a wireless telecommunications network or a combination thereof or portions thereof. A wireless telecommunications network refers to any type of telecommunications network that is wireless. Examples of wireless telecommunications technologies include but are not limited to Global System for Mobile Communications GSM General Packet Radio Service GPRS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA CDMA2000 CDMAOne Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN WiMAX 3G 4G and Personal Communications Service PCS . A wireless telecommunications network might include an array of devices which are not shown so as to not obscure more relevant aspects of the invention. Components such as a base station controller a communications tower or even access points as well as other components can provide wireless connectivity in some embodiments.

SMS enables the sender to transmit an electronic message to the intended recipient. The SMS allows the sender to communicate the electronic message to the intended recipient. The MAP configures the messages transmitted via SMS to be recallable. In some embodiments the SMS may be an agent executing on the communication device of the sender or intended recipient.

MMS enables the sender to transmit an electronic message to the intended recipient. The electronic message may include multimedia information e.g. audio image and video. The MMS allows the sender to communicate the electronic message to the intended recipient. The MAP configures the messages transmitted via MMS to be recallable. In some embodiments the MMS may be an agent executing on the communication device of the sender or intended recipient.

PTT service enables the sender to transmit a voice communication to the intended recipient. The PTT service allows the sender to communicate the voice communication to the intended recipient. The PTT voice communications are not recallable. In some embodiments the PTT service may be an agent executing on the communication device of the sender or intended recipient.

In some embodiments MAP provides feedback regarding message delivery to the communication device of the sender. MAP streamlines and improves the process of contacting the intended recipient quickly. MAP utilizes all available communication formats in a staggered manner to increase the probability that the intended recipient will reply to the message received from the sender. The sender no longer has to guess whether the message was received and consumed by the intended recipient. MAP tracks messages sent via the communication services e.g. email service social networking service instant messaging service tweet blogging service MAP service SMS MMS Push to Talk and informs the sender about a delay or nondelivery of message. In some embodiments MAP is a proxy for all messages generated by the communication device . In other embodiments MAP is a proxy for messages generated by the communication devices and replies received from the intended recipients. A MAP agent executing on the communication device may reformat the communication message and includes an address for MAP as the care of address for the communication messages generated by the communication devices or addressed to the communication devices .

If the intended recipient s communication device is turned off when the electronic message sent via email service is received an auto reply may be sent to the MAP . If the electronic message is not delivered within a sender predetermined time frame the electronic message will be resent via the second third fourth etc. communication paths selected by the sender as alternates for the intended recipient. In some embodiment MAP may learn alternate communication paths for the intended recipient from the auto reply generated by the intended recipient s communication device .

BSC provides the communication devices access to the MAP . The BSC is connected to the MAP and antennae . BSC routes communications received from antennae . The MAP communications are routed to MAP by BSC .

Antennae provide an interface for receiving communications over the air from the communication devices . The antennae allow the senders to transmit the electronic messages to the intended recipients. Antennae are connected to BSC which routes the MAP electronic message to MAP .

Router provides an alternate interface for receiving communications from the communication devices . The router allows the senders to transmit the electronic messages to the intended recipients. Router is connected to MAP via the Internet . Router transmits the MAP electronic message to MAP . In some embodiments the communication devices may connect to the router wirelessly or via wires.

The foregoing description of the computing system was illustrative and was not intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention. One of ordinary skill in the art appreciates and understands that computing system has been simplified. Further embodiments of the invention may interface with numerous other computing systems.

Embodiments of the invention utilize a communication device to generate recallable electronic messages. The communication devices also receive the replies to the recallable electronic messages. The communication devices may include agents that provide several communication services e.g. email service social networking service instant messaging service tweet blogging service MAP service SMS MMS Push to Talk etc.

Memory A might take the form of computer storage media. Memory A may store records AA that store profile information for the communication device . Memory component A can include any type of medium that is capable of storing information in a manner readable by a computing device. Processor B might actually be multiple processors that receive instructions and process them accordingly. Presentation component C includes the likes of a display a speaker as well as other components that can present information such as a lamp LED or even lighted keyboards .

Radio D represents a radio that facilitates communication with a wireless telecommunications network. Illustrative wireless telecommunications technologies include CDMA GPRS TDMA GSM and the like. In some embodiments radio D might also facilitate other types of wireless communications including Wi Fi communications and GIS communications.

Input output port E might take on a variety of forms. Illustrative input output ports include a USB jack stereo jack infrared port proprietary communications ports and the like. Input output components F include items such as keyboards microphones touch screens and any other item usable to directly or indirectly input data into communication device . Power supply G includes items such as batteries fuel cells or any other component that can act as a power source to power communication device .

The communication device may take on a variety of forms such as a personal computer PC a laptop computer a wireless phone a personal digital assistant PDA or any other device that is cable of communicating messages to service providers or recipient devices. In some embodiments the communication device communicates over a wireless telecommunications network. In this regard the communication device communicates with other devices using a wireless telecommunications network.

The communication device is utilized to communicate messages to one or more recipient devices or recipients associated therewith via a service. As used herein a message refers to any message that can be communicated to a recipient or a recipient device e.g. via a service from the communication device or user associated therewith. A user can generate a message i.e. a user generated message using the communication device . In this regard a user can input a message by way of the communication device for example using voice text a stylus motion or any other means capable of inputting a message that is directed to one or more recipients.

A message might be for instance a voicemail message PTT message a social network message a text message a multimedia message an instant message an electronic message or the like. Messages can be communicated to a recipient s or a recipient device s via an appropriate service provider. A service provides message communication services for a user s . Among other things a service can facilitate delivery of messages from a user or user device to a recipient or recipient device. By way of example only a service may be a voice service a text message service a social network service an electronic message service an instant message service or the like. A voice service provides voice services to users. An exemplary voice service might be a wireless service provider such as Sprint AT T etc. A text message service provides text messaging services to users. An exemplary text message service might be a wireless service provider such as Sprint AT T etc. A social network service provides social networking services to users. An exemplary social network service might be for example Facebook MySpace Twitter etc. An electronic message service provides email services to users. An exemplary electronic message service might be for example Hotmail Gmail etc. An instant message service provides instant messaging services to users. An exemplary instant messaging service might be for example AOL Instant Messenger. As can be appreciated in some cases a service provider can provide more than one type of service. For example a wireless service may provide voice and text message services to users.

Referring to the drawings generally and to in particular an exemplary communication device for practicing embodiments of the invention is provided. It will be understood and appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the communication device shown in is merely an example of one suitable communication device and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the present invention. Neither should the communication device be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement related to any single component or combination of components illustrated therein. The single unit depictions are meant for clarity not to limit the scope of embodiments in any form.

MAP allows users to subscribe via the account manager . The account manager is configured to establish and manage user accounts associated with service providers. In this regard the account manager may obtain account data associated with pre existing user accounts established with the service providers. Account data refers to data associated with a user account i.e. an account established for a user that uses a service established with a service provider. For example assume the user has accounts with the social networking service provider the email service provider and the voice service provider . In this instance the account manager may be used to receive retrieve access identify or reference account data for each of the user accounts associated with such service providers. In some embodiments the user identifies MAP as a trusted service that shares personal information across several of the user s accounts. Account data may include for example a user identifier that identifies an account user e.g. a user name a user device identifier that identifies a device associated with an account user e.g. an IP address a mobile device number etc. a password for an account an account identifier that identifies a particular account or service provider thereof and or the like. Such account data might be input by a user for example via the communication device. Alternatively account data might be provided via the service provider or identified by the account manger .

In one embodiment a database may be used to store user account data in storage . For instance the data store may store an indication of a user account and account data e.g. user identifier and password associated therewith in connection with a particular user. The data store may store account data for any number of users. As discussed more fully below such account data can be referenced and thereafter used to obtain and or recall messages associated with a corresponding user account.

Accordingly the account manger allows the user to establish an account with MAP and link other communication accounts to MAP. The other communication accounts include voice accounts email accounts instant messaging accounts MMS accounts SMS accounts social networking accounts and the like. MAP may be a trusted server that stores existing account identifiers and passwords for the communication accounts. Optionally MAP may provide users the option to establish an interaction preference. The interaction preference specifies whether the users prefer interacting with MAP as an agent on the communication device or as an Internet web service that is accessible from any device.

MAP allows users to identify recipients of the recallable message via the control manager . Control Manager allows the user to establish a contact sequence and reply period. For instance the user may specify that urgent messages should be replied to by an intended recipient within 30 seconds. Also the user may specify via the control manager a number of different contact methods for the intended recipient. If the user has three contact methods for the intended recipient phone email social network and the user may specify a contact sequence for the intended recipient to be first phone second social network and third email. Thus if the user unsuccessfully attempts to call the phone of the intended recipient with an urgent MAP communication MAP will then forward the message to the social network contact for the user. If the user is unable to reach the intended recipient via the social network contact MAP forwards the message to the email contact of the intended recipient. MAP reports the success or failure of message delivery to the user. When MAP receives an indication that the intended recipient is unavailable or nonresponsive an alternate contact method is selected and if necessary the message is reformatted for delivery via the alternate contact method.

In some embodiments control manger stores contact information from each account registered with MAP in a contact database. In other embodiments users may provide MAP with access to the user s contact database. The contact database may be stored on the communication device. In one embodiment the contact database is stored at a remote location accessible by the control manager via uniform resource locator specified by the user. If required to access the contact information the contact manager identifier and password may be stored by the control manager .

Accordingly control manger may leverage accessibility to the various accounts and automatically synch contacts with the most recent contact information stored by the various accounts. In one embodiment the user will also be provided an option to manually synch contacts and communication methods across the various accounts and the contact database maintained by the control manager . The synched contact database is utilized by the control manager to enable the MAP user to specify the contact sequence for intended recipients with updated and accurate contact information.

MAP determines whether the intended recipient replied to the message via a parser . Parser extracts the reply from the response message received from the intended recipient. The reply may be generated via the social networking service email service SMS service etc. For instance the MAP may receive an auto reply from the intended recipient. In this case parser extracts information from the reply which may state I am unavailable until May 13. Please contact Bob at xxyz acme.corp. The parser may recognize new contact information included in the extracted information. In some embodiments the parser extracts the new contact information and may transmit the new contact to the control manager . In turn the control manager updates the contact database with the new contact.

Moreover the control manager may update the contact sequence for the intended recipient to include the new contact. In one embodiment the user positions the new contact in the desired position within the contact sequence. In an alternate embodiment the control manager places the new contact at the last position in the contact sequence. Accordingly the parser is able to extract the response from the replies in any format that it is received.

In some embodiments the message transmitted to the intended recipient may be recallable if the intended recipient did not read the message. The recall component is configured to manage messages transmitted by the user. For instance the recall component enables a user to manage messages generated via email service social networking service instant messaging service tweet blogging service MAP service SMS MMS Push to Talk and the like. MAP may recall the message when a response from the intended recipient is not received within a specified period of time e.g. 10 seconds.

In other embodiments MAP may continue generating messages within the contact sequence and recall previous messages that were sent using a different contact method once the contact sequence is exhausted. For example the contact sequence for an intended recipient may include SMS email and voicemail. MAP initially attempts delivery of the message via SMS. When as SMS reply is not received within a specified time period MAP transmits the message to the intended recipient via email. Similarly when an email reply is not received within a specified time period MAP transmits the message to the intended recipient via voice e.g. voicemail. If the intended recipient fails to respond to all the messages within a specified time period e.g. 90 seconds recall component recalls each message SMS email and voicemail sent to the intended recipient. The recall component removes the messages from the intended recipient s message box. The recall component manages messages sent via a voice service a text message service an email service and a social network service. In some cases the recall component may be a part of or hosted by one of the services or a network. In other cases the recall component may operate independent from the services and may reside on a wireless device etc.

MAP includes communication interfaces that connect to the network elements that provide the email service social networking service instant messaging service tweet blogging service MAP service SMS MMS Push to Talk and the like. The communication interfaces may include Ethernet or the like. The messages are transmitted over the communication interfaces . In turn the replies are received over the communication interfaces . Accordingly MAP may interface with the wireless devices and services to implement a recallable message delivery system.

MAP may include storage . The storage may be configured to store a contact database for each user that authorized MAP to store contacts for the intended recipients. In some embodiment the storage may store all contacts for the intended recipients a user may communicate with. In an alternate embodiment the storage may store only selected contacts for less than all of the intended recipients that the user communicates with. The storage may also store the contact sequence specified for the intended recipients. The storage may also include user preferences. The user may specify a preference to receive responses via SMS. Further the user may specify a reply period to be 30 seconds for an intended recipient. Alternatively the user may specify that a default reply period is 120 seconds. These types of preferences may be stored for each user in storage .

Moreover in some embodiments the messages generated by the user are stored in storage . By way of example the storage might store each message sent via one of the services when the user indicates the message should be recallable. For example the storage may store messages indicated as high priority messages of a particular type e.g. text message voice message email message messages communicated via a particular service messages sent at a particular time or within a particular time duration or the like. In other embodiments the storage may retain only a portion of the messages or data associated therewith that correspond with the user.

In other embodiments storage maintains a recall log that includes a history of actions taken with respect to the stored messages. The recall log can be accessible to a user for example via a user interface. In this regard a user can view message actions taken in connection with sent messages. For example a user may view which sent messages have been recalled view sent messages etc. In some cases even if a message is recalled with respect to an intended recipient the message may not be deleted from the message recall system such that the user can view the contents of previously sent messages or data associated therewith. A recall log may also include details regarding deletion of a message s . For example a recall log may include an indication of a success or failure of a recall a date and or time of a recall a recipient s for which the recall was successful or a failure whether a recipient s viewed a particular message etc.

In most embodiments MAP includes a transcoder that reformats the message. The transcoder may reformat the message for each communication method included in the contact sequence. For instance the contact sequence may include voice service email service SMS etc. The formats of the message between each contact method may be different. The user may provide a voice message initially but when a reply to the voice message is not received the transcoder reformats the voice message and sends the textual message via the email service. The email message generated by transcoder may include text that transcribes the content of the voice message. In one embodiment the email message may include an attachment that is the voice message. Moreover the SMS message generated by transcoder includes text transcribed from the voice message. If necessary the transcoder may truncate the text as necessary to comply with the requirements for an SMS messages. In some embodiments the user input may specify important parts of the message that should be retained by the transcoder when switching between formats.

The transcoder may reformat any message to a format supported by MAP . For instance the transcoder may provide text to voicemail SMS to email social networking to voicemail MMS to SMS MMS to email cropping resizing and the like. In some embodiments the transcoder may receive updates from existing service providers to support new formats. And the transcoder may receive new formats from new service providers that are added to MAP .

Accordingly MAP generates recallable messages for the users. The recallable messages are transmitted in various formats to the intended recipients. If the recipients are unresponsive the messages are recalled.

In one embodiment the communication device includes social network application SMS application MMS application email application blog application and push to talk application . These applications allow the user to generate various types of messages for transmission to one or more intended recipients. The social network application allows the user to generate messages on a social networking site. The message may include board messages instant messages or email message. The MMS application allows the user to generate multimedia messages that include video images etc. The email application allows the user to generate email messages. The blog application allows the user to provide blog messages. The push to talk application allows the user to send voice messages.

In some embodiments the communication device may also include a listener a renderer and MAP agent . The listener may intercept communications from the applications . The renderer may generate appropriate graphical user interfaces that allow the user to provide information regarding communication preferences. Also the renderer may provide an interface for generating messages or viewing replies recall logs etc. The MAP agent allows the communication device to interface with the MAP via bidirectional communication.

The listener may determine whether the user has initiated one of the applications to generate a message. For instance if the user initiates an email application the listener may intercept the request and trigger the renderer to display a graphical user interface that inquires whether the user wishes to transmit the message via MAP . If the user opts to deliver the email message via MAP the user may compose the email message via an interface provided by the email application . In turn the MAP agent obtains the message from the email application and communicates the message to the intended recipient via the MAP . The response may be received at MAP which determines whether the response should be transmitted to the communication device . If the response is an actual reply from the intended recipient MAP formats the reply in accordance with the preferences stored for the user and communicates the formatted reply to the communication device. The reply may be displayed via renderer or email application in accordance with the preferences selected by the user.

In some embodiments the user may select the MAP agent as the communication agent for all communication sent or received from the communication device. Alternatively the user may specify certain communication formats for the MAP agent . For instance the user may indicate that only voice and SMS communication messages should be MAP communications that are transmitted via MAP . Further the user may specify that the graphical user interface presented to the user for all MAP communications should be provided by renderer . Or the user may select to utilize the applications graphical user interface to generate messages and view replies. As an example the user may specify that MMS and social networking messages and replies should utilize the interface for MMS application and social networking application when generating the MAP messages and receiving the MAP replies.

Accordingly the user of the communication device may utilize the device in two modes normal or MAP. In normal mode the communications are routed to the intended recipients without consideration of the user preferences for delivery format graphical user interface preferences etc. In MAP mode the preferences established by the user are consulted to determine whether a MAP communication is desired. If so the appropriate graphical user interfaces are presented to generate a recallable message in the contact sequence established for the intended recipient.

MAP provides various graphical user interfaces to determine whether the user wishes to generate a normal message or a MAP message. If the user opts to select a MAP message the preferences established by the user are considered when generating the response contact sequence and communicating the reply. Further the MAP messages are recallable in the event that the intended recipient fails to respond within a specified period of time.

In some embodiments a graphical user interface that inquiry about the message preference format for a current communication may be presented to the user. The format may include any format supported by the MAP. In turn the user may select the desired message format for transmitting the message.

In yet another embodiment a graphical user interface that inquiries about the message preference format for a reply may be presented to the user. The format may include any format supported by the MAP. In turn the user may select the desired message format for receiving the reply message. The user may also be provided with a graphical user interface for specifying a reply period. Additionally an intercept graphical user interface may be provided when the listener on the communication device intercepts a normal communication.

A computer storage media may store instructions to execute a method for routing recallable message. In some embodiment the computer storage media may be a component of MAP. MAP receives a request to transmit a recallable message to an intended recipient. In turn delivery is attempted in accordance with the contact sequence for the intended recipient and the reply period for the user. Based on whether a response is received from the intended recipient an alternate communication mode is used to contact the recipient and the prior message sent via the previous communication mode is recalled.

In step MAP receives a response from the device of the intended recipient. The response is checked to verify that it was read by the intended recipient in step .

If the response was not from the intended recipient the method returns to step and the next available communication path specified in the contact sequence for the intended recipient is attempted. In some embodiments the contact sequence or delivery chain for the intended recipient may be specified by the sender or intended recipient. The contact sequence is used by MAP to select the next available communication path. In certain embodiments MAP may generate a notification to inform the sender of the current communication path where delivery is being attempted.

If the response was from the intended recipient in step MAP transmits the response to the sender. In turn if messages were sent via nonresponsive paths those messages may be recalled by MAP in step .

In an optional embodiment a method to deliver recallable messages to a recipient is executed by MAP. MAP may send a recallable message from a sender to a recipient. The recallable message may include an importance level. In turn MAP waits for a response from the recipient within a period of time. If no reply is received or an auto reply is generated MAP attempts delivery of the message on alternate communication paths associated with the recipient. In one embodiment the communication paths comprise telephony communication services and Internet communication services. In another embodiment the period of time that MAP waits is the same for each communication path. Alternatively the period time that MAP waits for each path is proportional to the ratio of the total time set by the sender and the number of available paths for the recipient. In turn MAP may reformat the message based on the message limitations associated with the selected communication path. If a reply that is not an auto reply is received MAP transmits the reply to the recipient.

In one embodiment the user halts a contact sequence. For instance a user may send an SMS message to an intended recipient. In turn while MAP is attempting the various communication paths the intended recipient may contact the user via a communication path not known new email phone etc neighbor s phone to the user. Because the user was able to successfully communicate with the intended recipient the user may stop the MAP from completing the contact sequence. In some embodiments MAP may display a graphical user interface to allow the user to select which of the transmitted messages to recall.

Users expect messages to be delivered in real time and have a lower tolerance for delays. Because of these expectations users maintain multiple paths in which they communicate with each other. Often these communications via the multiple paths occur simultaneously. MAP provides a system for allowing the user to coordinate communication among these multiple communication methods.

For instance a user may send an SMS to a friend for assistance with a car that has broken down. In this instance the user may request that the friend pick them up at a specific location. If the message is delayed or if their friend is not available the sender will typically not receive any feedback that this occurred. This could leave them in a situation where they wait an unnecessary amount of time before determining an alternate course of action.

MAP provides the necessary notification to the user of delivery success. MAP provides a system to generate recallable messages via the multiple communication paths known for the friend. The user s communication device may be configured to generate a recallable message in response to a request by the user to format one or more messages as recallable messages. In turn MAP which is communicatively coupled to the communication device receives a request to transmit a recallable message from the communication device. MAP notifies the user of delivery failures and successes. MAP attempts delivery of the recallable message on a first communication path of the multiple communication paths available for the friend. MAP may retry delivery of the recallable message on subsequent communication paths as specified in a contact sequence associated with the request or the friend. MAP may provide the user with a summary of the contact sequence for the friend and the current status of the delivery attempt. For instance MAP may inform the user that an email and SMS message were sent the times that those messages were sent the wait period associated with those messages whether those messages are recalled the type of reply received a summary of the reply and the current format of the delivery attempt. MAP may filter responses received from the friend before transmitting the response to the user. Moreover MAP may recall the recallable messages delivered to nonresponsive communication paths for the friend.

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the scope of the claims below. Embodiments of our technology have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of this disclosure after and because of reading it. Alternative means of implementing the aforementioned can be completed without departing from the scope of the claims below. Certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims. For example not all steps listed in the various figures need be carried out or need to be carried out in the specific order described.

