---

title: Method, system and mobile device employing enhanced user authentication
abstract: The described embodiments relate generally to methods and systems for user authentication for a computing device. In one embodiment, the method comprises: enabling receipt of input in relation to selection of a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use by the computing device to authenticate a user; and storing reference information identifying the selected plurality of authenticators in a memory of the computing device. The computing device may comprise a mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626501&OS=09626501&RS=09626501
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09626501
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20130415
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 019 923 filed on Jan. 25 2008. The entire contents of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 019 923 are hereby incorporated by reference.

The described embodiments relate to methods systems and mobile devices employing enhanced user authentication. In particular the described embodiments enable configuration of the mobile device for use of multiple different authenticators consecutively to allow authorized access to the mobile device.

For mobile devices and other computing devices authentication of a user for access to the mobile device or computing device is an important part of securing the device against unauthorized access to potentially sensitive data.

Some existing computer operating systems allow installation of multiple authenticators on the computer system so that when a user is authenticating the user s authority to access the computer the user can choose one of the installed authenticators to perform the authentication and thereby gain access to the computer system. In such operating systems each time the user wishes to authenticate itself to the computer system the user can choose a different authenticator from among the installed authenticators.

The existing computer operating systems described above only allow a single one of the authenticators to be chosen for performing the authentication of the user. If any one of the authenticators installed on the computer system is insecure this compromises the security of the entire system because an unauthorized user may be able to gain access to the computer system using the insecure authenticator.

The described embodiments relate generally to methods systems and mobile devices employing enhanced user authentication. Further embodiments relate generally to computing devices that employ enhanced user authentication. Mobile devices are used herein as one example of a type of computing device. The enhanced user authentication involves configuring the mobile device or other computing device to require authentication by the user using multiple consecutive authenticators.

The order of authentication may be selected by a user or system administrator during the authenticator configuration. Use of multiple authenticators in a predetermined order increases the security of the mobile device or other computing device by adding further authentication layers and thereby reducing the possibility of unauthorized access to the device.

Multiple authenticators may be installed on the mobile device. The authenticators may include for example smart card fingerprint handprint facial image retinal iris voice DNA and or other authenticators. Thus for example the user or system administrator may configure the mobile device to employ any of the multiple authenticators in combination in a specific order. If it is considered that a particular one of the authenticators is essential for optimizing security that authenticator can be used as part of a combination of authenticators. For example it may be specified by the system administrator that each mobile device must use a smart card authenticator together with one or more of the fingerprint handprint facial image retinal iris voice DNA and or other authenticators. Alternatively authenticator configuration may be done without reference to any of the authenticators being considered to be essential to the authentication procedure and the user may simply choose two or more of the installed authenticators to be used in combination.

Certain embodiments relate to a method for user authentication for a computing device. The method comprises enabling receipt of input in relation to selection of a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use by the computing device to authenticate access to the computing device or data stored therein and storing reference information identifying the selected plurality of authenticators in a memory of the computing device. The computing device may comprise a mobile device.

The input may be received in relation to a required authenticator selection and at least one optional authenticator selection. The input may be in relation to a selected order of consecutive use of the plurality of authenticators to authenticate access to the computing device or data stored therein and the storing may comprise storing order of use information in the memory that identifies the selected order. The plurality of authenticators may be selected from the group consisting of a smart card authenticator a fingerprint authenticator a handprint authenticator an iris authenticator a DNA authenticator a voice authenticator a retinal authenticator and a facial image authenticator.

The enabling may comprise launching an authenticator configuration application to display an authenticator configuration window on a display of the computing device and the authenticator configuration window may comprise a plurality of selectable authenticator options each selectable authenticator option corresponding to a respective one of the plurality of authenticators. The selectable authenticator options may be displayed in the authenticator configuration window to indicate an order of consecutive use of the plurality of authenticators and the selectable authenticator options can be displayed to indicate an alternative order of consecutive use of the plurality of authenticators in response to the input.

Other embodiments relate to a method of user authentication for a computing device. The method comprises determining that user authentication is required to be performed in relation to the computing device or data stored therein retrieving from a memory of the computing device reference information identifying a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use to perform the user authentication performing a first authentication using a first authenticator of the plurality of authenticators performing a next authentication using a next authenticator of the plurality of authenticators if the first authentication is successful and allowing access to the computing device or data stored therein if the next authentication is successful. The first and next authentications may be performed in a predetermined order based on the reference information. The plurality of authenticators may be selected from the group consisting of a smart card authenticator a fingerprint authenticator a handprint authenticator an iris authenticator a DNA authenticator a voice authenticator a retinal authenticator or a facial image authenticator.

Other embodiments relate to a method of user authentication for a computing device. The method comprises determining that user authentication is required to be performed in relation to the computing device or data stored therein retrieving from a memory of the computing device reference information identifying a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use to perform the user authentication performing a first authentication using a first authenticator of the plurality of authenticators performing a next authentication using a next authenticator of the plurality of authenticators and allowing access to the computing device or data stored therein if the first authentication is successful and the next authentication is successful.

Other embodiments relate to a computing device comprising a processor a display responsive to the processor at least one communication subsystem responsive to the processor for communicating with a plurality of authentication devices input componentry communicably coupled to the processor and a memory. The memory is accessible to the processor and stores program code which when executed by the processor causes the processor to enable receipt of input from the input componentry in relation to selection of a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use to authenticate a user and to store in the memory reference information identifying the selected plurality of authenticators. The plurality of authenticators may be selected from the group consisting of a smart card authenticator a fingerprint authenticator a handprint authenticator an iris authenticator a DNA authenticator a voice authenticator a retinal authenticator and a facial image authenticator.

The input may be received in relation to a required authenticator selection and at least one optional authenticator selection. The input may be further in relation to a selected order of consecutive use of the plurality of authenticators to authenticate the user and the processor may store order of use information in the memory that identifies the selected order.

In some embodiments when the program code is executed by the processor the processor is further caused to launch an authenticator configuration application to display an authenticator configuration window on the display wherein the authenticator configuration window comprises a plurality of selectable authenticator options each selectable authenticator option corresponding to a respective one of the plurality of authenticators. The selectable authenticator options may be displayed in the authenticator configuration window to indicate an order of consecutive use of the plurality of authenticators and the selectable authenticator options can be displayed to indicate an alternative order of consecutive use of the plurality of authenticators in response to the input.

The memory of the computing device may further store program code which when executed by the processor causes the process to determine that user authentication is required to be performed in relation to the computing device or data stored therein retrieve from the memory the reference information perform a first authentication using a first authenticator of the plurality of authenticators wherein the first authenticator is identified by the reference information perform a next authentication using a next authenticator of the plurality of authenticators if the first authentication is successful wherein the next authenticator is identified by the reference information and allow access to the computing device or data stored therein if the next authentication is successful. The first and next authentications may be performed in a predetermined order based on the reference information.

Still other embodiments relate to a computing device comprising a processor at least one communication subsystem responsive to the processor for communicating with a plurality of authentication devices and a memory accessible to the processor. The memory stores program code which when executed by the processor causes the processor to determine that user authentication is required to be performed in relation to the computing device or data stored therein retrieve from a memory of the computing device reference information identifying a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use to perform the user authentication perform a first authentication using a first authenticator of the plurality of authenticators perform a next authentication using a next authenticator of the plurality of authenticators if the first authentication is successful and allow access to the computing device or data stored therein if the next authentication is successful.

Alternatively the program code when executed by the processor may cause the processor to determine that user authentication is required to be performed in relation to the computing device or data stored therein retrieve from a memory of the computing device reference information identifying a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use to perform the user authentication perform a first authentication using a first authenticator of the plurality of authenticators perform a next authentication using a next authenticator of the plurality of authenticators and allow access to the computing device or data stored therein if the first authentication is successful and the next authentication is successful.

Further embodiments relate to computer readable storage storing program code which when executed by a processor in a computing device causes the processor to enable receipt of input in relation to selection of a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use to authenticate access to the computing device or data stored therein and to store in a memory reference information identifying a selected plurality of authenticators.

Still further embodiments relate to computer readable storage storing program code which when executed by a processor causes the processor to perform a method of user authentication comprising determining that user authentication is required to be performed in relation to a computing device or data stored therein retrieving from a memory of the computing device reference information identifying a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use to perform the user authentication performing a first authentication using a first authenticator of the plurality of authenticators performing a next authentication using a next authenticator of the plurality of authenticators if the first authentication is successful and allowing access to the computing device or data stored therein if the next authentication is successful.

Still further embodiments relate to computer readable storage storing program code which when executed by a processor causes the processor to perform a method of user authentication comprising determining that user authentication is required to be performed in relation to a computing device or data stored therein retrieving from a memory of the computing device reference information identifying a plurality of authenticators for consecutive use to perform the user authentication performing a first authentication using a first authenticator of the plurality of authenticators performing a next authentication using a next authenticator of the plurality of authenticators and allowing access to the computing device or data stored therein if the first authentication is successful and the next authentication is successful.

In some of the example embodiments described the smart card authenticator may be a required authenticator for example to comply with corporate or government security requirements and thus the mobile device smart card and card reader are described in further detail below with reference to to contextualize some of the possible applications of the described embodiments.

System includes multiple authentication devices in communication with mobile device over a wired or wireless interface. Card reader and memory card effectively act as an authentication device . In some embodiments the card reader may comprise or be associated with a biometric scanner as another authentication device . Such authentication devices include one or more wireless enabled personal computers and at least one wireless enabled mobile device . Each of the authentication devices may have a wireless transceiver for communicating with mobile device which also has a wireless transceiver over a communication link or . In an alternative embodiment one or more of the authentication devices may be in communication with mobile device via a wired connection such as a universal serial bus USB cable.

The mobile device may be any suitable wirelessly enabled mobile device. The mobile device may be a dual mode data and voice communication device and personal digital assistant device such as is described in further detail below in relation to . Alternatively the mobile device may be a single mode data communication device. The mobile device may be capable of email communication. The user of mobile device is required to authenticate the user s identity for use of the mobile device for example by providing a password or a personal identification number PIN code or other authentication methods as described herein for example to unlock a user interface of mobile device to digitally sign a message or to decrypt an encrypted message.

Authentication devices may comprise any kind of suitably secure authentication device such as a retinal iris voice DNA facial image handprint and or fingerprint scanner which may be communicably coupled to or comprised in a portable or fixed computer system which may require access to memory card . While not specifically shown in each authentication device is enabled for wireless and or wired communication either by itself or via an associated computer system with mobile device and or card reader in a manner compatible with the communication capabilities of mobile device and or card reader described below in relation to .

Memory card may be a smart card. Smart cards generally refer to personalized security devices defined by the ISO 7816 standard and its derivatives as published by the International Organization for Standardization. A smart card may have a form factor of a credit card and may include a semiconductor device. The semiconductor device may include a memory that can be programmed with security information for example such as a private decryption key a private signing key biometrics information or an authentication certificate. The semiconductor device may include a decryption engine such as a processor and or dedicated logic circuitry for performing decryption and or authentication functions. The smart card may include a connector for powering the semiconductor device and performing serial communication with an external device such as card reader .

Smart cards generally have exposed contacts on one surface of the card for establishing electrical contact with corresponding contacts on the card reader thereby facilitating communication between the smart card and the card reader. In one embodiment memory card and card reader use electrical contact to establish communication therebetween. Although memory card may be physically received in card reader it is not essential that card reader physically receive or contact memory card in order to establish communication therebetween. For example in an alternative embodiment memory card may interface with card reader using radio frequency identification records RFID technology. In such an alternative embodiment the memory card need only be sufficiently proximate to card reader to enable radio frequency communication therebetween.

Mobile device may be enabled to communicate with a wireless network . The wireless network may be implemented as a packet based cellular network that includes a number of base stations each providing wireless Radio Frequency RF coverage to a corresponding area or cell. For example the wireless network could conform to one or more of the following among other network standards Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC Global System for Mobile Communication GSM General Packet Radio System GPRS Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN or various other third or higher generation networks such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS etc.

In some embodiments instead of or in addition to a wireless wide area network the wireless network may include a wireless local area network such as for example a wireless local area network that conforms to one or more IEEE 802.11 standards such as 802.11b 802.11g and 802.11n. In at least some example embodiments the wireless network is connected through intermediate communications links not shown including for example links through the Internet to one or more enterprise networks not shown . Typically such enterprise networks are each associated with a set of respective mobile devices such that the mobile devices are each enabled to exchange electronic messages and other information with the enterprise networks with which the mobile devices are associated.

The mobile device may further comprise peripheral devices and or subsystems. Such peripheral devices and or subsystems may include for example as a flash memory a random access memory RAM an auxiliary input output I O subsystem e.g. a scroll wheel trackball joystick directional pad touch screen or other navigational component a serial port e.g. a Universal Serial Bus or USB port an input device a speaker a microphone a mobile device short range communications subsystem and or an other device subsystem designated generally by reference . The short range communication subsystem may comprise for example an infrared transceiver wireless bus protocol system such as Bluetooth and or other means of local wireless communications. The input device may comprise for example a keyboard a keypad and or a touch screen. The touch screen may be used in combination with a stylus.

The mobile device microprocessor operates under stored program control with code or firmware being stored in the flash memory or other type of non volatile memory device or devices . As depicted in the flash memory includes stored programs e.g. firmware including an operating system program or code module and other programs or software applications indicated generally by reference . The software applications can for example include a World Wide Web WWW browsing application and an e mail client application .

According to example embodiments the software applications of the mobile device further include a memory card driver that may be used in conjunction with the card reader which is described in more detail below in connection with . Notably the memory card driver may be provided not by the manufacturer of the mobile device but instead by a third party e.g. the manufacturer of the memory card . Furthermore an Application Programming Interface API may be built in to the memory card driver to allow the mobile device to communicate with the memory card through the card reader .

The software applications of the mobile device may further include a smart card reader SCR pairing and security module for coordinating a pairing process between the mobile device and the card reader . The roles of the memory card driver and the smart card reader pairing and security module will be described in greater detail below.

The operating system code code for specific device applications code for the WWW browsing application code for the e mail client application code for the memory card driver or code for the smart card reader pairing and security module may be temporarily loaded into a volatile storage medium such as the RAM during operation of the mobile device . Received communication signals and other data with information may also be stored in the RAM . In some embodiments the mobile device may include in addition to the internal flash memory persistent memory carried on a SIM Subscriber Identity Module card or other removable device and at least some of the flash memory may be allocated to the SIM card flash memory.

The stored program control i.e. the software applications for the mobile device microprocessor also includes a predetermined set of applications code components or software modules that control basic device operations for example data and voice communication applications which are normally installed on the mobile device as the software applications during the manufacturing process. Further applications may also be loaded i.e. downloaded onto the mobile device through the operation of networks described above the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port or the mobile device short range communications subsystem . The downloaded code modules or components are then installed by the user or automatically in the RAM or the non volatile program memory e.g. the flash memory .

The serial port comprises a USB type interface port for interfacing or synchronizing with another device such as a desktop or notebook computer not shown . The serial port is used to set preferences through an external device or software application. The serial port is also used to extend the capabilities of the mobile device by providing for information or software downloads including user interface information to the mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. In one embodiment the serial port may be used to communicate with card reader .

The mobile device short range communications subsystem provides an interface for communication between the mobile device and other devices including the card reader to be described in greater detail in connection with below. For example the mobile device short range communications subsystem may employ an infrared communication link or channel or may operate according to a wireless bus protocol such as Bluetooth or any other localized wireless means of communication.

The card reader may further comprise an output device e.g. a display module . The card reader may further comprise peripheral devices or subsystems such as a flash memory a random access memory RAM which in some embodiments includes a portion allocated to a data cache a serial port e.g. a USB port a smart card reader short range communications subsystem e.g. an infrared transceiver wireless bus protocol system using a protocol such as a Bluetooth a storage component interface e.g. for a memory card or any other data storage device a pairing activation input device e.g. a push button and optionally a biometric input device e.g. a fingerprint sensor .

The smart card reader microprocessor operates under stored program control with code or firmware being stored in the flash memory or other type of non volatile memory device or devices . As depicted in the stored programs e.g. firmware include an operating system program or code module and other programs or software applications indicated generally by reference . The operating system of the card reader further includes a biometric matching software component and a memory card reader driver component .

The biometric matching software component is used to analyze or compare candidate biometrics scanned by the biometric input device as one form of authentication device in reference to stored biometric templates.

The memory card reader driver component is responsible for coordinating communications between the card reader and a memory card and or the memory card driver of the mobile device via wired or wireless communication link .

The operating system code code for specific device applications code for the biometric matching software component code for the memory card reader driver component or code components thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile storage medium such as the RAM . Received communication signals and other data may also be stored in the RAM . Additionally the storage component interface receives the removable memory card providing additional storage space for the card reader .

In one embodiment the memory card stores biometric templates and has a card driver and controller responsible for coordinating communications between the memory card and the memory card reader driver component of the smart card reader . While operation of the card reader is described in a context wherein the memory card is a smart card it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the card reader may be designed to operate with any suitable form of memory device.

The stored program control i.e. software applications for the smart card reader microprocessor may include a predetermined set of applications code components or software modules that control basic device operations for example management and security related control of the data of the card reader and may be installed on the card reader as a component of the software applications during the manufacturing process. Further applications may also be loaded i.e. downloaded onto the card reader through the operation of the serial port the smart card reader short range communications subsystem or from the memory card . The downloaded code module or components are then installed by the user or automatically in the RAM or non volatile program memory e.g. the flash memory .

While the biometric matching software component and the memory card reader driver component are shown to be an integrated portion of the operating system for security purposes e.g. because individuals should not be permitted to tamper with the biometric matching software component or the memory card reader driver component the biometric matching software component and or the memory card reader driver component could be installed as one of the software applications so long as suitable security related precautions are taken to ensure that the biometric matching software component and the memory card reader driver component cannot be modified or tampered with by unauthorized users.

The serial port may be a USB type interface port for interfacing or synchronizing with another device such as a desktop computer not shown or the mobile device . The serial port is used to set preferences through an external device or software application or exchange data with a device such as the mobile device which data is stored on the memory card that is plugged into the storage component interface of the card reader . The serial port is also used to extend the capabilities of the card reader by providing for downloads to the card reader of information or software including user interface information.

The short range communications subsystem provides an interface for communication between the mobile device and the card reader . In one embodiment the short range communications subsystem employs an infrared communication link or channel. In another embodiment the short range communications subsystem operates according to a wireless RF bus protocol such as Bluetooth . However the short range communications subsystem may operate according to any suitable local wired or wireless communication protocol so long as the short range communications subsystem of the mobile device can operate using the same protocol thereby facilitating wireless communication between the mobile device and the card reader . Any communications mechanism and or protocol may be implemented for the short range communications subsystems so long as the mobile device and the card reader can communicate with each other when within physical proximity.

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram illustrating program code modules stored in flash memory in greater detail in the context of their functions and interactions with other components of mobile device and with one or more authentication devices . As shown in flash memory comprises program code modules executable by microprocessor to provide a user authenticator framework a plurality of authentication applications and and a user interface module . Each authentication application performs a specific authentication function depending on the type of authenticator it is functionally associated with.

User authenticator framework comprises an application that governs user authentication application and and ensures that authentication of the user is carried out properly and securely. User authenticator framework enables authentication configuration to establish which authenticators are to be used during the user authentication process. User authenticator framework may be considered to effectively comprise an authentication configuration application or module or sub routine for this purpose although such an application is not specifically shown in .

User authenticator framework stores and retrieves reference information that identifies the authenticators selected during configuration so that when subsequent attempts to access the mobile device or secure data therein need to have their access authority authenticated the user authenticator framework can identify and call upon the appropriate two or more of the authentication applications and to perform their respective authentication functions.

For example authentication application may perform a smart card authentication function and therefore may employ the memory card driver and SCR pairing and security module while authentication application may be comprised of a program code for enabling mobile device to communicate with an external authentication device such as a retinal scanner. Alternatively or in addition one of the authentication applications such as authentication application may communicate with an external authentication device for example embodied as smart card reader in communication with memory card to authenticate a user based on input received at a biometric input device such as the fingerprint sensor which may be processed by the biometric matching software component and compared with biometric templates .

Authentication applications and may be installed during configuration of mobile device or subsequently. Although three authentication applications are shown in for illustrative purposes it will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that two or more authentication applications may be installed for use on mobile device .

Each authentication application and is specifically adapted to cooperate with mobile device and the appropriate components of the authentication device to which they are functionally connected or associated. As used herein the term authenticator is intended to comprise a respective authentication application in cooperation with an authentication device .

When executing any of the authentication applications microprocessor communicates with the relevant authentication devices via a communication subsystem of mobile device . Communication subsystem is communicably coupled to microprocessor and authentication devices . Communication subsystem may comprise for example serial port short range communication subsystem wireless network communication subsystem and or any other component or subsystem of mobile device that is capable of communicating with a device external to mobile device .

In some embodiments the authentication application or may perform very few if any authentication functions where such functions are performed by the authentication device and or the user authentication framework . In such embodiments the authentication application may merely receive and interpret an output from the authentication device and pass this onto the user authentication framework which will then determine whether authentication using the relevant authenticator has been successful. In alternative embodiments most of the functions of the authenticator may be performed by the authentication application possibly in combination with the user authentication framework and the authentication device may be primarily an input device for gathering biometric information such as a retinal fingerprint or facial image scan and passing this information on to the relevant authentication application.

User interface module communicates with user authenticator framework in order to generate suitable visual displays on display system including displaying an authentication configuration window as described below in relation to based on information provided by user authenticator framework . User interface module is employed in combination with user authenticator framework to perform authenticator configuration as described below in relation to and once the configuration has been performed to perform user interface functions associated with the authentication process as described below in relation to .

In the context of the user authentication process and or authenticator configuration process user interface module interprets user input received for example via input componentry of mobile device that is communicably coupled to microprocessor and provides the interpreted user input to user authenticator framework for authentication and or configuration purposes. User interface module also provides appropriate graphical displays on display subsystem to request user input or notify the user of the success or failure of a part or whole of the authentication process. Input componentry may comprise keyboard auxiliary input output serial port microphone and or other device subsystem .

Referring now to a method of user authenticator configuration is described in further detail with reference to authenticator configuration window . Method begins at step at which authenticator configuration window is displayed on display sub system . Authenticator configuration window may be displayed as a result of user selection of an appropriate menu option or by clicking on an application icon or as part of a set up wizard for example.

At step the user of mobile device is allowed to select from among the multiple authenticators for which authentication applications are installed on the mobile device . As part of step the user is also allowed to select an order of use of the authenticators for example by re ordering a list of the available and or selected authenticators. The manner of re ordering the list of authenticators will depend on the particular user interface functionality provided by mobile device and it will be understood that re ordering of the list may be accomplished in a number of different ways that would be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example where user interface functionality permits an authenticator in list may be dragged and dropped into another part of the list . Alternatively a menu option such as move authenticator up list or move authenticator down list may be provided in relation to each authenticator in the list allowing it to be moved up or down the list . By default the authenticator at the top of the list may be used first during the authentication process and the order of subsequent authentication may follow the descending order of the list . Instead of the list of authenticators the authenticators may be visually organized or presented in an alternative manner such as in a group or cluster.

Selection of the multiple authenticators in step can be effected in a number of different ways depending on the particular user interface functionality provided by mobile device . For example where the available authenticators are set out as items in a group or list selection or de selection of an authenticator may be effected by clicking on a corresponding selectable authenticator option or item or in list . Each item in the list or group may have a selection status indicator such as a graphically toggling icon like a check box check circle button or a word Yes or No or symbol Y or N to indicate whether the authenticator is selected or not selected.

The selection status indicator may be graphically distinct from the written text description of the authenticator comprised in each list or group item or or it may be integrated therewith. For example the check box may be considered to be graphically distinct but a halo bolding color inversion or other form of emphasis that is integrated with the written text may be used instead as a selection status indicator.

Once the user selection and ordering of the authenticators at step is complete the user can explicitly or implicitly save the selected configuration which triggers storage of reference information identifying the selected authenticators and the selected order of authentication at step . Explicit saving of the selected configuration may occur for example by selecting a save menu option while authenticator configuration window is displayed or by selecting a save option on a pop up window displayed in response to a user request to exit the authenticator configuration window . Implicit saving may occur for example whenever a selection deselection or order change is made or may occur if the window is exited without an explicit save.

The reference information identifying the selected authenticators and the order of authentication may be stored in any suitable data format in a record or table within flash memory so as to be accessible to user authenticator framework .

In some embodiments one or more of the authenticators in list may be a required authenticator and thus may be displayed in authenticator configuration window as being constantly selected and may not be unselected. Other authenticators may be optional in the sense that none of them is specifically required to be used as part of the authentication process although at least one of the optional authenticators must be selected to be used in combination with the required authenticator. In alternative embodiments two or more of the authenticators may be selected from the list without any requirement as to which of the authenticators must be included in the selection.

Referring now to a method of user authentication is described. Method begins at step at which the user authentication framework determines whether user authentication is required for example where the mobile device is requested by a user to be accessed or where the user is required to be authenticated to access sensitive information stored on mobile device .

Once the user authentication framework determines that authentication is required in order to access mobile device or data stored therein user authentication framework retrieves the reference information previously stored at step relating to the user selected authenticators and their selected order of use at step . From the retrieved reference information user authentication framework identifies which authenticator is to be used first in the authentication process and which one or more further authenticators are to be used next.

At step user authentication framework cooperates with the appropriate authentication application or corresponding to the first authenticator and the appropriate authentication device to perform a first part of the user authentication. The specific authentication procedure for each authenticator may be as described herein or as known to those skilled in the art.

In some embodiments of method at step user authentication framework determines whether the authentication at step was successful and if so determines at step whether further user authentication is required. As the embodiments described herein generally perform authentication using multiple different authenticators authenticator framework will usually initiate authentication using the next authenticator at step . If no further authentication is required at step and step was successful then user authentication framework proceeds to allow access to the computing device or data stored therein at step . If authentication at step was not successful then at step user authentication framework interacts with user interface module to provide a non authentication message on display subsystem .

In some embodiments determining whether authentication at step was successful in step may be performed in the background while process flow continues to the next step without requiring the determining to be complete. In other words the determining in step may be executed in parallel with the next step rather than in series. Once the determining in step is complete if the authentication was unsuccessful process flow may jump to step and a non authentication message is provided.

At step user authentication framework determines whether the authentication using the next authenticator at step was successful. If the authentication at step was not successful then a non authentication message is displayed at step . If the authentication at step was successful then at step user authentication framework determines whether any further user authentication is required. If further user authentication is required then steps to are performed with respect to the further user authentication. Otherwise user authentication is considered by user authentication framework to be complete and the mobile device is unlocked at step .

In alternative embodiments step may be omitted and determination at steps and of whether the authentication of each authenticator was successful may be performed after authentication input has been received for all authenticators. In such embodiments the order of performance of step and step as described above is reversed.

In addition to unlocking the mobile device at step user authentication framework may cooperate with user interface module to provide some kind of notification to the user to the effect that authentication was successfully completed although the mere fact of unlocking the mobile device may be sufficient indication to the user that authentication was successful.

Although not specifically shown in user authentication framework may record each event in which authentication at step or was not successful in order to determine whether access to mobile device or sensitive data stored therein is being sought by an unauthorized user. Further user authentication framework may store any input that is received during the failed authentication attempts as such information may help to identify the unauthorized user.

While the above description describes the example embodiments in some detail it will be appreciated that some features and or functions of the described embodiments are susceptible to modification without departing from the spirit and principles of operation of the described embodiments. Accordingly what has been described above is intended to be illustrative of the disclosure and non limiting.

As used herein the wording and or is intended to represent an inclusive or. That is X and or Y is intended to mean X or Y or both. Moreover X Y and or Z is intended to mean X or Y or Z or any combination thereof.

