---

title: System and method for customizing analytics based on users media affiliation status
abstract: A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to generate customized search results as well as metrics, such as aggregated sentiment, counts of targets or sources or citations, or aggregated gross impressions or exposure, of social media content items over a social network while discriminating between the perspectives of individuals from the media and individuals not from the media. This approach can be used to generate search results and/or metrics including only media perspectives, or excluding media perspectives. More specifically, while social media content items are retrieved from corpus based on certain search criteria, for the purpose of providing search results or providing aggregated metrics, the search criteria can include a media or non-media filter, which is applied to the authors posting social media content to exclude or include certain authors meeting media/non-media criteria. For the application of a non-media filter, content from media authors can be excluded, or ranked below content from non-media authors. Similarly, for a media filter, content from non-media authors can be excluded, or ranked below content from media authors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454586&OS=09454586&RS=09454586
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09454586
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130328
---
This application is a continuation in part of current copending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 161 857 filed Jun. 16 2011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 355 912 and 61 355 937 all filed Jun. 17 2010. U.S. application Ser. No. 13 161 857 is also a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 7 991 725 issued Aug. 2 2011 a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 8 244 664 issued Aug. 14 2012 and a continuation in part of current copending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 628 791 filed Dec. 1 2009. All of the above identified applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 617 524 filed Mar. 29 2012 and entitled Social Analysis System and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 618 474 filed Mar. 29 2012 and entitled GEO Tagging Enhancements and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Knowledge is increasingly more germane to our exponentially expanding information based society. Perfect knowledge is the ideal that participants seek to assist in decision making and for determining preferences affinities and dislikes. Practically perfect knowledge about a given topic is virtually impossible to obtain unless the inquirer is the source of all of information about such topic e.g. autobiographer . Armed with more information decision makers are generally best positioned to select a choice that will lead to a desired outcome result e.g. which restaurant to go to for dinner . However as more information is becoming readily available through various electronic communications modalities e.g. the Internet one is left to sift through what is amounting to a myriad of data to obtain relevant and more importantly trust worthy information to assist in decision making activities. Although there are various tools e.g. search engines community boards with various ratings there lacks any indicia of personal trustworthiness e.g. measure of the source s reputation and or influence with located data.

Currently a person seeking to locate information to assist in a decision to determine an affinity and or identify a dislike can leverage traditional non electronic data sources e.g. personal recommendations which can be few and can be biased and or electronic data sources such as web sites bulletin boards blogs and other sources to locate sometimes rated data about a particular topic subject e.g. where to stay when visiting San Francisco . Such an approach is time consuming and often unreliable as with most of the electronic data there lacks an indicia of trustworthiness of the source of the information. Failing to find a plethora or spot on information from immediate non electronic and or electronic data source s the person making the inquiry is left to make the decision using limited information which can lead to less than perfect predictions of outcomes results and can lead to low levels of satisfaction undertaking one or more activities for which information was sought.

Current practices also do not leverage trustworthiness of information or stated differently attribute a value to the influence of the source of data e.g. referral . With current practices the entity seeking the data must make a value judgment on the influence of the data source. Such value judgment is generally based on previous experiences with the data source e.g. rely on Mike s restaurant recommendations as he is a chef and Laura s hotel recommendations in Europe as she lived and worked in Europe for 5 years . Unless the person making the inquiry has an extensive network of references from which to rely to obtain desired data needed to make a decision most often the person making the decision is left to take a risk or roll the dice based on best available non attributed non reputed data. Such a prospect often leads certain participants from not engaging in a contemplated activity. Influence accrued by persons in such a network of references is subjective. In other words influence accrued by persons in such a network of references appear differently to each other person in the network as each person s opinion is formed by their own individual networks of trust.

Real world trust networks follow a small world pattern that is where everyone is not connected to everyone else directly but most people are connected to most other people through a relatively small number of intermediaries or connectors . Accordingly this means that some individuals within the network may disproportionately influence the opinion held by other individuals. In other words some people s opinions may be more influential than other people s opinions.

As referred to herein influence is provided for augmenting reputation which may be subjective. In some embodiments influence is provided as an objective measure. For example influence can be useful in filtering opinions information and data. It will be appreciated that reputation and influence provide unique advantages in accordance with some embodiments for the ranking of individuals or products or services of any type in any means or form.

Another issue facing an online user is the difficulty to search for content or retrieve metrics that actually addresses his her problem from his her own perspective or from someone whose opinion the user values highly. Even when the user is able to find the content that is relevant to address his her problem such content is most likely to be of one size fits all type that addresses concerns of the general public while does not target at the specific need of the user as an individual. Although some online vendors do keep track of web surfing and or purchasing history or tendency of a user online for the purpose of recommending services and products to the user based on such information such online footprint of the user is only passively gathered or monitored which often does not truly reflect the user s real intention or interest. Therefore there is a need for search results and metrics customization from a user s perspective.

In addition the user may not be able to recognize whether the content is from a creditable source or what the experts think of it. Therefore there is a need to identify sources of relative expertise in the field of the user s interest and from the user s perspective.

The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

The approach is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. It should be noted that references to an or one or some embodiment s in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to generate customized search results as well as metrics such as aggregated sentiment counts of targets or sources or citations or aggregated gross impressions or exposure of social media content items over a social network while discriminating between the perspectives of individuals from the media and individuals not from the media. Here media perspectives or individuals from the media could be defined as individuals who are associated with any professional new reporting agency or outlet. Media perspectives could also be broadened to include popular bloggers or celebrities. More specifically once the social media content items are retrieved from a social network based on certain search criteria the media affiliation status of authors of all the content items retrieved are identified via various means. The media affiliation status maybe defined as whether or not the author is affiliated to a media source such as a professional news reporting agency or outlet. The identified media affiliation status of the content items can then be utilized to generate a customized search results and metrics from the perspective of non media authors by removing or down ranking content items from authors who have been identified as media affiliation authors from the search result or calculated metrics. With such an approach the result is biased towards posts or reports from individuals on the ground who may be in a better position to provide accurate first hand witness account on the social network about events happening in real time rather than those from professional news agencies who often rely on delayed second hand information or sources. Similarly a query for media results can be applied by giving preference to media affiliation authors content over non media author content or excluding non media author content.

This approach can be used to generate search results and or metrics including only media perspectives or excluding media perspectives. Media perspectives or individuals from the media could be defined as individuals who are associated with any professional new reporting agency or outlet. Media perspectives could also be broadened to include popular bloggers or celebrities.

As referred to hereinafter a social media network or social network can be any publicly accessible web based platform or community that enables its users members to post share communicate and interact with each other. For non limiting examples such social media network can be but is not limited to Facebook Google Twitter LinkedIn blogs forums or any other web based communities.

As referred to hereinafter a user s activities content items on a social media network include but are not limited to citations Tweets replies and or re tweets to the tweets posts comments to other users posts opinions e.g. Likes feeds connections e.g. add other user as friend references links to other websites or applications or any other activities on the social network. Such social content items are alternatively referred to hereinafter as citations Tweets or posts. In contrast to a typical web content which creation time may not always be clearly associated with the content one unique characteristics of a content on the social network is that there is an explicit time stamp associated with the content making it possible to establish a pattern of the user s activities over time on the social network.

An illustrative implementation of systems and methods described herein in accordance with some embodiments includes a citation graph as shown in . In the example of the citation graph comprises a plurality of citations each describing an opinion of the object by a source subject . The nodes entities in the citation graph are characterized into two categories 1 subjects capable of having an opinion or creating making citations in which expression of such opinion is explicit expressed implicit or imputed through any other technique and 2 objects cited by citations about which subjects have opinions or make citations. Each subject or object in graph represents an influential entity once an influence score for that node has been determined or estimated. More specifically each subject may have an influence score indicating the degree to which the subject s opinion influences other subjects and or a community of subjects and each object may have an influence score indicating the collective opinions of the plurality of subjects citing the object.

In some embodiments subjects representing any entities or sources that make citations may correspond to one or more of the following As discussed hereinafter each source or subject can be but is not limited to an internet author or user of social media services.

In some embodiments objects cited by the citations may correspond to one or more of the following Internet web sites blogs videos books films music image video documents data files objects for sale objects that are reviewed or recommended or cited subjects authors natural or legal persons citations or any entities that are or may be associated with a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or any form of product or service or information of any means or form for which a representation has been made.

In some embodiments the links or edges of the citation graph represent different forms of association between the subject nodes and the object nodes such as citations of objects by subjects . For non limiting examples citations can be created by authors citing targets at some point of time and can be one of link description keyword or phrase by a source subject pointing to a target subject or object . Here citations may include one or more of the expression of opinions on objects expressions of authors in the form of Tweets blog posts reviews of objects on Internet web sites Wikipedia entries postings to social media such as Twitter or Jaiku postings to websites postings in the form of reviews recommendations or any other form of citation made to mailing lists newsgroups discussion forums comments to websites or any other form of Internet publication.

In some embodiments citations can be made by one subject regarding an object such as a recommendation of a website or a restaurant review and can be treated as representation an expression of opinion or description. In some embodiments citations can be made by one subject regarding another subject such as a recommendation of one author by another and can be treated as representing an expression of trustworthiness. In some embodiments citations can be made by certain object regarding other objects wherein the object is also a subject.

In some embodiments citation can be described in the format of subject citation description object timestamp type . Citations can be categorized into various types based on the characteristics of subjects authors objects targets and citations themselves. Citations can also reference other citations. The reference relationship among citations is one of the data sources for discovering influence network.

In the example of the system includes at least citation search and analytics engine influence evaluation engine and object subject selection engine . As used herein the term engine refers to software firmware hardware or other component that is used to effectuate a purpose. The engine will typically include software instructions that are stored in non volatile memory also referred to as secondary memory . When the software instructions are executed at least a subset of the software instructions is loaded into memory also referred to as primary memory by a processor. The processor then executes the software instructions in memory. The processor may be a shared processor a dedicated processor or a combination of shared or dedicated processors. A typical program will include calls to hardware components such as I O devices which typically requires the execution of drivers. The drivers may or may not be considered part of the engine but the distinction is not critical.

In the example of each of the engines can run on one or more hosting devices hosts . Here a host can be a computing device a communication device a storage device or any electronic device capable of running a software component. For non limiting examples a computing device can be but is not limited to a laptop PC a desktop PC a tablet PC an iPod an iPhone an iPad Google s Android device a PDA or a server machine. A storage device can be but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash memory drive or any portable storage device. A communication device can be but is not limited to a mobile phone.

In the example of citation search and analytics engine influence evaluation engine and object subject selection engine each has a communication interface not shown which is a software component that enables the engines to communicate with each other following certain communication protocols such as TCP IP protocol over one or more communication networks not shown . Here the communication networks can be but are not limited to internet intranet wide area network WAN local area network LAN wireless network Bluetooth WiFi and mobile communication network. The physical connections of the network and the communication protocols are well known to those of skill in the art.

In the example of citation search and analytics engine enables a citation search process which unlike the classical web search approaches that is object target centric and focuses only on the relevance of the objects to the searching criteria the search process adopted by citation search and analytics engine is citation centric focusing on influence of the citing subjects that cite the objects. In addition the classical web search retrieves and ranks objects based on attributes of the objects while the proposed search approach adds citation and subject author dimensions. The extra metadata associated with subjects citations and objects provide better ranking capability richer functionality and higher efficiency for the searches.

In some embodiments the citation search query request processed by citation search and analytics engine may accept and enforce various criteria terms on citation searching retrieving and ranking each of which can either be explicitly described by a user or best guessed by the system based on internal statistical data. Such criteria include but are not limited to 

In the example of influence evaluation engine calculates influence scores of entities subjects and or objects wherein such influence scores can be used to determine at least in part in combination with other methods and systems the ranking of any subset of objects obtained from a plurality of citations from citation search results.

In some embodiments some subjects authors who create the citations can be related to each other for a non limiting example via an influence network or community. The influence network of a user includes subjects that are connected to the user either directly or indirectly through other sources e.g. friend s friends . In some embodiments influence evaluation engine constructs a scored subject list of a user by flattening the user s influence network of sources subjects contacts up to a given number of degrees levels depth where each item on the list is a subject source. The influence evaluation engine assigns a score to each of the subjects on the list to reflect the subject s potential influence on the user and or the closeness of its connection with the user.

In some embodiments the influence network of a user can be private which is only accessible by the user once he she authenticates him herself to the system. No other party may obtain search results from a user s perspective if the user keeps his her network private.

In some embodiments the influence network of a user can be open to public such as a user s connections visible on social networking sites of Facebook and MySpace . Consequently any interested party may get access to the user s influence network of connections in order to obtain search results from that user s perspective instead of his her own. For a non limiting example a user may look at the same issue from the perspectives of different parties whose opinions the user trusts or values highly.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine calculates the influence score of a subject based on the one or more of 

In some embodiments the influence evaluation engine may calculate the influence score of the subject on the user as the influence weighted sum of the number of the paths from the subject to the user wherein the weight of each path may be inversely adjusted by the length of the path. For a non limiting example if there are two paths from the subject of user specific influence of 6 to the user with lengths of 2 and 3 respectively the influence score of the subject on the user can be calculated as 6 5.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine measures influence and reputation of subjects that compose the plurality of citations citing the plurality of objects on dimensions that are related to for non limiting examples one or more of the specific topic or objects e.g. automobiles or restaurants cited by the subjects or form of citations e.g. a weblog or Wikipedia entry or news article or Twitter feed or search terms e.g. key words or phrases specified in order to define a subset of all entities that match the search term s in which a subset of the ranked entities are made available based on selection criteria such as the rank date or time or geography location associated with the entity and or any other selection criteria.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine determines an influence score for a first subject or source at least partly based on how often a first subject is cited or referenced by a another second subject s . Here each of the first or the second subject can be but is not limited to an internet author or user of social media services while each citation describes reference by the second subject to a citation of an object by the first subject. The number of the citations or the citation score of the first subject by the second subjects is computed and the influence of the second subjects citing the first subject can also be optionally taken into account in the citation score. For a non limiting example the influence score of the first subject is computed as a function of some or all of the number of citations of the first subject by second subjects a score for each such citation and the influence score of the second subjects. Once computed the influence of the first subject as reflected by the count of citations or citation score of the first subject or subject can be displayed to the user at a location associated with the first subject such as the profile page of the first subject together with a list of the second subjects citing the first subjects which can be optionally ranked by the influences of the second subject.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine optimizes the estimation of influence for different contexts and requirements of performance memory graph topology number of entities and or any other context and or requirement by any combination of the operations described above in paragraphs above and any similar operations involving metrics including but not limited to values comprising the number of potential source entities to the entity for which influence is to be estimated the number of potential target entities the number of potential directed paths between any one entity and any other entity on any or all given dimensions the number of potential directed paths that include the entity the number of times within a defined period that a directed link from the entity is used for a scoring search or other operation s .

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine computes relative expertise of a subject as a measure of the subject s expertise in a topic relative to a larger population of multiple sources and subjects. Here the relative expertise of the subject is a function of the share of the subject s citations matching the query term relative to the share of all subjects citations matching the query term weighted by the influence of subjects. This allows the identification of experts on topics without any pre defined categorization of topics or pre computation of expertise enabling determination of expertise on any query term in real time.

In some embodiments influence evaluation engine may adopt a semantic graph of related terms which allows the match to query term used for computing the relative expertise of the subject to be broader than a match of the query term itself. With such a semantic graph influence evaluation engine regards a match to a query term have been made possibly with a different match score if a match is made for other terms in the semantic graph that are close to the query term. for a non limiting example ibuprofen and terfenadine may both match medicine and each other via the semantic graph so if the query term is ibuprofen citations matching medicine or terfenadine can be considered along with citations matching the query term ibuprofen itself.

In the example of object subject selection engine utilizes influence scores of the citing subjects on the scored subject list of the user and the number of their citations to determine the ranking and selection of objects from the user s perspective in combination with other ranking criteria that include but are not limited to influence scores of the citing subjects date or time geographical location associated with the objects and or any other selection criteria. More specifically object subject selection engine ranks the objects appearing in the search result based on a ranking function that takes into consideration the perspective influence scores of the subjects of each matching citation where the perspective influence scores can be obtained from the user s subject list for those citing subjects that are on the list. If a subject of a matching citation does not appear on the user s subject list however object subject selection engine assigns a low score to the citation during ranking.

In the example of the flowchart starts at block where citation searching retrieving and ranking criteria and mechanisms are set and adjusted based on user specification and or internal statistical data. The flowchart continues to block where a plurality of citations of objects that fit the search criteria such as text match time filter author filter type filter are retrieved. The flowchart continues to block where a list of subjects is created from a user s perspective and the influence scores of the subjects on the user are calculated. The flowchart continues to block where the list of subjects is used as a bias filter to rank the objects of the plurality of citations from the user s perspective. The flowchart ends at block where objects are selected as the search result for the user based on the matching of the objects with the searching criteria as well as the influence scores of the citing subjects on the user.

In some embodiments object subject selection engine determines the qualities of the cited objects by examining the distribution of influence scores of subjects citing the objects in the search results. For a non limiting example one measure of the influence distribution is the ratio of the number of citations from the influential and the non influential subjects where influential subjects may for a non limiting example have an influence score higher than a threshold determined by the percentile distribution of all influence scores. Object subject selection engine accepts only those objects that show up in the citation search results if their citation ratios from influential and non influential subjects are above a certain threshold while others can be marked as spam if the ratio of their citation ratios from influential and non influential subjects fall below the certain threshold indicating that they are most likely cited from spam subjects.

In some embodiments object subject selection engine calculates and ranks cited objects by treating citations of the objects as connections having positive or negative weights in a weighted citation graph. A citation with implicit positive weight can include for a non limiting example a re tweet or a link between individual blog posts or web cites while a citation with negative weight can include for a non limiting example a statement by one subject that another source is a spammer.

In some embodiments object subject selection engine uses citations with negative weights in a citation graph based rank influence calculation approach to propagate negative citation scores through the citation graph. Assigning and propagating citations of negative weights makes it possible to identify clusters of spammers in the citation graph without having each spammer individually identified. Furthermore identifying subjects sources with high influence and propagating a few negative citations from such subjects is enough to mark an entire cluster of spammers negatively thus reducing their influence on the search result.

In some embodiments object subject selection engine presents the generated search results of cited objects to a user who issues the search request or provides the generated search results to a third party for further processing. In some embodiments object subject selection engine presents to the user a score computed from a function combining the count of citations and the influence of the subjects of the citations along with the search result of the objects. In some embodiments object subject selection engine displays multiple scores computed from functions combining the counts of subsets of citations and the influence of the source of each citation along with the search result where each subset may be determined by criteria such as the influence of the subjects or attributes of the subjects or the citations. For non limiting examples the following may be displayed to the user 5 citations from Twitter 7 citations from people in Japan and 8 citations in English from influential users. The subsets above may be selected and or filtered either by the object subject selection engine or by users.

In some embodiments object subject selection engine selects for display of every object in the search result one or more citations and the subjects of the citations on the basis of criteria such as the recency or the influence of their citing subjects relative to the other citations in the search result. Object subject selection engine then displays the selected citations and or subjects in such a way that the relationship between the search result the citations and the subjects of the citations are made transparent to a user.

In the example of object subject selection engine may alternatively utilize the scored subject list of a user for the ranking and selection of subjects instead of objects from the perspective of the user who conducts the search or any other subject entity including in a non limiting example any subject entity chosen by the user to provide people search or expert search functionality. Here for people expert search the search results for a query are the subjects of citations matching the query rather than objects of the citations weighted by among other factors the relative expertise of the subjects. As discussed above the relative expertise reflects the subject s interest or expertise in a certain topic or subject thus making the subject eligible as a candidate in the people search for experts.

The flowchart continues to block where a list of subjects is created from the user s perspective and the influence scores of the subjects on the user are calculated. In some embodiments influence evaluation engine may construct the scored subject list of the user by flattening the user s network of sources subjects contacts up to a given number of degrees levels depth where each item on the list is a subject source e.g. user author and the score reflects the subject s potential influence or closeness of its connection relation with the user. The influence evaluation engine may calculate the closeness score based on the number and length of paths in a network from the user to that subject.

The flowchart continues to block where the list of subjects is used as a bias filter to rank the subjects of the plurality of citations from the user s perspective. In some embodiments object subject selection engine may remove citations from subjects outside the user s subject list from the search result or ranked such citations lower in the search result. More specifically object subject selection engine may rank the subjects appearing in the search result based on a ranking function that takes into consideration the above described perspective closeness scores of the subjects of each matching citation on the user as well as the relative expertise score of the subjects in the result. If a subject in the search result does not appear on the user s subject list object subject selection engine may assign a lower score to the citations from the subject and therefore to the subject itself during ranking. With such closeness and relative expertise weighted citation scores subject that have a high degree of closeness to the user and a high relative expertise on the query term will be ranked prominently thus biasing from the user s perspective the people expert search results based on relative expertise on the query term. Consequently due to the bias or filter a search with identical terms may yield different search results for different users. The flowchart ends at block where subject are selected as the search result for the user based on the influence scores and or the relative expertise of the citing subjects.

In some embodiments object selection engine supports media identification to classify and distinguish individual authors of social media citations or content items originated from commercial news sources media authors . By filtering out commercial and news sources object selection engine is able to generates selected content items and the objects they cited from the perspective of individuals non media authors on the ground. Here a media user can be but is not limited to one of professional reporting and news agency such as a newspaper or broadcasting company. A user s activities content items on a social media network include but are not limited to citations Tweets replies and or re tweets to the tweets posts comments to other users posts opinions e.g. Likes feeds connections e.g. add other user as friend references links to other websites or applications or any other activities on the social network. Such social content items are alternatively referred to hereinafter as citations tweets or posts.

In some embodiments object selection engine uses a whitelist and a trained probabilistic media type classifier either separately or in combination to assign each user author of a content item either as a media type or non media type. In some embodiments object selection engine derives the initial whitelist from a public list of social media sources and their respective verified accounts which classify the users owners of those accounts as either media type or non media type authors. The whitelist can grow organically on an ongoing basis as more information about the types of the users are collected. In some embodiments object selection engine can utilize an archive of historical content items posts with clear media type identifications as a training set to train the probabilistic media type classifier. Once trained the media type classifier can then be used to predict the media types of each of the content items with high accuracy. For a non limiting example if the media type classifier has been trained by the historical archive to recognize a specific user author as a media type then the media type classifier may identify any retrieved content item citation authored by the specific user also as from a media author.

In some embodiments object selection engine may review the profile of the user author of a content item as well as historical post information by the same user to intelligently identify media news source type the user belongs to. Some of the attributes and features of the user s information being reviewed by object selection engine include but are not limited to 

Once the media types of the citations content items are identified object selection engine can utilize such information to generate a customized search results from the perspective of one or more non media type authors. In some embodiments object selection engine may remove citations from subjects authors who have been identified as media type authors from the search result or ranked such citations lower in the search result. More specifically If the author subject of a content item citation in the search result has been identified as a media type author object selection engine may assign a lower score to the citations from the subject during selection and or ranking of the search results. With such an approach citations content items from ordinary individuals who are not associated with any professional media outlet will be selected and ranked prominently thus biasing the search result towards non media type author s perspective.

One embodiment may be implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor s programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art. Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

One embodiment includes a computer program product which is a machine readable medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program one or more hosts to perform any of the features presented herein. The machine readable medium can include but is not limited to one or more types of disks including floppy disks optical discs DVD CD ROMs micro drive and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data. Stored on any one of the computer readable medium media the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose specialized computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human viewer or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems execution environments containers and applications.

The foregoing description of various embodiments of the claimed subject matter has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the claimed subject matter to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Particularly while the concept interface is used in the embodiments of the systems and methods described above it will be evident that such concept can be interchangeably used with equivalent software concepts such as class method type module component bean module object model process thread and other suitable concepts. While the concept component is used in the embodiments of the systems and methods described above it will be evident that such concept can be interchangeably used with equivalent concepts such as class method type interface module object model and other suitable concepts. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best describe the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the relevant art to understand the claimed subject matter the various embodiments and with various modifications that are suited to the particular use contemplated.

