---

title: Method, system and software product for the measurement of heart rate variability
abstract: The invention relates to a method, system, and software product for measuring heart rate variability. The method comprises instructing a user when to breathe in and breathe out, receiving a signal from a sensor responsive to the heart beat of the user, processing the received signal to determine heart beat intervals of the user and calculating a measure of heart rate variability of the user from the processed heart beat intervals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09265430&OS=09265430&RS=09265430
owner: 
number: 09265430
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130827
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 565 717 filed Sep. 23 2009 and entitled Method System and Software Product for the Measurement of Heart Rate Variability now pending which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 143 265 filed Jan. 8 2009 and entitled Method for Convenient Daily Measurement of Heart Rate Variability. The disclosure of each patent application identified above is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Portions of the documentation in this patent document contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention is in the technical field of cardiac and autonomic nervous system function monitoring in human beings. More particularly the present invention is in the technical field of Heart Rate Variability HRV measurements in human daily life.

Heart Rate Variability HRV is based on the measurement of the time difference between each heartbeat i.e. the beat to beat variability when processed using time domain frequency domain or other measures as described in Heart rate variability Standards of measurement physiological interpretation and clinical use published 1996 Task Force of The European Society of Cardiology and The North American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology hereinafter referred to as Task Force and elsewhere. Each R wave of the P Q R S T sequence in ECG terminology represents a forceful contraction of the heart and creates the pulse. The time difference between beats is known as the R R interval. The beat to beat variability is affected by stimulation from the autonomic nervous system on the heart. The autonomic nervous system has two branches that usually work in an antagonistic manner the sympathetic nervous system SNS that stimulates internal organs in preparation for fight or flight behavior and the parasympathetic nervous system PNS that is associated with relaxation and allows humans to rest and digest . The higher the level of PNS activity the greater the freedom from physiological and psychological stress the person is experiencing. A good way to observe PNS activity non invasively is to examine changes in heart rate in response to breathing. Heart rate increases during inhalation and decreases during expiration. This effect is known as respiratory sinus arrhythmia RSA and the changes in heart rate depend on breathing rate and depth among other variables . High levels of PNS activity as measured via RSA indicate that the person is exhibiting a freedom from physiological and psychological stress. High parasympathetic HRV is known to be cardioprotective in the sense that persons with consistently high measurements of this parameter are less likely to suffer potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmia than persons with lower values. This principle may be used to measure relative changes in the effect of physical or mental stressors on an individual when their HRV is measured on a frequent e.g. daily basis as described below in relation to one aspect of the invention.

The analysis and use of heart rate variability measurements has been established for more than 40 years and has proven to have diagnostic and prognostic value in many clinical applications including but not limited to state of recovery following acute heart attack work related stress level assessment and fetal distress. Heart rate variability has also been used retrospectively to examine the impact of exercise and training that have already been performed by athletes sedentary users and patients with existing cardiovascular disease.

At the current time HRV is conventionally measured according to the Guidelines stated by the Task Force by capturing ECG data gathered over periods ranging from 5 mins to 24 hrs using a clinical ECG apparatus or for longer periods a Holter recorder. The captured signals are first digitized and then processed using a frequency domain transformation in order to separate the markers of the two separate branches of the autonomic nervous system. In particular the so called High Frequency band defined as 0.15 Hz to 0.4 Hz is associated with the parasympathetic vagal branch of the autonomic nervous system. The Task Force recommends short term recordings of 5 min made under physiologically stable conditions processed by frequency domain methods. A frequency domain transformation e.g. Fast Fourier Transform is recommended by the Task Force to have at least 512 data points in order to allow the accurate determination of power within the High Frequency band. This means in practice gathering approximately 6 9 mins of data for persons with resting pulse rates in the range 60 80 bpm. Interpolation of a lower number of data samples e.g. 400 may also be used but this still results in practical measurements of 5 minutes.

1. Correlation between i the current state of cardiovascular fitness and recovery in an individual and ii activity level of the parasympathetic vagal branch of the autonomic nervous system observed conventionally via power level of HF modulation HF power in a frequency domain transformation of heart beat interval R R data under consistent environmental and physiological conditions.

2. Mathematically proven and empirically confirmed relationship between time domain measured RMSSD and the more often used frequency domain measured HF power recommended by the Task Force. RMSSD ms is the Root Mean Square Successive Difference i.e. the square root of the mean of the sum of the squares of differences between adjacent normal RR intervals from short term recordings or from an entire 24 hour electrocardiogram recording. This time domain measure strongly reflects PNS modulation and has also been shown to be mathematically equivalent to the Poincare SD1 measure times 1.414. The RMSSD measure has mainly been replaced in studies during the last 10 years by frequency domain analyses since the latter give a more complete insight from the R R interval data into the workings of multiple branches of the ANS. Nonetheless the RMSSD time domain measure can give faster accurate results when only the activity of the PNS is desired to be known.

3. High degree of correlation and predictive accuracy of ultra short term e.g. 30 sec versus more usual short term 5 min or greater RMSSD measurements. Reference Accuracy of ultra short heart rate variability measurements Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society 2003 Proceedings of the 25th Annual International Conference of the IEEE. For example the Task Force recommends short term RMSSD measurements.

5. When possible use of a static standing position for measurement taking avoiding supine saturation effects that can otherwise reduce the range of observed HRV measurements especially in athletic individuals.

6. Recommendation to the user to take the daily measurement at about the same time each day to further reduce variability in this case caused by time of day induced circadian HRV variation.

The invention provides a method system and computer software product for measuring heart rate variability of a user. As a first aspect of the invention the invention provides a method of measuring heart rate variability of a user comprising instructing the user when to breathe in and breathe out receiving a signal from a sensor responsive to the heart beat of the user processing the received signal to determine heart beat intervals of the user and calculating a measure of heart rate variability of the user from the processed heart beat intervals.

As a second aspect of the invention the invention provides a method of measuring heart rate variability of a user comprising instructing the user to breathe in and breathe out at predetermined times receiving a signal from a sensor responsive to the heart beat of the user processing the received signal to determine heart beat intervals and calculating a measure of heart rate variability from the processed heart beat intervals using a time domain processing method.

As a third aspect of the invention the invention provides a method of awakening a sleeping user based on measuring heart rate variability comprising receiving a signal from a sensor responsive to the heart beat of the user processing the received signal to determine heart beat intervals calculating a first measure of heart rate variability of the user from the processed heart beat intervals while the user is awake calculating a second measure of heart rate variability of the user from the processed heart beat intervals while the user is asleep computing the difference between the second measure and the first measure and generating an awakening stimulus to the user when the difference exceeds a predetermined threshold.

As a fourth aspect of the invention the invention provides a system for measuring heart rate variability of a user comprising means for instructing the user when to breathe in and breathe out means for receiving a signal from a sensor responsive to the heart beat of the user means for processing the received signal to determine heart beat intervals of the user and means for calculating a measure of heart rate variability of the user from the processed heart beat intervals.

As a fifth aspect of the invention the invention provides a computer software product comprising coded instructions for executing a computer process in a digital processor which computer process generates a measure of heart rate variability. The computer process comprises managing instructing a user when to breathe in and breathe out inputting processed heart beat intervals wherein the processed heart beat intervals are output by a signal processing means and the input of the signal processing means comprises a signal received by a receiving means from a sensor responsive to the heart beat of the user and calculating a measure of heart rate variability of the user from processed heart beat intervals.

As a sixth aspect of the invention the invention provides a computer software product comprising coded instructions for executing a computer process in a digital processor which computer process manages generating an awakening stimulus to a sleeping user by managing the measurement of heart rate variability. The computer process comprises inputting processed heart beat intervals wherein the processed heart beat intervals are output by a signal processing means and the input of the signal processing means comprises a signal received by a receiving means from a sensor responsive to the heart beat of the user calculating a first measure of heart rate variability of the user from the processed heart beat intervals while the user is awake calculating a second measure of heart rate variability of the user from the processed heart beat intervals while the user is asleep computing the difference between the second measure and the first measure and managing generating an awakening stimulus to the user when the difference exceeds a predetermined threshold.

The present invention comprises an improved method and system for taking processing and presenting HRV measurements. The present invention captures signals generated by electrocardiographic for example chest strap ECG or other sensor of heart rate activity or blood pressure finger earlobe wrist or other sensors in order to generate a heart rate variability index for example RMSSD or other time domain measure more quickly with higher repeatability and less need for training or expert instruction than previous methods.

The present invention collects processes and displays HRV readings derived from electrocardiographic sensor data over a variable period while the user wears one of a plurality of sensors and breathes in a deep and controlled manner.

1. Use of very short term 1 min or less versus more usual longer term 5 min or greater HRV measurements

3. Suggestion to the user via a number of possible methods including on screen display instructions or separate reference card printed instructions or automated alarm clock function within the portable device itself to take the measurement at about the same time each day to further reduce variability in this case caused by time of day circadian induced HRV variation.

The above aspects provide an improved level of repeatability and convenience for periodic HRV measurements compared to current HRV measurement techniques in particular the ability to use a mobile device to obtain an almost instant reliable and repeatable reading for example 1 min is much shorter than conventional measurements taking at least 5 mins and possibly much longer which can then be compared against measurements taken days weeks months or even years previously in order to gain insight on short medium and long term HRV trends and fulfill a need for personal longitudinal data logging.

Referring now to there is shown one general exemplary functional embodiment of a system for measuring heart rate variability of a user . The user may put on a sensor for example a commercial chest ECG sensor strap. An animation that indicates to the user when to breathe in and breathe out may be shown on display function for example an LCD display forming part of for example a handheld portable device . Animation may be displayed by hardware and or software known in the art for example display generation software and hardware within device . Alternatively display function may be realized by any suitable type of display that comprises part of a portable or non portable device or it may be a self contained display device connected by wire or wirelessly to device not shown in . The signal from sensor may be processed by receiver function for example to demodulate the sensor signal and convert it to a digital format. Receiver function may be realized in hardware and or software known in the art for example a receiving antenna in hardware followed by A D conversion filtering and demodulation in software and or hardware. The output of receiver function may be processed by signal processor function for example to reliably generate heart beat intervals for HRV calculation by HRV calculator . Signal processor function may be realized in hardware and or software for example by a counter timer function in software and or hardware. HRV calculator may be realized in hardware and or software for example by software running on a digital CPU special purpose digital hardware or a combination of software and hardware.

In one embodiment of the present invention animation may indicate to the user to breathe in for a count of S1 for example S1 3 seconds and out for a count of S2 for example S2 5 seconds with this sequence to be repeated 4 or more times within a measurement time window.

In some embodiments a first sound for example the sound of advancing ocean waves may be generated for example by device to indicate to the user when to breathe in and a second sound for example the sound of retreating ocean waves may be generated by hardware and or software known in the art for example by software running on a digital CPU special purpose hardware or a combination of software and hardware within device to indicate to the user when to breathe out. Alternatively these sounds may be generated by external functions connected to device not shown in .

In some embodiments sensor may be closely attached to or within device . In these embodiments device may for example be placed on the skin or clothing of the user by the user or another individual for example a medical technician.

In some embodiments the signal from sensor may be connected by wire to device . Alternatively the signal from sensor may be connected wirelessly to device in these embodiments receiver function signal processor function and HRV calculator function may comprise part of device . Alternatively receiver function and or signal processor function and or HRV calculator function may be external to device . Receiver function and or signal processor function and or HRV calculator function may for example be realized by one or more physical modules that plug in to device using connectors and signaling protocols known in the art. Functions may all be realized in one physical module or in many modules e.g. should not be understood to imply a one to one mapping between functions and physical modules.

In some embodiments for example in embodiments where one or more of functions are external to device analog and or digital connections of types known in the art shown by dashed lines in may convey signals back and forth among the subset of functions that are external to device and among each other as appropriate to exchange the information necessary to carry out the functions of processing stages . The connections represented by dashed lines in may be realized using any number of wired conductors or wireless links and may employ multiplexing techniques to minimize the number of such conductors and or links as known in the art. Dashed lines are shown as bidirectional in to include the exchange of control and or intermediate results of processing calculations as appropriate between processing stages and device however the basic heart rate information processing sequence is from sensor to receiver function to signal processor function to HRV calculator function . In some embodiments where both the signal processor function and the HRV calculator function are external to device the output of signal processor function may be connected to both the HRV calculator function and directly to device for example so that processed heart beat intervals may be conveyed to device as well as to HRV calculator function .

In some embodiments synthesized audio may instruct the user for example on how to place the sensor and or when to breathe in and breathe out and or when the measurement is complete. In some embodiments the synthesized audio may also deliver the results of measurements and or computations to the user . Synthesized audio may be generated by hardware and or software known in the art for example by a combination of software running on a digital CPU and D A conversion hardware within device . Alternatively these sounds may be generated by external functions connected to device not shown in .

In some embodiments audible commands and or responses may be received from the user . For example the user may say start to cause the system to begin a HRV measurement. Audible input may be recognized by hardware and or software known in the art for example by a combination of A D conversion hardware and software running on a digital CPU and within device . Alternatively these sounds may be received and or recognized by external functions connected to device not shown in .

Referring now to in one exemplary embodiment there is shown the frontal view of a user who is in a static standing up orthostatic position preferred for taking a heart rate variability measurement. The user may first put on either a commercial chest ECG sensor strap not part of the present invention which may use for example 5.3 kHz amplitude modulated inductive transmission techniques to send ECG signals to the resonant antenna . Due to the use of inductive transmission the resonant antenna has to be in close proximity 

The received signal in antenna may consist of bursts of 5.3 kHz amplitude modulation at a level of a few millivolts mV so the inductor and capacitor values should be appropriately chosen to be resonant at this frequency. Alternatively just an inductor instead of the resonant circuit may be used but the antenna efficiency and therefore useful working range of the transmission will be reduced. The received signal may be amplified by high gain amplifier before being converted to the digital domain by analog to digital converter . The latter should have dynamic range of at least 8 bits and sample rate at least twice the received signal bandwidth to avoid aliasing Nyquist criterion . In one embodiment processing stages and are provided by the microphone input of for example the mobile device .

Once digitized the signal for example in case of origination from a commercial ECG chest strap may be bandpass filtered with center frequency of 5.3 kHz in filter . Since the received signal is amplitude modulated the envelope of the signal may be recovered by demodulator . This may be achieved for example by conventional full wave rectification and low pass filtering. The successive rising edges of the resulting demodulated signal may then be used to start and stop a counter timer which according to Task Force guidelines should have measurement precision better than 2 ms. In order to prevent false triggering from noise signals ectopic beats or non ECG coding signals in the chest strap transmission the counter timer may run for a minimum of 500 ms before it is allowed to be reset. This exemplary value is chosen under the expectation that a user taking readings in the preferred stationary standing position would have a heart rate lower than 120 beats per minute. In one embodiment processing stages are performed by hardware and or software modules within mobile device .

The output from counter timer is a series of consecutive R R Interval RRI values measured in milliseconds ms with a new value being sent to statistical processor about once per second equivalent to the heart rate of the user normally around 60 beats per minute. In statistical processor in one exemplary embodiment the Root Mean Squared Successive Difference RMSSD may be calculated according to a conventional formula 

Alternatives to RMSSD are pNN50 the probability of any NN normal to normal RR after exclusion of irregular beats interval difference exceeding 50 ms and the SD1 parameter of the cluster Poincare plot D plot of adjacent R R intervals as described in the Task Force paper references for time domain heart rate variability measures.

In the embodiment of processing stages may represent an example of a more detailed functional representation of the receiver function processing stage may represent an example of a more detailed functional representation of the signal processor function and processing stages may represent an example of a more detailed functional representation of the HRV calculator . Any subset of functions may be implemented internally to device . Alternatively any subset of functions may be implemented externally to device . In one embodiment antenna may be external to device while functions may be internal to device .

Referring now to there is shown one exemplary functional embodiment of the system for measuring heart rate variability. Heart rate related signals may be received from a sensor for example sensor via an antenna . These signals may be amplified by an amplifier not shown in for example amplifier before being converted to digital form by an analog to digital converter A D which may comprise the A D converter in some embodiments. Alternatively A D converter may receive heart rate related signals from a sensor for example sensor via connection which may comprise for example a cable. In some embodiments connection may be bisected by amplification and or filtering not shown in between the sensor end of connection and the A D converter end of connection . A D converter may also convert analog audio signals from an audio transducer for example microphone for example in embodiments where the user interface includes speech recognition capability. The digitized sensor signals may be received by central processor CPU . CPU may be controlled by instructions stored in a portion of the address space of memory . In some embodiments CPU may further process the digitized sensor signals for example by filtering as described previously with reference to block and by demodulating as described previously with reference to block . In some embodiments CPU may detect heart rate intervals by implementing a counter timer type function for example as described previously with reference to block . CPU may perform heart rate variability calculations for example the RMSSD calculations as described previously with reference to block . CPU may store and or recall intermediate and or final results of the heart rate variability processing using memory . CPU may for example prompt for user input and or generate instructions to the user and or display results to the user using display which may comprise display or in some embodiments. CPU may receive user input via control panel which may comprise control panel in some embodiments. In some embodiments CPU may generate sounds for example to indicate to the user when to breathe in and breathe out as previously described using digital to analog D A converter and speaker . Alternatively sounds may be provided to earphones . Instructions to the user may also be given for example by software running on CPU by retrieving digitized speech from memory and generating analog speech sounds using D A and speaker .

It is important when processing heart rate variability signal measurements to be able to detect irregular R R intervals caused by multiple sources including ectopic beats missing beats originating from the heart and transmission errors between for example the chest strap and the wireless receiver . Such irregular R R intervals can cause significant errors and distortion in the final calculation result leading to incorrect decisions. A series of R R intervals processed to remove irregularities is known as an N N interval series. The gold standard for such processing includes a review of the data by an experienced electrocardiographic ECG technician.

In some embodiments the present invention includes a method for automating the periodic measurement of HRV and thus in these embodiments there is no opportunity for manual review of the measured R R intervals. This necessitates the inclusion of more sophisticated means of detection of R R intervals that are likely to be invalid. This process is assisted by the fact that the current movement status standing still and breath state i.e. exhaling or inhaling following for example a lungs animation of the user is known.

In some embodiments irregular R R intervals may be excluded from the HRV calculations e.g. the RMSSD calculations of processor according to the method illustrated in In at steps and if at any time the measured R R interval is either shorter than 500 ms or longer than 1800 ms that R R interval may be excluded at step on the basis that it is not a reasonable value for a human being in the standing position. Irregular intervals may be excluded by hardware and or software for example by software running on digital CPU and or special purpose counter timer hardware for example a hardware realization of function .

During inhalation as identified at step the autonomic nervous system parasympathetic branch of the user withdraws stimulation with the consequence that the R R interval is shortened. Since the method for example as previously described with reference to includes a controlled breathing pattern beats that are longer than the average R R interval taken which may be calculated over one or more complete breath cycles during inhalation may be identified at step and excluded at step . In practice an additional margin shown as x in step may be included to allow for the fact that the user s breathing may not be perfectly synchronized with e.g. the lung animation of .

During exhalation as identified as not inhalation at step a maximum allowed difference between adjacent R R intervals can also be predicted by knowing the average R R interval taken over one or more complete breath cycles during the measurement. This is possible because the parasympathetic sympathetic balance also controls the standing pulse rate. A formula has been determined empirically from observations on multiple users whereby the maximum permitted R R interval difference may be related to the square of the mean R R interval measured in milliseconds divided by a constant for example 12000. Therefore R R intervals not conforming to Max allowed adjacent interval difference mean interval 12000 may be identified at step and excluded at step . In some embodiments the measurement sequence may include preliminary breathing cycles during which the mean R R interval is calculated before the HRV calculation begins so that non valid R R intervals may be excluded right from the start. Intervals not identified for exclusion according to the preceding criteria are included in the HRV calculations e.g. the RMSSD calculations of processor at step .

In the case that a user has a temporarily irregular heart rhythm such as palpitations Atrial Fibrillation or SupraVentricular Tachycardia this may lead to a number of excluded intervals according to the set of rules outlined in the previous paragraphs. In case the number of such excluded beats exceeds a predefined threshold e.g. 5 during the measurement sequence then the measurement will be terminated and the user informed of the reason and instructed to retake the measurement after some period of time. This is in order to prevent incorrect readings from contaminating the calculation of longitudinal averages and other statistical measures upon which recommendations may be based.

Referring again to and now to the interaction between the invention and the user the measurement may first be initiated using the controls which may be buttons touch screen or other suitable method provided for example on portable device in . shows the user interface displayed on a mobile phone or other personal device with similar processing and display capabilities during and at the conclusion of the measurement. During an HRV measurement indicator may prompt the user to breathe in and then out in a controlled manner and for predefined time periods in each breathing phase using a graphical animation e.g. a pair of expanding lungs as shown in or using sounds or other stimuli as described in earlier paragraphs. The overall breathing frequency should be low enough not to significantly alter the amplitude of the HRV measurements.

Heart shaped indicator may be displayed on display and pulse according to the output of demodulator in to show the user that a valid heart rate signal is being received from sensor or . Potential problems include a weak signal caused by excessive distance between sensor or and receiver coil or poor placement or contact of the sensor or . In this case the user may be informed by on screen for example instructions to make the necessary adjustments.

At the conclusion of an HRV measurement numeric indicator may show the average heart rate in beats per minute a measurement also derived from demodulator in and a reading with which most users will be familiar. This provides further confirmation of a good received signal and provides additional basic heart rate monitor functionality. Indicator may show the calculated RMSSD value output from block which is updated on display every time a new valid RR Interval is processed. The raw RMSSD value may be further processed in order to derive a scale with benefits for end users and medical personnel. For instance a logarithm e.g. the natural logarithm of the RMSSD value may be taken and multiplied by a scale factor e.g. 20 to generate a HRV index these operations may be realized in hardware and or software for example by software running on CPU special purpose digital hardware or a combination of software and hardware using techniques known in the art. This results in a scale with approximate maximum 100 for humans with very high heart rate variability such as elite athletes and close to 0 for a heart rhythm with no short term variability such as may be found in a denervated or paced heart or a subject in a mental state of coma. It also means that changes over a period of time result in constant numeric additive or subtractive offset values independent of starting number. This can be very useful for comparing the impact of stressful events such as athletic training competition between users and can also allow these changes to remain of similar value as the user s steady state HRV levels change e.g. due to increase decrease in fitness or due to aging. The measurement is completed after a predefined number of breathing cycles in one embodiment 7 cycles of 8 seconds giving a measurement time of 56 seconds.

Referring now to the most recent HRV index measurement is displayed in the context of previous measurements by means of graphic line in order that the user may easily visualize significant day to day changes as well as long term trends. The time axis may be linear with 4 different timescales for example 1 week 1 month 3 months all data. For example two lines may be shown daily points joined by straight segments line and rolling 7 day average line . Example thresholds may be based on absolute unit changes or may be statistically derived from current and previous HRV index measurements. An initial 1 day significant decrease may be shown in amber a further significant decrease on subsequent days may be shown red. Alternatively the time axis may be displayed in logarithmic form in order to show discrete data points and emphasize changes over most recent days while still being able to visualize long term trends over months or even years. Numeric indicators and may show differences between the most recent reading and that of the previous day week and month respectively. These indicators may optionally be colored to show trends with example thresholds of 4 HRV index units in either direction. For example in particular an increase of 4 could be considered beneficial and be colored green whereas a decrease of 4 could be considered harmful and shown in red. Changes within these limits might remain with a neutral color or alternatively may progressively shade green or red. The entire chart area between axes and may optionally also be shaded from red at HRV index 20 to green at HRV index 100 with the region around HRV index 50 60 being neutral yellow.

Since exercise is an important part of maintaining cardiovascular health it may be useful to track a training load quantity which is independent of the type of sport performed as a method of capturing the duration and perceived effort level of the user. In some embodiments such a metric for example session RPE Rating of Perceived Exertion as proposed by Foster et. al. in Sports Conditioning Research Journal 2001 15 1 109 115 is tracked. For example the RPE value may be captured on a 1 10 scale and multiplied by the exercise duration in hours in order to obtain a Training Impulse TRIMP score. It is proposed to take this method of capturing the duration and perceived effort level of the user. For example the user may be instructed to choose an exercise duration that best fits their session from a drop down list displayed on the user interface or they may enter a value using input device . This recording of periodic training load values by the user may be realized by hardware and or software for example by display device input device and software running on a CPU such as CPU within device . The Perceived Exertion rating may be derived as per the reference using e.g. a 10 point scale again entered using microphone or data entry mechanism . Alternatively the TRIMP score may be entered directly from or based on calculations from a heart rate monitor device worn by the user during exercise. The measure of training load for example the Training Impulse score may be stored in and subsequently retrieved from a database for example the same database containing the periodic HRV readings or alternatively a second database by hardware and or software for example memory control hardware and software known in the art. Subsequently the periodic training loads may be displayed on for example display e.g. as a histogram as part of a chart displaying HRV readings to allow an easy visual correlation between exercise level and changes in HRV. An illustrative example could be a recreational athlete who is training for an event but who does a number of hard training sessions on consecutive days. It is likely that their HRV daily readings would decline and they would be able to associate this with the training load columns of the chart make adjustments to their training schedule for instance to increase the amount of rest and recovery thereby leading to an optimization in daily HRV readings. The histogram may be computed in hardware and or software for example by software running on a digital CPU such as CPU special purpose digital hardware or a combination of software and hardware.

Referring now to daily training load is recorded by the user at step . This may for example take the form of user keying in a value for example the RPE value using control panel of portable device . Alternatively user may enter the value into device verbally in embodiments wherein device supports speech recognition. Daily training load and HRV are stored in databases and which may comprise portions of the same database e.g. database in some embodiments at steps and respectively. Using counter at step it is determined for example by software running on CPU whether enough daily values of training load have been stored in database to be able to compute a valid histogram of training load at the first instance of accumulating training load and HRV values and or subsequently after a reset of counter initiated by the user using for example a user interface for example control panel of in some embodiments of device for example device of in some embodiments . The value of counter may for example be stored in a memory by CPU . At steps and values of training load and HRV may be retrieved from databases and respectively for example after a command to display a comparison chart of training load and HRV is entered by user using control panel in some embodiments. At step a histogram of training load may be computed for example by CPU over a user selected time period and presented to the user visually for example as bar type chart on display of device . A line type chart comprising HRV values for substantially the same time period as that for which the histogram is computed may also be presented at substantially the same time on display of device .

In some embodiments recommendations to end users may be presented based on the sequence of daily readings and in particular their relative values over time. In general recommendations presented by the invention may unless otherwise described herein be presented using any combination of hardware and software. In particular these recommendations may be presented using for example a display such as display and or by audible output using for example a combination of software running on CPU D A converter implemented in hardware and speaker or earphones connected to for example device . Although these recommendations for athletes may be presented in numerous ways they may be especially helpful when they are under 3 simple headings 

3. COMPETE indicate that based on HRV readings the user is currently likely to be capable of good performance levels in a forthcoming event

1. REST. A significant as assessed by statistical tests known in the art on previous daily values decline in daily reading from one day to the next independent of all other indications indicates that the user s body is experiencing a significant physiological or psychological stress from which they need some period of time to recover.

2. TRAIN. A reading which is in line with or above the recent trend assessed by geometric mean or other averaging technique of readings and assuming that there are no contraindications from HRV or other symptoms in the user.

3. COMPETE. The theory of periodization indicates that in order to maximize performance in competition a period of strenuous training also known as functional overreaching should be followed by a period of lighter training or rest in order for supercompensation when the body becomes stronger to occur. Sports coaches have discovered that the period of rest should be followed by some intense sessions to prepare the body for the rigors of competition.

In HRV sequence terms this means that a depressed mean value during training may be followed by a significant rise in the mean value likely to a level higher than seen in previous months during recovery followed by a dip before competition.

For example the present invention may have indicators for 3 time periods respectively a Daily Change b Weekly Change c Monthly Change

Putting together the above desired recommendations and indicators may give the following table of interpretations 

Recommendations may be presented to the user in the form of a table in the printed instructions to the user as shown above or alternatively by inputting the Daily Weekly Monthly Change indications into expression logic for example within the code executed by processor which then outputs the relevant recommendation either via text on for example display or via a speech synthesized instruction output from speaker or earphones .

Referring now to Daily Weekly and Monthly HRV change may be computed for example at steps and significance may be assigned to these changes at steps respectively for example as previously described. HRV change and significance value assignment may be realized in hardware and or software for example by software running on CPU special purpose digital hardware or a combination of software and hardware. Color coding may be assigned to the significance values assigned to daily change weekly change and monthly change at steps respectively. Training recommendations may be presented to the user for example in the form of color coded indicators of the significance of daily weekly and monthly changes in HRV labeled as such by texts respectively on display of device . For example using the previously described color code assignments the daily change may be assigned the value highly significant negative change and the indicator may be assigned the color red. The weekly and monthly changes may both be assigned the value significant negative change and the color amber and these colors may be displayed by indicators and respectively on display of device . Based upon the values assigned to the daily weekly and monthly changes training recommendations may be presented to the user for example as text on a portion of display of device . Indicators and recommendations may be presented by hardware and or software for example by software running on CPU and display control hardware and a display known in the art.

In some embodiments the user may input a periodic for example daily mood score using for example the control panel of device . The mood score which may be based on fatigue stress or other mood states known in the art may for example comprise a number from 1 to 5 with 1 representing happiest and 5 representing unhappiest . The system may store the daily mood score in a first database e.g. database in some embodiments . The system may retrieve a set of HRV values from a second database e.g. database of which may comprise a portion of the same database used to store the mood scores e.g. database of . Referring now to the device for example device may display for example day names and or dates mood scores and HRV values simultaneously for example on display so that the user can correlate her mood with her HRV value. In some embodiments icons representing mood scores may be displayed instead of or in addition to numerical mood scores . For example an icon representing a very smiley face may be displayed either alone or in close proximity to the number 1 to represent the happiest mood a somewhat smiley face icon may be displayed either alone or in combination with the number 2 to represent a somewhat happy mood a neutral face icon horizontal mouth line may be displayed either alone or in combination with the number 3 to represent a neutral neither happy nor unhappy mood a somewhat frowning face icon may be displayed either alone or in combination with the number 4 to represent a somewhat unhappy mood and a very frowning face icon may be displayed either alone or in combination with the number 5 to represent a very unhappy mood. The purpose of the mood recording display and correlation may be for example to assist the user in diagnosing the onset of overtraining where the HRV value alone may not provide conclusive enough evidence. It may also assist in the detection of training monotony independent of HRV value where too much of the same type of training is being performed.

As opposed to the usual prospective study group statistical approach The method and system described above introduces the capability to perform self contained measurements permitting long term longitudinal study of HRV variations within individuals by taking periodic for example daily measurements for only one individual over the long term.

In some embodiments a measure of fitness is computed from a set of HRV values compiled over an extended period of time. For example HRV values compiled on a daily basis may be stored for example in database of for weeks months or even years. A first fitness measure may then be computed using for example HRV values compiled over a first one week period. This first fitness measure may then be presented to the user together with a second fitness measure computed using stored HRV values for a second later one week period for example on display of device . The user may then be able to appreciate her relative change in fitness to assess for example the success or lack thereof of her training program. The user may also be able to take preventative measures by for example consulting her physician should the difference in presented fitness measures indicate a marked deterioration in fitness.

In another example the user may be presented with a measure of her fitness on a short term e.g. daily basis even though that measure of fitness is computed for an extended period of time for example the one month period preceding the current day.

A measure of a user s relative fitness for an extended time period may be computed by taking the difference between the current average HRV value and the average value stored at an earlier point in time usually several weeks or months previously and under comparable conditions e.g. following a rest period of several days e.g. in database which may for example comprise a portion of memory . Measures of relative fitness may be computed for example by software running on a CPU special purpose digital hardware or a combination of software and hardware. If the user s fitness at the earlier time point is known for instance expressed as VO2 peak then an increase in average HRV is likely to signify an improvement in VO2 peak and vice versa for a negative change.

In another embodiment the method and system may provide the functionality of an HRV based alarm clock. For example device which may comprise device in some embodiments may generate an awakening stimulus to user user in some embodiments designed to awaken the user when the difference between the HRV index measured while the user is sleeping and the HRV index measured prior to the user falling asleep exceeds a predetermined threshold. In general generating an awakening stimulus may be realized by a combination of software and or hardware for example generating the stimulus may be controlled by software running on CPU and the stimulus itself may be delivered to the user by means of hardware known in the art. For example since the increase in the parasympathetic HRV index that the present invention measures back towards the rolling average is associated with recovery the device may be run continuously while the user is asleep in one specific embodiment and an awakening stimulus for example a loud sound may be generated by the device to wake the user up when sufficient recovery has occurred as indicated by the difference between waking and sleeping HRV index exceeding a predetermined threshold. In calculating the difference between waking and sleeping HRV the waking HRV value may be stored in for example memory or any other suitable storage device. The generation of the loud sound may for example be controlled by software running on CPU and the generation of the sound itself may be via D A converter and speaker . Alternatively device may provide a direct stimulus to the user via a wired or wireless link to a transducer not shown attached to the user . For example a vibrating transducer around the user s wrist may receive a vibrate command wirelessly from device for example under the control of software running on CPU and transmitted by modulator . This HRV based alarm clock function may be of special value to people who need to stay awake as much as possible but still need to function well e.g. round the world sailors expedition members military on assignment top politicians business leaders etc. but may also be of value to any user who needs to maximize her productivity while also achieving sufficient recovery after sleep.

In another embodiment a periodic HRV measurement may be used for management of hypertension and pre hypertension in individuals. It is known that low and reducing values of parasympathetic HRV can precede either the development or worsening of hypertension. It is also known that frequently recommended lifestyle modifications such as increasing levels of exercise dietary fruit and vegetables rest sleep and relaxation and reducing body weight stress smoking alcohol and dietary salt all have a significant and often rapid impact on parasympathetic activity which can be reflected in a periodic HRV measurement.

Referring now to which may for example be partly implemented by CPU executing instructions fetched from a portion of memory at step in this embodiment a user may input answers for example using control panel under the control of software for example running on CPU in response to a series of personal profile questions which may be presented to the user for example on display under the control of software for example running on CPU . As one example these questions may include 

11. Family history of heart disease positive value if either natural parent has a history of cardiovascular disease 

At step an initial HRV reading for the user may be captured according to the method described in the preceding paragraphs At step a Heart Health Index may be generated by comparing the value of the initial HRV reading against for example pre stored values of norms of HRV in both sexes of the general population within a particular age range that includes the current age of the user. This comparison may be performed by any combination of hardware and software for example by software running on CPU and or special purpose hardware using techniques known in the art. These HRV norms may be based on data previously published in scientific papers or may be established by pooling data from many users of the present invention. The HRV norms may be pre stored for example in a portion of memory by downloading under the control of CPU using a wired or wireless interface not shown in .

At step an initial summary may be presented to the user for example on display indicating the percentile range within which their age and sex normalized HRV reading sits.

At step for each of the parameters 3 13 in the above list a score may be generated on for example a 5 point scale from 2 to 2 indicating the better worse deviation of the answers from recommendations provided by e.g. the US National Institute of Health Joint National Committee in the 7th report of prevention detection evaluation and treatment of high blood pressure or other public advisory body on cardiovascular health. These scores may be generated by any combination of hardware and software for example by software running on CPU and or special purpose hardware using techniques known in the art.

At step a set of recommendations for improvement of the HRV value may be generated and presented to the user for example on display based on the scores obtained from step . For example if the user s BMI is greater than 30 then they will be urged to lose weight and if their exercise score is also low to include an exercise program whose intensity and frequency may also be prescribed using the method system and software described in the preceding paragraphs.

The following table shows one example of a recommendation of lifestyle modifications in order to improve HRV reading and consequently cardiovascular health that may be presented to the user.

Overtraining is a potentially serious condition which occasionally affects athletes who are involved in periods of very high intensity training and typically takes a period ranging between a few days up to several months of complete rest in order to recover.

The medical diagnosis of overtraining is currently performed using symptoms of persistent tiredness unusually high or sometimes low resting heart rate low mood score and an inability to perform at normal levels during training or competition. In addition there has been scientific interest in the use of heart rate variability to increase the robustness of diagnosis but no definitive method incorporating this variable has yet been proposed.

This diagnosis cure of overtraining has three main problems in the situation when an athlete presents themselves to a medical professional 

1. It is difficult to distinguish between the above mentioned symptoms of overtraining and those of other illnesses particularly since overtraining itself often weakens the immune system allowing the symptoms of secondary infections to manifest themselves.

2. The symptoms of overtraining can be confusing for instance in one form of overtraining known as parasympathetic overtraining the athlete can present with a low resting heart rate normally indicative of a well recovered state yet they are unable to perform at the athletic level expected of them.

3. By the time the athlete presents themself to a medical professional the overtraining state may be well established meaning that the athlete will need to be out of action for a substantial period of time while they recover.

1. The Polyvagal Theory 1995 2007 of Professor Stephen Porges. Ref Biological Psychology 74 2007 116 143.

2. The time progression of overtraining cardiac markers particularly resting heart rate RHR and parasympathetically mediated respiratory sinus arrhythmia RSA HRV as measured and quantified using the natural logarithm of the RMSSD.

1. The Polyvagal Theory conceived and usually applied in the field of psychophysiology proposes that the parasympathetic nervous system of mammals has two distinct branches originating in different parts of the brain and carried by different types of nerves to the pacemaking sinoatrial region of the heart.

The Polyvagal Theory argues that when an animal s central nervous system is presented with a challenge which can be either from the animal s environment or from its own internal organs or viscera the autonomic nervous system in total of that animal will attempt to deal with the challenge by successively activating branches of the ANS in the following order 

i Parasympathetic nervous system with stimulus originating in the Nucleus Ambiguous of the brainstem carried via myelinated nerves to the heart and having the impact of reducing heart rate rapidly 1 sec or less during expiration.

ii Sympathetic nervous system carried by unmyelinated nerves and having the impact of increasing heart rate over a period of several seconds.

iii Parasympathetic nervous system with stimulus originating in the dorsal motor nucleus carried via unmyelinated nerves and having the impact of reducing heart rate over a period of several seconds.

2. The use of a daily or other frequent periodic measurement of two variables resting heart rate RHR and a measure of HRV for example Ln RMSSD can be used to separate out the specific states in the above progression according to the following table where Normal refers to a rolling average of recent values for instance the past 7 days and Reduced or Increased refer to the numerical relationship between the current value and the Normal value having passed tests of statistical significance.

In one embodiment athletic overtraining is measured and ameliorated as described below with reference to . At step the heart rate of a resting user Resting Heart Rate or RHR may be measured before training. This measurement may be performed by any combination of hardware and software for example by software running on CPU and or special purpose counter timer hardware such as described in the preceding paragraphs with reference to function . At step HRV may also be measured for example as Ln RMSSD computed for example as the output of block . At step it may be determined e.g. by software running on CPU whether enough RHR and HRV measurements have been taken to insure that reliable normal values for example average values of RHR and HRV may be computed by any combination of hardware and software for example by software running on CPU and or special purpose hardware using techniques known in the art.

If sufficiently reliable values of RHR and HRV are available at step then RHR may be measured after training at step . At step it may be determined whether the value of RHR after training is lower than the value of RHR before training by a predetermined amount. If so then at step recommendations relevant to parasympathetic overtraining as described hereinbefore for example recommendations on reducing training load or recommendations on resting may be presented to the user. If on the other hand the value of RHR after training is not lower than the value of RHR before training then at step the value of HRV after training may be measured. At step it may be determined whether the value of HRV after training is lower than the value of HRV before training by a predetermined amount. If not recommendations relevant to normal training as described hereinbefore for example with reference to may be presented to the user at step . If on the other hand HRV is reduced then at step it may be determined if the value of RHR after training is higher than the value of RHR before training. If so then at step recommendations relevant to sympathetic overtraining for example recommendations on reducing training load or recommendations on resting may be presented to the user. If on the other hand the value of RHR after training is not higher than the value of RHR before training then recommendations relevant to normal training may be presented to the user at step .

Thus it may be possible to provide an unambiguous diagnosis of different states of overtraining and furthermore by identifying the progression avoid the development of the most dangerous form known as Parasympathetic Overtraining by reducing training load and building in rest and recovery at a much earlier stage.

In another embodiment the exercise dose for patients with heart failure may be prescribed. Regular aerobic exercise in heart failure patients has been established as a beneficial lifestyle modification that could significantly improve their prognosis and decrease costs associated with chronic care. A conundrum exists between the need to carry out exercise at sufficient intensity and duration to bring about beneficial changes while taking care not to overload patients whose tolerance for physiological stress may be very low. Vagal efferent activity has been shown to be strongly negatively correlated with short term overload and positively with beneficial longer term cardioprotective adaptations. It can be measured non invasively by examining respiration mediated variation in beat to beat intervals RSA .

The target population of heart failure HF patients present additional challenges compared to healthy subjects for several reasons 

1. The RR intervals of HF patients are more likely to possess sinus arrythmia of non respiratory origin than healthy subjects. Obtaining sufficient consistency in daily measurement will necessitate more advanced forms of automatic beat interval screening removal and or correction than are currently used in a healthy population. Knowledge of the current phase in the paced breathing cycle can be used to determine the likelihood of a measured beat interval value being correct.

During inhalation as identified at step the autonomic nervous system parasympathetic branch of the user withdraws stimulation with the consequence that the R R interval is shortened. Since the method for example as previously described with reference to includes a controlled breathing pattern beats that are longer than the average R R interval which may be calculated over one or more complete breath cycles during inhalation may be identified at step and excluded at step . In practice an additional margin shown as x in step may be included to allow for the fact that the user s breathing may not be perfectly synchronized with e.g. the lung animation of .

During exhalation as identified as not inhalation at step a maximum allowed difference between adjacent R R intervals can also be predicted by knowing the average R R interval taken over one or more complete breath cycles during the measurement. This is possible because the parasympathetic sympathetic balance also controls the standing pulse rate. A formula has been determined empirically from observations on multiple users whereby the maximum permitted R R interval difference may be related to the square of the mean R R interval divided by a constant for example 12000. Therefore R R intervals not conforming to Max allowed adjacent interval difference mean interval 12000 may be identified at step and excluded at step . As previously described the mean R R interval calculation may commence earlier than the HRV calculation during the measurement sequence so that all R R intervals considered for inclusion in the HRV calculation may be adequately assessed for validity. Intervals not identified for exclusion according to the preceding criteria are included in the HRV calculations e.g. the RMSSD calculations of processor at step .

2. Heart failure patients frequently suffer from atrial fibrillation AF and while it has been shown in the literature that vagal modulation is still apparent in the RR interval the measurement basis may be significantly different to that of the same patient not suffering from AF. Therefore intra patient comparisons will have to be performed in order to compare HRV values with and without AF and establish normative conversion values in the device.

In the case that a user has a temporarily irregular heart rhythm such as palpitations Atrial Fibrillation or SupraVentricular Tachycardia this may lead to a number of excluded intervals according to the set of rules outlined in the previous paragraphs. In case the number of such excluded beats exceeds a predefined threshold e.g. 5 during the measurement sequence then the measurement will be terminated and the user informed of the reason and instructed to retake the measurement after some period of time. This is in order to prevent incorrect readings from contaminating the calculation of longitudinal averages and other statistical measures upon which color codes and recommendations are based.

3. Cardiac patients have significantly decreased HRV compared to healthy controls and vagally modulated HRV is lower even for healthy controls in the standing position. Patients with advanced HF may also have trouble standing so it may be that either sitting or supine positions are best for performing the daily test. This is not likely to result in saturation of parasympathetic stimulus as it might do for an athletic individual.

4. A paced breathing pattern of long duration example 8 seconds suitable for healthy subjects may not be applicable to patients with dyspnea shortage of breath therefore it may be that a paced breathing pattern with shorter periods of controlled inhalation expiration and holding times needs to be used for HF patients. It is preferable to have the expiration as the longest phase of the breathing pattern so for example an inhalation period of 2 seconds followed by expiration of 3 seconds may be used.

5. Heart failure patients will have a lower tolerance for homeostasis disturbance resulting from exercise therefore suitable thresholds for daily exercise recommendation may need to be based on multiple algorithmic rules reflecting maximum allowable inter day changes in vagal HRV. Recovery times will also be longer than in healthy subjects and these also need to be taken into account. In some embodiments an individualized exercise prescription may be conveyed to the user either via text on the screen of the device or perhaps voice synthesis. This needs to be demanding enough to stimulate supercompensation with associated improvement in autonomic function but not so demanding that it causes increased risk to the patient.

6. Heart failure patients will have lower tolerance to exertion during exercise than healthy subjects. It is known that parasympathetic stimulus is withdrawn as exercise intensity increases and also known that parasympathetic activity is cardioprotective against potentially lethal arrhythmia to which heart failure patients may be susceptible. For this reason it is desirable that parasympathetic activity not fall below a safe level. This embodiment can therefore also be used in a continuous measuring mode whereby both the HRV and heart rate HR are calculated for example every 10 seconds. As the user increases their exercise intensity from rest exercise types may include walking cycling jogging rowing machine etc their heart rate will increase in order to pump more blood to their working muscles and their HRV will decrease as parasympathetic stimulus is withdrawn. If the values of both parameters from successive measurements are compared a parasympathetic withdrawal index PWI may be calculated as follows PWI HRV1 HRV2 HR2 HR1 When PWI is less than a threshold value a sonic and or visual alarm may be given to the user urging them to reduce exercise intensity until the PWI once again exceeds the safe threshold.

In one embodiment HRV for a user with heart failure is measured and exercise is recommended to improve the user s HRV measure as described below with reference to . At step it may be determined that the user wants recommendations relevant to heart failure patients by for example presenting an option to select this response to the user on display under the control of software running on CPU and or using audible output via speaker or earphones . For the reason described in the preceding paragraphs at step the user may be instructed to sit or lie down for example via a message on display under the control of software running on CPU and or using audible output via speaker or earphones . At step HRV measurement may be started using the aforementioned specially paced breathing pattern for example an inhalation period of 2 seconds followed by expiration period of 3 seconds may be used. Irregular beats may be excluded using the method described in the preceding paragraphs at step . At step excluded irregular beats may be compared to a predetermined threshold and if this threshold is exceeded at step the measurement may be terminated for example under the control of software running on CPU and the user informed for example that the measurement could not be reliably taken and must be retaken some time later. If the irregular beat threshold is not exceeded then at step the user may be presented with an exercise recommendation appropriate to a user with heart failure.

7. Centralized data collection should be performed more frequently than for healthy controls due to the increased risks that cardiac patients carry. In this embodiment the device may have the ability to communicate for example using standard protocols such as WiFi in the case where device is a PC or GSM in the case where device is a cell phone the HRV reading and other databases to a central server not shown capable of storing and analyzing the results and alerting a medical expert when needed for instance if a declining trend of HRV is seen over an example period of 3 days or more.

Referring now to in another embodiment HRV for users with heart failure is measured continuously as described in the preceding paragraphs. Prior to starting the flow of it may be decided whether an HRV measurement should be started or re started based on for example input from the user to start or stop the continuous measurement mode of operation of for example device and whether a timer for example a 10 second timer not shown has expired. If the user has decided to start a new measurement or in the case of continuous measurements the user has not stopped the continuous measurements then at the start of each measurement interval for example every 10 seconds a new value of heart rate may be measured at step . Irregular beats may be excluded as described in the preceding paragraphs at step and a new value of heart rate variability may be calculated at step . At step a new value of PWI may be calculated as described in the preceding paragraphs by hardware and or software for example by software running on a digital CPU special purpose hardware or a combination of software and hardware. If PWI is less than a predetermined threshold then at step an alarm may be generated to the user. If PWI is not less than the predetermined threshold then no alarm is generated to the user. The alarm may be generated by a combination of hardware and software for example the alarm may be initiated by software running on CPU and an alarm sound generated by D A converter and speaker . Alternatively device may be caused to vibrate by a transducer not shown in the figures controlled by software running on CPU . Alternatively to or in conjunction with device generating an alarm sound or vibrating a prominent message for example a flashing alarm message may be generated on display under the control of software running on CPU .

While the foregoing written description of the invention enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations combinations and equivalents of the specific embodiment method and examples herein. The invention should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment method and examples but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the invention as claimed.

The embodiments of the present invention may be implemented with any combination of hardware and software. If implemented as a computer implemented apparatus the present invention is implemented using means for performing all of the steps and functions described above.

The embodiments of the present disclosure can be included in an article of manufacture e.g. one or more computer program products having for instance computer useable or computer readable media. The media has embodied therein for instance computer readable program code means including computer executable instructions for providing and facilitating the mechanisms of the embodiments of the present disclosure. The article of manufacture can be included as part of a computer system or sold separately.

While specific embodiments have been described in detail in the foregoing detailed description and illustrated in the accompanying drawings it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure and the broad inventive concepts thereof. It is understood therefore that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the particular examples and implementations disclosed herein but is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope thereof as defined by the appended claims and any and all equivalents thereof.

