---

title: Placement of sound signals in a 2D or 3D audio conference
abstract: A conference controller () configured to place an upstream audio signal () associated with a conference participant and a sound signal within a 2D or 3D conference scene to be rendered to a listener () is described. The conference controller () is configured to set up a X-point conference scene with X different spatial talker locations () within the conference scene, X being an integer, X>0; assign the upstream audio signal () to one of the talker locations (); place a sound signal at a spatial sound location () within the X-point conference scene; and generate metadata identifying the assigned talker location () and the spatial sound location and enabling an audio processing unit () to generate a spatialized audio signal based on a set of downstream audio signals () comprising the upstream audio signal () and the sound signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654644&OS=09654644&RS=09654644
owner: Dolby Laboratories Licensing Corporation
number: 09654644
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130321
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 614 590 filed 23 Mar. 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present document relates to audio conferences. In particular the present document relates to methods and systems for setting up and managing two dimensional or three dimensional scenes for audio conferences.

One of the deficiencies in current multi party voice conferences is that voices are typically all rendered to the listeners as a monaural audio stream essentially overlaid on top of each other and usually presented to the listeners within the head when headphones are used. Spatialisation techniques used e.g. to simulate different people talking from different rendered locations can improve intelligibility of speech in a voice conference in particular when there are multiple people speaking simultaneously. The present document addresses the technical problem of designing appropriate two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D scenes for an audio conference which allow a listener to easily distinguish the different talkers of the audio conference. Furthermore schemes for populating a 2D or 3D conference scene with participants and or system sounds e.g. notifications or background music are described which allow to reduce the impact on an ongoing audio conference when adding new participants and or when inserting system sounds into the conference scene. In addition appropriate schemes for rendering a conference scene on various rendering devices such as headphones and or loudspeaker configurations are described.

According to an aspect a conference controller configured to place an upstream audio signal associated with a conference participant within a 2D or 3D conference scene is described. The conference scene is to be rendered to a listener. Typically the listener is positioned at a central position of the conference scene e.g. at the center of a circle or a sphere if the conference scene is modeled as a circle or a sphere . The upstream audio signal may be an audio signal generated at a terminal e.g. a computing device or a telephone device of the conference participant. As such the upstream audio signal typically comprises the speech signal of the conference participant. For this reason the upstream audio signal may also be referred to as a talker audio signal. The conference controller may be positioned at a central position within a communication network e.g. in a so called centralized conference architecture and or the conference controller may be positioned at a terminal of a conference participant e.g. in a so called distributed conference architecture . The conference controller may also be referred to as a scene manager in the instance of using a 2D or 3D rendering system. The conference controller may be implemented using a computing device e.g. a server .

The conference controller may be configured to set up a X point conference scene with X different spatial talker locations within the conference scene X being an integer X 0 e.g. X 1 in particular X 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 or 10 . In this context the conference controller may be configured to calculate the X point conference scene with X different spatial talker locations based on one or more of the conference scene design rules described in the present document. One such design rule may e.g. be that the X talker locations are positioned within a cone around a midline in front of the head of a listener. Other design rules may relate to an angular separation of the X talker locations. Alternatively or in addition the conference controller may be configured to select the X point conference scene with the X different spatial talker locations from a set of pre determined conference scenes comprising pre determined speaker locations. By way of example the set may comprise one or more pre determined X point conference scenes with X different pre determined spatial talker locations. As such the X point conference scene may be a pre determined X point conference scene with X pre determined speaker locations.

The conference controller may be configured to set up different conference scenes e.g. different X point conference scenes with differently placed talker locations and or conference scenes with different values of X . The X talker locations of the X point conference scene are positioned within a cone around a midline in front of the head of the listener. The midline may be an imaginary line starting at a mid point on an imaginary line between the ears of the listener and extending perpendicularly to the imaginary line between the ears of the listener in front of the head of the listener. A generatrix of the cone and the midline form an absolute angle which is smaller than or equal to a pre determined maximum cone angle. The maximum cone angle may be preferably 30 or narrower such as 20 or even 15 depending on the population of the cone.

The conference controller may be further configured to assign the upstream audio signal to one of the X talker locations. By assigning the upstream audio signal to a particular talker location within the conference scene the conference controller enables a rendering device e.g. a terminal of the listener of the conference scene to render the upstream audio signal as if the upstream audio signal emanates from the particular talker location. For this purpose the conference controller is configured to generate metadata identifying the assigned talker location and enabling an audio processing unit at a listener s terminal to generate a spatialized audio signal based on the upstream audio signal. When rendering the spatialized audio signal to the listener the listener perceives the upstream audio signal as coming from the assigned talker location. The audio processing unit may be positioned within the terminal of the listener or in the central audio server handling the audio streams. The spatialized audio signal may e.g. be a binaural audio signal which is rendered on headphones or loudspeakers at the terminal of the listener. Alternatively or in addition the spatialized audio signal may be a multi channel surround sound signal e.g. a 5.1 or a 7.1 multi channel signal.

The X talker locations may be placed on a circle or a sphere with the listener being placed in a center of the circle or sphere. Alternative conference scenes may comprise talker locations which are placed on an ellipse or ellipsoid. The listener does not necessarily need to be placed in a center. By way of example in order to simulate a meeting around a table wherein the meeting comprises the conference participant and the listener the listener may be placed at an edge of the geometrical shape forming the conference scene e.g. at an edge of the circle or sphere or the ellipse or ellipsoid. In the latter case as well as in the case where the listener is placed in the center of an ellipse or ellipsoid the distance between the X talker locations and the listener would be different depending on the talker location.

Two adjacent talker locations of the X talker locations may be separated by at least a minimum angular distance. The minimum angular distance may be 5 or more. The above mentioned condition may be fulfilled by all pairs of adjacent talker locations of the X talker locations. The minimum angular distance allows the listener to clearly distinguish upstream audio signals which are rendered from the different talker locations. The angular distance between adjacent talker locations of the X talker locations may differ for different talker locations. By way of example the angular distance between adjacent talker locations of the X talker locations may increase with increasing distance of the adjacent talker locations from the midline. By doing this the varying capability of a listener to distinguish the source of sounds coming from different angles may be taken into account.

Typically the conference controller is configured to place a plurality of upstream audio signals associated with a plurality of conference participants within the X point conference scene. As such the listener of the conference scene may be enabled to perceive the plurality of upstream audio signals coming from different up to X different spatial locations within the conference scene. The conference controller may be configured to assign the plurality of upstream audio signals to the X talker locations in accordance to a sequential order of the plurality of upstream audio signals. The sequential order may refer to a waiting line of the conference controller for placing the upstream audio signals within the conference. Alternatively or in addition the sequential order of the plurality of upstream audio signals may be based on an order of detection of the plurality of upstream audio signals by the conference controller. In other words the sequential order of the plurality of upstream audio signals may be associated with the order in which the different conference participants dial into the audio conference thereby affecting the sequential order in which the corresponding upstream audio signals are detected by the conference controller.

The conference controller may be configured to assign the X talker locations in an order of increasing absolute angular distance from the midline. In other words the conference controller may assign the first upstream audio signal to the center most talker location the second upstream audio signal to the next center most talker location and so on until reaching an outer most talker location. Subject to assigning an upstream audio signal from the plurality of upstream audio signals to the outer most talker location from the X talker locations the conference controller may be configured to assign a next upstream audio signal from the plurality of upstream audio signals to the inner most also referred to as the center most talker location from the X talker locations.

The conference controller may be configured to place a sound signal at a spatial sound location within the X point conference scene. The sound signal may comprise one or more of the following sound types a notification sound e.g. a beep or chime an announcement and or music. Furthermore the conference controller may be configured to generate metadata identifying the assigned talker location as well as the spatial sound location. The metadata enables the audio processing unit of the listener s terminal to generate the spatialized audio signal for the listener based on a set of downstream audio signals comprising the upstream audio signal and the sound signal. When rendering the spatialized audio signal to the listener the listener perceives the upstream audio signal as coming from the assigned talker location and the sound signal as coming from the sound location.

The conference controller may be configured to generate a characterization tag comprised within the metadata. The tag may enable the audio processing unit at the listener s terminal to identify the sound signal from the set of downstream audio signals received at the audio processing unit and or to identify the sound type of the sound signal and or to process the sound signal in accordance to the sound type. In particular the tag may enable the audio processing unit to select a decoder in accordance to the sound type. By way of example the set of downstream audio signals may be transferred to the terminal of the listener as a set of encoded downstream audio streams. The terminal e.g. the audio processing unit of the terminal may determine that the sound signal comprises music. As a consequence the terminal may use a decoder which is appropriate for decoding a music signal thereby increasing the rendering quality of the sound signal.

The sound signal may comprise waiting music. In such a case the conference controller may be configured to place the sound signal within the X point conference scene prior to assigning any upstream signal to one of the X talker locations. As such the conference controller may be configured to play waiting music to the listener prior to having the listener enter the audio conference. The sound signal may comprise at least two channels e.g. a left and a right channel and the conference controller may be configured to assign the at least two channels to at least two spatial sound locations within the X point conference scene. The at least two spatial sound locations may be symmetric with regards to the midline or the at least two spatial sound locations may be asymmetric with regards to the midline thereby reducing the risk of acoustic imaging . The at least two spatial sound locations may be positioned within the cone around the midline in front of the head of the listener. In another example the spatial sound location or locations for the waiting music are different from the X talker locations e.g. outside of the cone around the midline such as behind the head. This may be beneficial if the waiting music has been added by the listener to the conference. The spatial separation of the waiting music and the talker locations may inform the listener about his her entry into the conference.

In an embodiment the sound location corresponds to one of the X talker locations. This may be beneficial e.g. when the sound signal is associated with the upstream audio signal as when the sound signal announces an event associated with the upstream audio signal e.g. an entering of the upstream audio signal into the conference or the mute status of the upstream audio signal . In such cases the sound location may correspond to the talker location of the upstream audio signal. By way of example the sound signal may indicate an entry of the upstream audio signal into the conference scene or the sound signal may indicate an interruption e.g. the mute status of the upstream audio signal. In a further example the sound signal comprises a notification sound and the conference controller is configured to place the sound signal to a first talker location from the talker locations prior to assigning the upstream audio signal to the first talker location. This may be used to announce the entry of the upstream audio signal into the conference scene. In yet another example the conference controller is configured to determine an interruption e.g. a mute status of the upstream audio signal assigned to the first talker location and the conference controller may be configured to assign the sound signal to the first talker location thereby clearly indicating which upstream audio signal has been interrupted .

The sound location may correspond to a fixed e.g. pre determined location within the 2D or 3D conference scene and the conference controller may be configured to place a plurality of subsequent sound signals to the fixed sound location. As such the listener is enabled to clearly associate a particular location within the conference scene with sound signals.

As indicated above two adjacent talker locations of the X talker locations may be separated by at least a minimum angular distance. In a similar manner the sound location may be separated from any one of the X talker locations by at least the minimum angular distance thereby enabling the listener to clearly distinguish the sound location from the talker locations.

In certain situations e.g. for background music the sound location may be positioned outside of the cone around the midline in front of the head of the listener. In particular the conference controller may be configured to assign the sound signal to at least two sound locations at both sides outside of the cone around the midline in front of the head of the listener. The at least two sound locations may be asymmetric with respect to the midline thereby reducing the risk of acoustic imaging. In an embodiment the sound location is positioned behind the head of the listener. This may be particularly relevant when the sound signal comprises music.

The conference controller may be configured to classify the X spatial talker locations into a plurality of clusters wherein a first of the plurality of clusters comprises at least two spatial talker locations and wherein the at least two spatial talker locations comprised within the first cluster are directly adjacent. In such cases the conference controller may be configured to assign the signal sound to a plurality of sound locations within the X point conference scene wherein the plurality of sound locations are associated with the spatial talker locations comprised within the first cluster. By way of example the plurality of sound locations may be directly adjacent to the spatial talker locations comprised within the first cluster. As such the sound signal may be used to provide an acoustic cue to the listener for the position of the first cluster. In particular the conference controller may be configured to assign a different sound signal to each of the plurality of clusters thereby enabling the listener to acoustically distinguish the different clusters from one another.

The conference controller may be configured to assign the sound signal to at least two sound locations wherein the at least two sound locations may be positioned within the cone around the midline in front of the head of the listener. The at least two sound locations may surround one of the spatial talker positions thereby acoustically emphasizing the one of the spatial talker positions. The conference controller may be configured to pan the sound signal between the at least two sound locations and or to increase decrease the volume of the sound signal thereby further emphasizing the one of the spatial talker positions. In particular the at least two sound locations may comprise pairs of sound locations at both sides of the one of the spatial talker positions. In such cases the conference controller may be configured to modify a pan of the sound signal within the pairs of sound locations thereby modifying a perceived width of the sound signal.

The conference controller may be configured to analyze the upstream audio signal and to modify the sound signal in order to reduce a spectral masking of the upstream audio signal caused by the sound signal. In particular the conference controller may be configured to perform a spectral analysis of the upstream audio signal and the sound signal. Based on this the conference controller may be configured to modify a spectral composition of the sound signal and to thereby reduce a spectral masking of the upstream audio signal due to the sound signal.

The conference controller may be configured to determine a degree of activity of the upstream audio signal e.g. by determining an energy of the upstream audio signal . A rendering or a placement of the signal sound may be delayed if the degree of activity is above a pre determined activity level.

The aspects outlined in the present document may relate to 2D conference scenes and or 3D conference scenes. As such the aspects concerning the angular arrangement of talker locations and or sound locations may relate to azimuth angles and or inclination angles. The azimuth angles may be defined in a horizontal plane comprising the midline. The inclination angles may be defined in a vertical plane comprising the midline. In a 2D conference scene the sound location s may be located at various possibly different azimuth angles with respect to the midline. In a 3D conference scene the sound location s may be located at various possibly different azimuth and or inclination angles with respect to the midline. The azimuth and or inclination angles may be different to zero degrees with respect to the midline.

According to another aspect an audio conferencing system is described. The audio conferencing system comprises a talker terminal configured to generate an upstream audio signal associated with a conference participant e.g. by recording the speech signal of the conference participant using a microphone . Furthermore the audio conferencing system comprises a conference controller according to any of the aspects outlined in the present document. The conference controller is configured to assign the upstream audio signal to a talker location and to assign a sound signal to a sound location within a 2D or 3D conference scene. Furthermore the conference controller is configured to generate metadata identifying the assigned talker location and the sound location. In addition the audio conferencing system comprises a listener terminal configured to render the upstream audio signal and the sound signal to a listener using the metadata such that the listener perceives the upstream audio signal as coming from the assigned talker location and the sound signal as coming from the sound location. The assigned talker location and the sound location may be different from one another.

According to a further aspect a method for placing an upstream audio signal associated with a conference participant and a sound signal within a 2D or 3D conference scene to be rendered to a listener is described. The method comprises setting up a X point conference scene with X different spatial talker locations within the conference scene X being an integer X 0. Furthermore the method comprises assigning the upstream audio signal to one of the talker locations and assigning a sound signal to a spatial sound location within the X point conference scene. In addition the method comprises generating metadata identifying the assigned talker location and the spatial sound location and enabling an audio processing unit to generate a spatialized audio signal based on a set of downstream audio signals comprising the upstream audio signal and the sound signal. When rendering the spatialized audio signal to the listener the listener perceives the upstream audio signal as coming from the assigned talker location and the sound signal as coming from the sound location. The assigned talker location and the sound location may be different from one another.

According to a further aspect a software program is described. The software program may be adapted for execution on a processor and for performing the method steps outlined in the present document when carried out on the processor.

According to another aspect a storage medium is described. The storage medium may comprise a software program adapted for execution on a processor and for performing the method steps outlined in the present document when carried out on a computing device.

According to a further aspect a computer program product is described. The computer program may comprise executable instructions for performing the method steps outlined in the present document when executed on a computer.

It should be noted that the methods and systems including its preferred embodiments as outlined in the present patent application may be used stand alone or in combination with the other methods and systems disclosed in this document. Furthermore all aspects of the methods and systems outlined in the present patent application may be arbitrarily combined. In particular the features of the claims may be combined with one another in an arbitrary manner.

As outlined in the introductory section current multi party audio conference systems typically overlay the audio signals of a plurality of parties participating in an audio conference into a monaural audio signal which is provided as a single audio stream to each of the participating parties. This makes it difficult for a participating party when listening to distinguish the other participating parties from one another when the other parties are talking . In the present document multi party audio conference systems are described which allow for the spatialisation of the plurality of parties of an audio conference i.e. which allow to place different participating parties of the audio conference at different spatial locations within a two dimensional 2D or three dimensional 3D audio scene. As a result a listening party perceives the other participating parties as talking from different respective spatial locations thereby enabling the listening party to better distinguish the other participating parties.

The conference server may e.g. be an application server of an audio conference service provider within a telecommunication network. The terminals may e.g. be computing devices such as laptop computers desktop computers tablet computers and or smartphones as well as telephones such as mobile telephones cordless telephones desktop handsets etc. The conference server comprises a central conference controller configured to combine the plurality of upstream audio signals to from an audio conference. The central conference controller may be configured to place the plurality of upstream audio signals at particular locations within a 2D or 3D conference scene and generate information regarding the arrangement i.e. the locations of the plurality of upstream audio signals within the conference scene.

Furthermore the conference server comprises a plurality of audio servers for the plurality of terminals respectively. It should be noted that the plurality of audio servers may be provided within a single computing device digital signal processor. The plurality of audio servers may e.g. be dedicated processing modules within the server or dedicated software threads to service the audio signals for the respective plurality of terminals . Hence the audio servers may be logical entities which process the audio signals in accordance to the needs of the respective terminals . An audio server or an equivalent processing module or thread within a combined server receives some or all of the plurality of upstream audio signals e.g. in the form of audio streams as well as the information regarding the arrangement of the plurality of upstream audio signals within the conference scene. The information regarding the arrangement of the plurality of upstream audio signals within the conference scene is typically provided by the conference controller which thereby informs the audio server or processing module thread on how to process the audio signals. Using this information the audio server generates a set of downstream audio signals as well as corresponding metadata which is transmitted to the respective terminal in order to enable the respective terminal to render the audio signals of the participating parties in accordance to the conference scene established within the conference controller . The set of downstream audio signals is typically transmitted as a set of downstream audio streams e.g. bitstreams. By way of example the set of downstream audio signals may be encoded as G.711 G722.2 AMR WB MPEG2 or MPEG 4 or proprietary audio bitstreams. The information regarding the placement of the downstream audio signals within the conference scene may be encoded as metadata e.g. within the set of downstream audio streams. Hence the conference server in particular the audio server may be configured to encode the set of downstream audio signals into a set of downstream audio streams comprising metadata for rendering the conference scene at the terminal . It should be noted that the metadata may be sent to the terminal as a separate stream e.g. with a timestamp for synchronization with the downstream audio stream. This means that a terminal that does not require the metadata or that does not know how to decode the metadata can still process the basic downstream audio streams and render the audio signals to the listener at the terminal . In other words the set of downstream audio signals and the metadata may be encoded in a downward compatible way such that terminals which are not enabled for the rendering of 2D or 3D conference scenes may still be used to render the downstream audio signals e.g. in a mixed form .

As such the audio servers may be configured to perform the actual signal processing e.g. using a digital signal processor of the plurality of upstream audio streams and or the plurality of upstream audio signals in order to generate the plurality of downstream audio streams and or the plurality of downstream audio signals as well as the metadata describing the conference scene. The audio servers may be dedicated to a corresponding terminal as illustrated in . Alternatively an audio server may be configured to perform the signal processing for a plurality of terminals e.g. for all terminals .

It should be noted that the upstream audio signal of a terminal may also be referred to as a talker audio signal because it comprises the audio signal which is generated by the conference participant that is talking at the terminal e.g. talking into a microphone of the terminal . In a similar manner the set of downstream audio signals which is sent to the terminal may be referred to as a set of auditor audio signals because the set comprises the plurality of audio signals which the participant at the terminal listens to e.g. using headphones or loudspeakers.

The set of downstream audio signals for a particular terminal is generated from the plurality of upstream audio signals using the central conference controller and the audio server e.g. the audio server or the processing module or the software thread for the particular terminal . The central conference controller and the audio server generate an image of the 2D or 3D conference scene as it is to be perceived by the conference participant at the particular terminal . If there are M participants of the audio conference i.e. if there are M terminals connected to the conference server then the conference server may be configured to arrange M groups of M 1 upstream audio signals within M 2D or 3D conference scenes M being an integer with M 2 e.g. M 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 . More precisely the conference server may be configured to generate M conference scenes for the M terminals wherein for each terminal the remaining M 1 other upstream audio signals are arranged within a 2D or 3D conference scene.

By way of example the conference server may make use of a master conference scene which describes the arrangement of the M conference participants within a 2D or 3D spatial arrangement. The conference server may be configured to generate a different perspective of the master conference scene for the M conference participants i.e. for the M terminals of the M conference participants respectively . By doing this it can be ensured that all of the conference participants have the same relative view of where the other conference participants are being placed. This is notably the case if the M conference participants are positioned around a table e.g. a circle within the master conference scene and if the listeners in the M individual conference scenes are positioned at an edge of the table e.g. on the circle .

In another example the conference server may assign the talker locations of the conference scene in accordance to a sequential arrival of the conference participants to the conference scene. The talker locations may be assigned from an inner most talker location to an outer most talker location as described in the present document. As a result of such sequential order the conference participants may be placed at the same talker locations within the conference scenes destined for different listeners. The conference server may make use of this similarity or identity of conference scenes in order to save computational complexity.

In a further example the conference server may make use of a single conference scene for all the M conference participants and place all of the M conference participants at pre determined talker locations within the single conference scene. In such a case all the M conference participants would perceive the same 2D or 3D conference scene. When providing the single conference scene to a particular terminal for a particular conference participant being the listener the talker location of the particular conference participant may be left empty. This example may be efficient to implement as it only requires the management of a single conference scene by the conference server .

The M conference scenes typically differ in that a different individual of the M participants is placed within a center of the conference scene. By way of example the conference scene for a first terminal typically assumes the first terminal to be in the center of the conference scene and the other M 1 terminals to be placed around the first terminal . As such the audio server for the first terminal generates a set of up to M 1 downstream audio signals and corresponding metadata from the M 1 upstream audio signals other than the upstream audio signal from the first terminal . This terminal specific set of downstream audio signals describes the conference scene for the first terminal wherein the first terminal is typically placed in the center location of the conference scene. In a similar manner a set of downstream audio signals is generated for the other terminals .

In an embodiment the central conference controller is in charge of the control of the audio conference wherein the audio servers manipulate the upstream audio signals and generate the sets of downstream audio signals for their corresponding terminals subject to the control of the central conference controller . By way of example the central conference controller may not process the bearer information i.e. the actual audio data within the upstream audio signals but may process the signaling information e.g. addressing information of the called party and the calling party capabilities of the terminals etc. . The central conference controller may use the signaling information to set up an audio conference. The actual mixing of the upstream audio signals the generation of a set of downstream audio signals the generation of appropriate metadata which defines a terminal specific conference scene as well as the decoding encoding of the audio signals from into audio bitstreams may be performed by the audio servers e.g. using digital signal processors.

A terminal receives its terminal specific set of downstream audio signals and the corresponding metadata and renders the set of downstream audio signals via the audio transceiver e.g. headphones or loudspeakers . For this purpose the terminal e.g. an audio processing unit comprised within the terminal may be configured to decode a set of downstream audio bitstreams in order to extract the downstream audio signals and the corresponding metadata. Furthermore the audio processing unit may be configured to generate a mixed binaural audio signal for rendering by the audio transceiver wherein the mixed binaural audio signal reflects the terminal specific conference scene designed at the conference server for this terminal . In other words the audio processing unit may be configured to analyze the received metadata and to place the received set of downstream audio signals into the terminal specific conference scene. As a result the conference participant perceives a binaural audio signal which gives the conference participant at the terminal the impression that the other participants are placed at specific locations within a conference scene.

The generation of a binaural audio signal for each one of the downstream audio signals may be performed by processing the mono downstream audio signal through a spatialisation algorithm. Such an algorithm could be the filtering of the samples of the downstream audio signal using a pair of head related transfer functions HRTFs in order to provide a left and right ear signal. The HRTFs describe the filtering that would have naturally occurred between a sound source of the downstream audio signal positioned at a particular location in space and the ears of the listener. The HRTFs include all the cues for the binaural rendering of the sound such as interaural time difference interaural level difference and spectral cues. The HRTFs depend on the location of the sound source i.e. on the talker location of the downstream audio signal . A different specific pair of HRTFs may be used for each specific location within the conference scene. Alternatively the filtering characteristics for a particular location can be created by interpolation between adjacent locations that HRTFs are available for. Hence the terminal may be configured to identify the talker location of a downstream audio signal from the associated metadata. Furthermore the terminal may be configured to determine an appropriate pair of HRTFs for the identified talker location. In addition the terminal may be configured to apply the pair of HRTFs to the downstream audio signal thereby yielding a binaural audio signal which is perceived as coming from the identified talker location. If the terminal receives more than one downstream audio signal within the set of downstream audio signals the above processing may be performed for each of the downstream audio signals and the resulting binaural signals may be overlaid to yield a combined binaural signal.

It should be noted that alternatively or in addition to the generation of a mixed binaural audio signal the terminal e.g. the audio processing unit may be configured to generate a surround sound e.g. a 5.1 or a 7.1 surround sound signal which may be rendered at the terminal using appropriately placed loudspeakers . Furthermore the terminal may be configured to generate a mixed audio signal from the set of downstream audio signals for rendering using a mono loudspeaker .

In contrast to conventional monaural audio conference systems where a single mixed audio signal is transmitted from the conference server to a terminal in the audio conference system of a set of up to M 1 downstream audio signals and corresponding metadata are transmitted e.g. as bitstreams from the conference server to each terminal . In view of bandwidth limitations of an underlying communications network it may be beneficial to limit the number of audio signals e.g. bitstreams which are transmitted within a set of downstream audio signals . In the following it is assumed that N is the number of downstream audio signals comprised within a set of downstream audio signals for a particular terminal with N being an integer e.g. N

As outlined above the conference server receives up to M upstream audio signals which are placed within a 2D or 3D conference scene. The conference server may determine and analyze a degree of talker activity of the M upstream audio signals at a plurality of succeeding time instants and or at a plurality of succeeding frames . The degree of talker activity of an upstream audio signal may be based on the energy e.g. means square energy of the upstream audio signal. A conference participant and the corresponding upstream audio signal may be classified as an active talker at a particular time instant or as an inactive talker at the particular time instant based on the degree of talker activity. This classification may change from time instant to time instant. The conference server may then determine a set of downstream audio signals and associated metadata for a particular conference participant i.e. for a particular terminal by taking into account the degree of talker activity. The selection of the upstream audio signals which are inserted into the set of downstream audio signals may change from time instant to time instant as a function of the degrees of talker activity . By way of example the conference server may be configured to only consider the upstream audio signals of active talkers at a particular time instant for the set of downstream audio signals .

As a result of taking into account a degree of talker activity the conference server may be configured to reduce the required bandwidth for transmitting the sets of downstream audio signals to the different terminals . In case of a single active talker the set of downstream audio signals might only comprise a single audio signal i.e. the upstream audio signal of the active talker thereby significantly reducing the bandwidth on the communication link between the conference server and the terminal . The set of downstream audio signals may nonetheless comprise or be associated with metadata indicating the spatial location of the active talker s . Hence the terminal may nonetheless be enabled to render the audio signals of the active talkers in a spatialized manner. The metadata may change from time instant to time instant along with the change of talker activity. Hence the metadata may indicate at each time instant the spatial arrangement of the active talker s reflected within the set of downstream audio signals .

As a further measure to reduce bandwidth discontinuous transmission may be used from the source devices i.e. from a terminal to the conference server . By way of example the terminal may be configured to determine the degree of talker activity based on the audio signal recorded at the terminal . If the degree of talker activity is low e.g. below a pre determined energy threshold the terminal may be configured to discontinue the transmission of the upstream audio signal from the terminal to the server thereby reducing the required bandwidth. Hence talkers may be assigned to the same spatial locations within the conference scene but will only cause a conflict if the talkers talk at the same time.

In a distributed architecture a terminal is configured to send its upstream audio signal e.g. as a bitstream to the other participating terminals via a communication network . For this purpose the terminal may use multicasting schemes and or direct addressing schemes of the other participating terminals . Hence in case of M participating terminals each terminal receives up to M 1 downstream audio signals e.g. as bitstreams which correspond to the upstream audio signals of the M 1 other terminals . The local conference controller of a receiving terminal is configured to place the received downstream audio signals into a 2D or 3D conference scene wherein the receiving terminal is typically placed in the center of the conference scene. The audio processing unit of the receiving terminal is configured to generate a mixed binaural signal from the received downstream audio signals wherein the mixed binaural signal reflects the 2D or 3D conference scene designed by the local conference controller . The mixed binaural signal is then rendered by the audio transceiver .

It should be noted that the centralized conference system and the decentralized conference system may be combined to form hybrid architectures. By way of example the terminal may also be used in conjunction with a conference server e.g. while other users may use terminals . In an example embodiment the terminal receives a set of downstream audio signals and corresponding metadata from the conference server . The local conference controller within the terminal may set up the conference scene provided by the conference server as a default scene. In addition a user of the terminal may be enabled to modify the default scene provided by the conference server .

Alternatively or in addition the components of the conference server may be distributed within a network e.g. in order to reduce the bandwidth required by the audio conference. By way of example the central conference controller may be positioned at a first position e.g. a central position and the audio servers may be positioned in one or more other different positions within a network. This may be beneficial in order to select positions for the audio servers which reduce the overall network capacity required for handling the audio conference. It may e.g. be beneficial to place the audio servers according to the regional distribution of the participating terminals of the audio conference. The communication between the audio servers and the central conference controller may be limited to signaling information without the need to exchange the actual audio data .

In the following reference will be made to the centralized conference system . It should be noted however that the disclosure is also applicable to the decentralized architecture and any hybrid forms of conference systems.

The conference system may be configured to automatically determine the talker locations of a conference scene based on one or more of a plurality of placement rules. These placement rules are based on perceptual tests where talkers were placed at different locations within a conference scene and where the preferred rendering locations for a listener were determined. These perceptual experiments have shown that

Some or all of the above mentioned rules may be used to define default scenes with default talker locations . Furthermore some or all of these rules may be used to specify a deterministic behavior of an automatic scene manager e.g. embodied by the central conference controller and or the local conference controller . The scene manager may be configured to automatically place participants into a conference scene as the participants enter the conference scene . In other words the scene manager running on the central conference controller and or on the local conference controller may be configured to automatically determine the talker location of a new conference participant based on a default conference scene and based on the participants which are already placed within the conference scene .

In the following an example three point scene manager populating a default three point conference scene and an example six point scene manager populating a default six point conference scene are described. It should be noted that using the placement rules described in the present document general X point scenes and corresponding X point scene managers may be specified with X being an integer X 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 e.g. X M 1 for conferences having M conference participants placed at different spatial locations .

A scene manager e.g. a central or local conference controller may use a pre determined X point scene e.g. the 3 point scene and or the 6 point scene shown in respectively in order to place talkers into a conference scene as each talker enters the conference. An X point scene with X M 1 may be used for a conference having a total number of M conference participants such that each of the M conference participants may be assigned to a different talker location.

Typically the actual number of talkers in an audio conference is not known when the conference starts. Hence the scene manager may be configured to add conference participants to the pre determined X point scene when the conference participants call in. In particular the scene manager may be configured to assign a particular location within the pre determined X point scene to a joining participant. For this purpose the scene manager may make use of a set of rules for adding or removing conference participants into the pre determined X point scene. Example placement rules may be

The above mentioned placement rules may be used alone or in combination in order to place a new participant into an X point scene. As such the new participants may be added to the conference scene from the inner points of the X point scene outwards and or in such a way as to maximize the balance around the centre talker location of the X point scene or the midline of the scene. If the number of talkers M 1 in the conference scene exceeds the number of talker locations X of the X point scene the scene manager may be configured to assign multiple talkers to the same talker location. For the three point scene illustrated in upstream participants could be placed by the scene manager as follows 

Please note that in the present document angular values are either denoted by the symbol the term degrees or possibly both. For the six point scene new conference participants could join the scene as follows using as a reference 

A particular six point scene which has shown to have particularly good properties with regards to the ability of a listener to distinguish the different participants placed at the different talker locations makes use of the following angles for the talker locations . This particular six point scene satisfies the constraint of minimum separation between adjacent talker locations stays within a 20 cone and is slightly asymmetric with regards to the midline 

The above mentioned description of default scenes has been limited to an example three and an example six point scene . It should be noted that other numbers of points within a scene are also possible ranging from a two point scene manager up to an M 1 point scene for a conference with M participants . The number of points within a scene is typically only limited by the design and placement rules described in the present document. Furthermore it should be noted that the indicated values of angles are examples only. The selected angle values may vary by 1 degree or 2 degrees. As such the angle values described in the present document should be understood as approximate indications.

It should be noted that instead of or in addition to assigning multiple talkers to the same talker location e.g. as the number of talkers M 1 exceeds the number X of talker locations the scene manager may be configured to upgrade the conference scene to a conference scene having a higher number of talker locations e.g. from a 3 point scene to a 6 point scene . By way of example the scene manager e.g. the conference server may prompt an organizer of the audio conference located at one of the terminals whether the conference scene should be upgraded e.g. subject to a premium fee . If accepted the scene manager may transfer the conference participants to the upgraded conference scene. By doing this the size of the conference scene can be flexibly adapted to the actual number of conference participants. Furthermore conference scenes with different sizes may be provided by a conference service provider as a value added service.

It should be noted that alternatively or in addition to a horizontal distribution of talkers within a conference scene the conference scene may be extended vertically notably if the endpoint is capable of 3D rendering. For example the same azimuth angular separation may be used between different talker locations but with an elevation separation of e.g. 10 degrees. In this way layers of talkers can be created thereby further increasing the possibilities for spatial separation of different talkers within a conference. In more general terms the plurality of talker locations within a conference scene may be described by an azimuth angle with a horizontal plane in front of the head of the listener wherein the horizontal plane comprises the midline and an inclination angle within a vertical plane in front of the head of the listener wherein the vertical plane comprises the midline . The conference scene may comprise a plurality of rows of talker locations each talker location within a row being described by a different azimuth angle and a same inclination angle wherein each row is positioned at a different inclination angle .

In the following various schemes for reducing the required network resources for an audio conference are outlined. As discussed above the audio conference systems described in the present document are directed at allowing a binaural rendering or a multi channel rendering of a conference scene at the terminals of an audio conference. The binaural rendering should allow for the placement of a talker in the conference scene within a 2D or 3D space. This is in contrast to the mixing i.e. adding of two mono audio signals together into a single mono signal which does not allow for a spatial separation of the two audio signals . The binaural rendering of the talkers in a conference scene could be implemented at various locations within the conference system. The example conference system of makes use of a centralized conference server which generates metadata that specifies how a corresponding set of downstream audio signals is to be combined in order to form a specific conference scene. A binaural signal which reflects the specific conference scene is determined at a respective terminal thereby allowing the binaural rendering to flexibly adapt to the rendering characteristics of the audio transceiver at the terminal also referred to as an endpoint . Typically the generation of a binaural signal is based on the set of downstream audio signals and is based on the placement information comprised within the metadata. Furthermore the generation of a binaural signal may be dependent on the type of audio transceiver e.g. loudspeaker or headphone . A centralized conference server may not be aware of the type of audio transceiver used in a terminal and it may therefore be beneficial to perform the generation of the binaural signal at the terminal .

By way of example the endpoint may need to dynamically adapt during an audio conference. For example the listener at the endpoint may start the audio conference by using a binaural headset. At a later stage the listener may be joined in the room by a second conference participant so they disconnect the binaural headset and use the endpoint loudspeakers and microphone so they can both participate. Consequently the rendering of the conference scene would need to be adapted in order to switch from headphones to loudspeakers. As such the endpoint may be configured to adapt the rendering of the 2D or 3D conference scene to the audio transceiver used at the endpoint .

Hence it may be beneficial to transmit a set of up to M 1 individual downstream audio signals corresponding to the M 1 talkers within an audio conference and associated metadata to a terminal . If the conference scene is limited to X talker locations then multiple talkers may have been assigned to the same talker locations. The audio signals of talkers which have been assigned to the same talker locations may be mixed in order to form a downstream audio signal for the respective talker location. As such a set of up to X downstream audio signals corresponding to the X talker locations of an X point conference scene and associated metadata may be sent to the terminal . The terminal may be configured to render the 2D or 3D X point conference scene using the set of downstream audio signals and the associated metadata. Furthermore the terminal e.g. the terminal may be configured to modify the conference scene using a local conference controller e.g. to swap talkers and talker locations to shift the conference scene etc. . However in order to enable the terminal to perform a binaural or a multi channel rendering of the X point conference scene a set of up to X individual downstream audio signals and associated metadata have to be transmitted to the terminal .

Alternatively the binaural signal for a terminal may be generated at the conference server . This may be beneficial with regards to the required bandwidth on the link between the conference server and the terminal as the transmission of a binaural signal i.e. a stereo signal may require less bandwidth than the transmission of the set of up to M 1 downstream audio signals and the corresponding metadata which are typically transmitted in the form of a bitstream e.g. a G.711 a G722.2 AMR WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wide Band an MPEG2 or an MPEG 4 bitstream . On the other hand the generation of the binaural signal at the conference server allows for less flexibility with regards to the audio transceiver used at the destination terminal and or with regards to the manipulation of the conference scene at the destination terminal also referred to as the listener terminal .

When performing the generation of a binaural signal at the terminals as outlined in the context of the number of audio signals of a set of downstream audio signals may be limited to a maximum number of N simultaneous active audio signals wherein N is smaller than the number of participants M e.g. N

It should be noted that the N downstream audio signals may be provided along with corresponding metadata. As such the terminal may be enabled to render the N downstream audio signals in a spatialized manner. By way of example even if N 1 the single downstream audio signal may be transmitted along with metadata indicating where to place the single downstream audio signal in a 2D or 3D spatial conference scene. If only a single talker is active the downstream audio signal corresponding to the upstream audio signal of the single active talker could be placed at the talker location of the single talker. This is different from a conventional mono rendering with no spatialization . Only in case of multiple talkers and N 1 the spatial disambiguation of the multiple talkers would be lost due to a mixing of the multiple talkers into a single downstream audio signal.

As outlined above the conference server may comprise a central conference controller and a plurality of audio servers . The conference controller may be configured to define the placement of conference participants in the conference scene. Furthermore the conference controller may be configured to determine whether the audio signals of one or more conference participants need to be mixed which audio signals should be mixed and a priority of the mixing operations. In other words the conference controller may be configured to

As such there are at least two elements to a mixing strategy used by the conference controller . These elements are to determine which talkers are to be mixed together and to determine where the final spatial location for the mixed talkers lies within the conference scene. By way of example for a six point scene the conference controller may be configured to identify adjacently placed angles i.e. talker locations for mixing. This allows for a reduction from a six point scene down to a three point scene if N 3 . This is illustrated in an example six point conference scene in . If there are only four people speaking in the scene then the preferred mixing strategy could be to mix cluster 1 and or cluster 2 if talkers at these locations are active in order to reduce the number of audio signals to the maximum number of N 3. Only if this is not sufficient talkers within Cluster 4 may be mixed at the server . As will be outlined in further detail below the mixing is typically performed based on an analysis of talker activity. This means that at each of a plurality of time instants the number of active upstream audio signals may be determined. If the number of active upstream audio signals at a particular time instant is greater than N some or all of the active upstream audio signals may be mixed in accordance to the mixing rules described in the present document .

In yet other words the conference controller may be configured to mix audio streams i.e. mix audio signals based on the number of streams which are present within the conference and based on a maximum number of allowable streams. If the number of streams exceeds N streams then a mixing strategy is applied to limit the number of streams which are transmitted to an endpoint . The mixing strategy may comprise the mixing rule to always mix large eccentricities first. Furthermore the conference controller may be configured to place the mixed stream at one of the two or more pre defined talker locations where the mixed streams had originally been placed. Alternatively the mixed stream may be placed somewhere between the two or more pre defined talker locations. In a preferred implementation a mixed stream is placed midway between the talker locations of the streams that have been mixed. The conference controller may perform the mixing of talkers that are placed near the midline of a conference scene e.g. cluster 3 of only as a last resort i.e. with reduced priority .

As discussed above the mixing of the audio signals of the conference participants is typically only required if the number of active talkers i.e. M 1 for a conference having M participants exceeds the maximum number N of allowed audio signals within a set of audio signals and or if the number of active talkers M 1 exceeds the number of talker locations within the X point scene i.e. M 1 X . By way of example the mixing within a six point scene is only required when there are 4 or more talkers. In this instance the scene is busy and therefore small movements of sounds will be difficult to notice. In other words as the number of participants in a conference increases i.e. as the conference becomes busy spatial movements of sounds which results from the mixing of audio signals tend to be less perceivable by a listener .

The audio servers may be configured to implement the mix of audio signals as defined by the conference controller . In other words the audio server may process the audio signals and perform the merging of the audio signals. In yet other words in a packet based communication network the audio servers may make decisions on a packet by packet basis of the audio signals whether to implement a mix in order to reduce the total number of streams. By way of example the audio servers may be configured to determine the degree of activity of the M upstream audio signals at each of a plurality of succeeding time instants wherein the time instants may e.g. coincide with the packets of an audio bitstream . The conference controller may analyze the degrees of activity and decide on a selection and or mixing of upstream audio signals to bring down the total number of downstream audio signals to the allowed maximum of N. Furthermore the conference controller may provide the placement information regarding the N downstream audio signals. The actual mixing and the generation of the metadata may then be performed by the audio servers based on the decisions and placement information provided by the conference controller.

The above examples for limiting the number of audio streams towards a terminal to a maximum number of N audio streams are based on a fixed selection of possibly mixed audio streams which are transmitted to the terminal . Typically the number of active talkers within a conference is limited. In an ideal and highly organized audio conference there would be only one active talker while the other conference participants would be listening. As such it might be sufficient in such a highly organized audio conference to only transmit a single audio stream i.e. the audio stream of the active talker along with metadata indicating the placement of the active talker within the conference scene. As another participant located at a different talker location becomes the active talker the single transmitted audio stream may be changed to be the audio stream corresponding to the new active talker along with metadata indicating the new talker location. As such all the different talkers may be rendered at the terminal at their respective talker locations while at the same time only transmitting a single audio stream and related metadata .

In more general terms the conference controller may be configured to dynamically select the set of N downstream audio signals based on a degree of talker activity of the X mixed or unmixed audio signals placed within an X point conference scene. At a particular time instant the conference controller may select the N most active ones of the X mixed or unmixed audio signals for transmission towards the terminal along with the relevant metadata for placing the selected audio signals within the conference scene . The selection of audio signals for transmission to the terminal may be repeated for succeeding time instants e.g. every 1 second or every 100 ms . As such the number X of spatial locations which can be rendered at a terminal may be maintained while at the same time providing a reduced number N of audio streams which are transmitted to the terminal . In an embodiment the N 1 most active ones of the X mixed or unmixed audio signals are selected for transmission towards the terminal . As such the N 1 most active talkers may be rendered in a spatialized manner at the terminal .

In addition to placing participants of an audio conference into a 2D or 3D conference scene audio conference systems typically make use of notification sounds and or background music. The use of musical sounds such as hold music notifications of people joining or leaving a conference and other informational tones are frequently used in conference solutions. Interactive Voice Response IVR solutions use recorded or synthesized speech to make announcements into the conference. Example announcements include phrases such as Please wait while you are connected to the conference or Please enter your access code .

These sounds are typically passed through the same audio signal processing modules as the voice signals of the audio conference. This may result in musical sounds being impaired in various ways Stereo music signals or multi channel e.g. 5.1 music signals may be reduced to a single channel i.e. to a mono music signal from initially two channels or multi channels e.g. 5.1 channels the use of voice codecs may introduce artifacts into the musical sound when the tonal components of the music are poorly represented in the coded domain thereby yielding a distorted musical sound the voice codecs may be bandwidth limited in order to allow for an efficient data transfer through the network thereby re coding the musical sound from e.g. 44.1 kHz down to 8 kHz sample rate the musical sound may be subjected to spectral changes due to noise reduction and equalization components of the conference system that are tuned for speech. These noise reduction and equalization components may impact the noise like characteristics of percussive sounds within music. Hence it is desirable to ensure an appropriate rendering of sound signals e.g. notifications and or music within an audio conference. It should be noted that for this purpose a listener s terminal may be configured to handle audio streams encoded in different formats at different data rates and or different sample rates e.g. audio streams comprising speech signals using a first codec and audio streams comprising music signals in a different codec .

A further technical problem when mixing sounds into an existing speech stream within a conference scenario is the impact of the sounds on the intelligibility of the speech signals. As a result of energetic masking certain frequencies of the speech signals may be masked by the sound signal thereby making the speech signals less comprehensible. As such there is a need for an appropriate adjustment of the informational sounds e.g. an appropriate adjustment of the level of the sounds such that the sounds can be heard and interpreted by a listener without masking the speech signal of a talker within the conference scene.

A further aspect regarding conference sounds is the timing and positioning of the sounds within the scene which is typically determined by the event triggering the informational sound. As a result a conference sound may have a disturbing effect on the talkers listeners within a conference scene. Hence there is a need for providing less intrusive ways of informing the participants in a conference call about an event using informational sounds.

In order to allow for an appropriate processing of a conference sound it is proposed to make use of an audio categorization of the different types of audio signals used within an audio conference. By way of example an audio signal may be tagged as a voice signal e.g. the upstream signals coming from the terminals may be tagged to be voice signals or as a notification sound or as a musical sound. If the scene manager is provided with additional information related to the audio content of the different audio signals the scene manager can ensure that the correct processing is applied to an audio signal rather than treating all audio signals the same e.g. as voice signals . The categorization tag can be embedded into a bitstream representing an audio signal as metadata. Alternatively any other known method using e.g. in band or out of band signals of transferring additional information alongside the audio signal may be used in order to provide the categorization tag. The scene manager can interpret the categorization tag provided alongside the audio signal and determine the appropriate processing based on the categorization tag. The appropriate processing may include

The appropriate processing applied by the scene manager comprised e.g. in the conference controller may be different based on the existing content of the conference scene and based on the category of the audio signal.

For example the conference systems of may be configured to include up to M participants i.e. up to M terminals into an audio conference. The M terminals generate M respective upstream audio signals which may be tagged e.g. as voice signals . Furthermore the conference systems may be configured to include K with K being an integer e.g. K 1 2 3 4 5 sound signals into the audio conference. These sound signals may be tagged e.g. as notification sounds and or musical sounds . The tags may be transmitted alongside with the upstream audio signals sound signals as metadata e.g. embedded within the bitstream . Alternatively or in addition the conference server may be configured to identify the upstream audio signals coming from the terminals to be voice signals solely based on the origin of the audio signals . The sound signals may originate from the conference server itself such that the conference server is typically aware of their characteristic i.e. of the fact that the sound signal is a musical sound or a notification sound . By way of example if the sound signal is coming from an IVR interactive voice response component of the conference system the conference server can intelligently tag the sound signals as speech as the conference server knows what has been synthesized or streamed from a recorded file.

As such the conference server may be configured to populate a conference scene with one or more of the upstream audio signals and as well as with one or more sound signals as and when required . The resulting conference scene may be communicated to a respective terminal via the set of downstream audio signals which comprises voice signals of the talkers as well as sound signals. The voice signals and the sound signals comprised within the set of downstream audio signals may be appropriately tagged in order to allow for an appropriate processing of the audio signals at the respective terminal .

As indicated above the manager of a conference scene e.g. implemented within the conference server may be configured to place sound signals within the conference scene. Sound signals may include e.g. 

In a typical mono conference system these sounds are either mixed into the existing voice stream within the conference or replace the entire voice stream thereby causing an interruption of the audio conference. Ideally the sound signals should be placed into the conference without causing an interruption and or without making an active talker difficult to understand. In the present document it is proposed to ensure the above mentioned goals by making use of a rendering scheme that uses spatial separation between sound signals and the voice signals of the conference participants.

Hold or waiting room music may be rendered in a far superior way compared to existing typical conference systems by ensuring that the music is not processed incorrectly. Stereo music can be encoded using a transform based codec without the typical impairments of a speech based codec such as CELP Code Excited Linear Prediction . A stereo sound signal may be inserted into the conference i.e. the two channels of the stereo sound signal may be streamed into the conference. The conference control logic e.g. the conference server may be configured to determine whether the receiving endpoint is capable of receiving multiple channels of audio data and if not mix down the stereo sound signal to a single mono stream. The sound signal or the mixed sound signal may be encoded using an appropriate music codec thereby ensuring an appropriate quality level and audio bandwidth.

The encoded sound signal may then be transmitted to the endpoint alongside with metadata which indicates that the encoded sound signal is a music signal. In case of a multi channel endpoint the received music streams can be rendered to specific locations within the audio scene as shown in for standard stereo sounds and in using asymmetric rendering. The selection of appropriate asymmetric sound locations may be performed in accordance to the selection of asymmetric talker locations as described above.

Hence the conference server may be configured to provide spatialized waiting room music to a participant prior to entering a conference scene. The waiting room music may be placed at two locations in front of the listener as illustrated in the scene of . The two locations are preferably located within a cone in front of the listener wherein the cone is defined by the generatrix . The two locations may be used to render a left and a right channel of the waiting room music respectively. The two locations may be arranged in a symmetric manner as illustrated in or the two locations may be arranged in an asymmetric manner as illustrated in . The two locations of are asymmetric with respect to their angles and with respect to their distances to the listener . It should be noted that in another example the two locations may have the same distance to the listener while still having different angles with respect to the midline . When using an asymmetric arrangement acoustic imaging effects may be reduced. The conference server may be configured to appropriately encode the waiting room music in order to provide for a sufficiently high audio quality. Furthermore the conference server may be configured to inform the terminal of the listener that the received set of audio signals comprises music signals e.g. using metadata . In addition the conference server may be configured to inform the terminal of the listener about the spatial positions of the received set of audio signals e.g. using metadata .

In a further example the listener may be waiting to join a meeting and while waiting the listener may decide to listen to his her own local music. The local audio stream comprising the listener s own music may be mixed into the scene. The conference audio may be placed at a different location than the listener s own music so that the listener is aware when the conference is starting. By way of example the listener s own music may be placed behind the listener as illustrated e.g. in . Being able to mix in local audio may be a useful component of a scene that has been created at the endpoint i.e. at the terminal of the listener.

When there are active voice signals within the conference the placement of sound signals may be done using similar logic. That is the conference server may be configured to place sound signals e.g. notifications or background music into a conference scene comprising one or more talkers. When a mono notification sound such as a beep or a chime is placed into the auditory conference scene it is desirable that the insertion of the notification sound has minimal impact on the active voice signals while ensuring that the notification is heard. In other words a sound signal should be inserted into a conference scene such that the sound signal is perceived while at the same time causing reduced impact on the voice conversations of the conference participants.

In the present document it is proposed to use spatial separation of the sound signals from the talker locations in order to ensure that a listener can clearly distinguish the sound signal from the conversations of the conference participants. An example conference scene comprising a location for sound signals is illustrated in . In the conference scene the spatial location is separated from the talker locations . The angular separation of the sound location and an adjacent talker location may follow the above mentioned rules regarding the placement of talkers within a conference scene e.g. at least 5 degrees . One possibility could be to make use of a predefined X point scene e.g. a 3 point scene or a 6 point scene and to use one of the X talker locations of the predefined X point scene for rendering the sound signal. By way of example the scene manager may be configured to attribute a location of the X point scene to the sound signal in accordance to the distribution scheme outlined above wherein the sound signal is treated as an entering participant .

It should be noted however that when placing the sound signal at a location which depends on the number or participants that have already joined the conference it may occur that the spatial location of the sound signals e.g. of the notifications changes depending on the number of participants which have already been placed within the conference scene . This is clear when considering the distribution schemes outlined in the context of where the talker locations assigned to a participant depend on the number of participants which have already been placed within the conference scene. This could be disturbing to conference participants as the notifications of new joiners would alternate from side to side. On the other hand changing sound locations could be beneficial as the joining notification could be used to indicate the spatial position of the new participant i.e. the sound location for a joining notification could be used to indicate the spatial location of the joining participant.

Alternatively or in addition the spatial location of a sound signal could be based on spatial locations in the conference that have already been allocated to participants of the conference. The conference server may be configured to determine and or use talker activity of the participants and or the mute status of participants in order to determine whether the location of a participant could be temporarily borrowed for a sound signal. By way of example the conference server may be configured to determine that a participant at a first talker location is in mute. This could be determined by detecting the absence of an upstream voice signal coming from the terminal of the participant. In this case the conference server may place a time limited sound signal at the first talker location.

Although it may be disturbing to the listener of a conference scene if the notification sound location is not locked to a fixed and or consistent spatial location it may sometimes be preferable to deliberately place the notification sound to different spatial locations. As already indicated above the notification sound that indicates a new joiner to the conference scene may provide additional cues to a listener if the sound is placed into the scene at the same location that the voice signal of the new joiner will be assigned to. This would inform the listener of where the new joiner s voice will be heard from once the new owner is talking. Another example for the benefit of sound signals with changing sound locations could be a sound signal indicating that the participant at the particular location from which the sound signal emanates has muted. In general terms it may be beneficial that sound signals which are associated with a particular participant of the voice conference are placed at the same location within the conference scene as the particular participant of the voice conference.

Sound signals which are associated with particular participants of the voice conference and which make use of the spatial locations of the particular participants are not restricted to a single point within the scene but may be used to identify regions of the conference scene. By way of example the conference participants may be grouped into clusters or groups as illustrated in . For example a scene may be used to place participants from three departments within a company such as finance engineering and marketing. Each department may be assigned to its own cluster that spans a region within the scene . Participants from each department could be allocated to locations within their corresponding region . This could be used to provide a listener with audible information regarding the affiliation of a talker simply by distinguishing the rough spatial direction of the talker . A cluster group specific notification sound could be rendered with a spatial width around a target location wherein the spatial width and the target location describe the region of the respective cluster. By way of example notification sounds could be different for each cluster group and or could be rendered at a location that identifies which cluster the participant is allocated to. It should be noted that the segmentation of the conference scene is not restricted to departments but could also be extended for example to different companies families teams etc.

Alternatively or in addition the conference scene may specify a location for sound signals e.g. for all sound signals or for all sound signals which are not associated with a particular participant or a particular group of participants . This is illustrated in the conference scene of where a spatial location is reserved for some or all notifications. This may be preferable because a fixed location may be easily identified by the listener as the spatial position of system notifications thereby reducing the disturbance to the listener due to the notification. In the example conference scene of the fixed spatial location for sound signals is placed outside of the cone used for talker locations . This may be beneficial to further decrease the risk that a sound signal may disturb the conversation of the conference participants. Another benefit is that if the sound signals are located outside the cone the same stream of audio and spatial location metadata may be sent to all participants giving an efficiency and complexity benefit.

Notifications tend to be reasonably infrequent in audio conference systems so that notifications should not cause an imbalanced sound or audible holes in the conference scene due to large angular regions with no sound between the sound location and an adjacent talker location . However a preferred approach may be to have the notifications rendered at two e.g. slightly asymmetric locations on each side of the midline of the conference scene as shown in . As indicated above an asymmetric rendering may be preferable in view of acoustic imaging effects. By rendering a notification at two spatial locations on opposite sides of the listener the conference scene remains balanced even in case of notifications thereby reducing the risk that a conversation between the participants of the audio conference is disturbed. In addition to potentially providing a more balanced scene this would allow the use of stereo notifications providing a richer sound content to the listener .

The use of stereo or dual channel music or notifications can be extended further to deliberately place the sounds much further away from the cone of positions used for the voice conference. This would give the impression of actual background music. This could be used to provide some ambience to a multi party discussion without disturbing the intelligibility of the talkers in the audio conference. shows an example conference scene with two sound locations at either side of the listener . In the illustrated example the sound locations are positioned behind the listener s head i.e. at an angle greater than 90 degrees from the midline in front of the listener s head.

System sounds that are mono can be given some spatial spread in order to allocate a wider area of the spatial scene. This can be accomplished by allocating the same mono sound to adjacent locations within the scene. This is illustrated in the conference scene of where the system sound is provided with two spatial locations . Furthermore the width of the notification sound location within the scene can be dynamically changed in order to highlight a specific talker within the scene . An example of this is shown in the conference scene of where the talker location is surrounded by the sound locations . As a result the talker is surrounded by the notification sound e.g. by alternately panning from one side of the talker to the other side. This may be used to particularly emphasize an event or a characteristic e.g. chairperson of the talker at the talker location . An additional example for emphasizing a talker within the scene using the notification sound is shown in the conference scene of where the talker location is encompassed by two widened sound notifications rendered at the sound locations . A notification sound is placed on either side of a talker within the scene . The locations of the notification sound may be dynamically altered in unison to highlight the talker at location . By way of example the sound notifications may be panned between the different sound notifications thereby increasing and decreasing the perceived width of the notification sound.

The description illustrates how conference scenes may be managed for a binaural headphone listening configuration. A similar logic may be applied to a loudspeaker rendering system by specific placement of sounds in the auditory conference scene. It should be noted that although the scenes described in are based on an auditory cone of locations the logic and placement of sound sources is not restricted to such a cone. It is noted that sounds could be spatialised to any location around a listener . In particular the sound signals may be spatialised to sound locations at inclination angles greater smaller than zero degrees. In other words the sound signals may be placed at one or more layers above or below the listener .

In the context of various placement schemes for placing sound signals into a conference scene have been described. These placement schemes are directed at providing a spatial separation between the sound signals and the voice signals of an audio conference in order to reduce the disturbance of the voice conversation between the participants caused by the sound signals while at the same time ensuring that the sound signals are identified by a listener. Alternatively or in addition to an appropriate placement of sound signals within the conference scene the sound signals may be adapted in order to reduce the risk for spectral masking of the voice signals caused by the sound signals. In particular system sounds that are more musical in content can be spectrally enhanced such that the system sounds cause less masking to the active speech signals even if the system sounds were placed at a spatial location that coincides with an active talker. The spectral enhancement of the system sounds may comprise emphasizing spectral bands of the sound signal that are likely to cause less conflict with the voice signals and or attenuating spectral bands of the sound signal that are likely to cause conflict with the voice signals. For example the voice and sound signals could be transformed into the frequency domain such that they are represented as a set of time frequency components. The corresponding time slices of frequency content for the voice signals and sound signals could be analyzed in real time to identify the dominant signal at each frequency tile. The frequency tiles which contain a significantly dominant component of the sound signal e.g. where there is little or no speech information could be increased in level to emphasize the sound signal without affecting the dominant component of the voice signal. Hence by adapting the spectral composition of a sound signal e.g. a notification sound based on the spectral composition of the one or more voice signals in the conference scene the disturbing impact of a sound signal on the conversation within an audio conference can be reduced.

It should be noted that when adjusting the spectral composition of a sound signal the generation of a binaural signal which reflects the spatial location of the sound signal may be impacted. Typically for binaural signals the left and right ear channels of audio should be considered together in terms of adjusting the level of individual time frequency tiles. Otherwise the interaural level differences for a sound source could be altered in a way that changes the perceived spatial location of the sound signal.

A further measure for reducing a disturbing impact of a sound signal e.g. a notification on the audio conference may be to align the timing of the sound signals to the talker activity within the conference. In other words the timing of the notification sounds may be adapted to provide less impairment to the audio scene. For example it may be beneficial to wait for a gap in the active talker speech to play a new joiner notification. This could be subjected to a waiting time threshold of e.g. a few seconds meaning that after elapse of a maximum waiting time the notification regarding e.g. the new joiner would be inserted into the conference regardless of the actual talker activity. The approach of selecting an appropriate moment for entering a conference is similar to entering a real room where a meeting is in progress. The joining participant may wait for a convenient break in the discussion before entering the conference and causing a disturbing interruption. While the joining participant is waiting for the appropriate gap the conferencing server may provide the joint participant with an information audio stream for example we are waiting for a convenient moment for you to join the meeting . By doing this the joining participant is made aware why there is a delay.

In the present document various aspects for managing a 2D or 3D scene of an audio conference have been described. The aspects may be provided in the context of an API Application Programming Interface or a GUI Graphical User Interface in order to allow developers of a voice conference system or users of a voice conference system to manage the placement of voice signals originating from the different conference participants and or sound signals e.g. notifications voice prompts music into a conference scene. The present document provides rules and logic which may be used by a scene manager to define pre determined X point scenes and or to automatically position talkers and or sounds within the conference scene. The scene manager may be configured to use device specific spatial locations e.g. terminal specific locations within the scene and or device specific X point scenes which may be different depending on whether the scene is being rendered by headphones or by loudspeakers.

The methods and systems described in the present document may be implemented as software firmware and or hardware. Certain components may e.g. be implemented as software running on a digital signal processor or microprocessor. Other components may e.g. be implemented as hardware and or as application specific integrated circuits. The signals encountered in the described methods and systems may be stored on media such as random access memory or optical storage media. They may be transferred via networks such as radio networks satellite networks wireless networks or wireline networks e.g. the Internet. Typical devices making use of the methods and systems described in the present document are portable electronic devices or other consumer equipment which are used to store and or render audio signals.

