---

title: Smoke detector testing
abstract: A testing device is provided that may be attachable and detachable from a smoke detector. The testing device may have a rod that pushes a testing button on the smoke detector. The testing device may have a light detector which will actuate the rod to push the testing button if the light from an appropriate remote control or other light source is directed onto it, in order to verify that the smoke detector is operating properly without manually pushing the testing button. The testing device may store a unique identifier (ID) and generate and transmit data pertaining to results of the testing of the smoke detector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183737&OS=09183737&RS=09183737
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 09183737
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130618
---
The present application is a continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 247 417 filed Oct. 8 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 466 800 which is a divisional patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 139 901 filed Jun. 16 2008 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Further this application is related by subject matter to that disclosed in the following commonly assigned application the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 247 405 filed Oct. 8 2008.

A smoke detector is a device that detects smoke and issues an alarm to alert nearby people that there is a potential fire. Because smoke rises most smoke detectors are mounted on the ceiling or on a wall near the ceiling. Virtually all modern smoke detectors come equipped with a test button that activates a test function. The purpose of the test function is to provide a means to test the power supply and or the associated detection circuitry prior to actual smoke having been detected. Such testing is may be used to verify that the smoke detector is working properly. Such detection circuitry usually includes a manually operable push button switch for the purpose of initiating the detector test function.

Some smoke detectors include an integrated photosensor. A control beam of incident electromagnetic energy can be provided from a remotely located portable source such as a flashlight. Directing the beam of radiant energy from the flashlight against the smoke detector s photosensor causes the smoke detector to initiate a test sequence.

A testing device is provided that may be attachable and detachable from a smoke detector. The testing device may have a rod that pushes a testing button on the smoke detector. The testing device may have a light detector which will actuate the rod to push the testing button if the light from an appropriate remote control or other light source is directed onto it in order to verify that the smoke detector is operating properly without manually pushing the testing button. The testing device may store a unique identifier ID and generate and transmit data pertaining to results of the testing of the smoke detector.

In an implementation the testing device may receive infrared IR light from a remote control. The IR light may trigger the testing device to test the smoke detector.

In an implementation the remote control may be an IR enabled device. The remote control may be integrated within a mobile device such as a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA or a handheld computing device.

In an implementation the remote control may be integrated within or in communication with a computing device such as a personal computer PC a mobile phone PDA or handheld computing device. The remote control and or the computing device may collect store analyze and or display data pertaining to the testing of the smoke detector with the testing device.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Generally for example the smoke detector may have a circular plastic housing with a front side and a rear side . The housing has in the region of the front side thereof a plurality of slots which permit the entry of smoke heat and the like into the housing and permit an audible alarm sound generated by the smoke detector to leave the housing . In approximately the middle of the front side of the housing is a push to test button referred to herein as a testing button which can be manually pushed to trigger an alarm via a test circuit shown in in order to verify that the smoke detector is operating properly. Near the testing button may be an operating light emitting diode LED which may periodically flash to indicate the smoke detector is operating.

A testing device is separate from the smoke detector and is removable such that the testing device may be attachable and detachable from the smoke detector . The testing device may have a rod that pushes the testing button . The testing device may have a light detector which will actuate the rod to push the testing button if the light from an appropriate remote control or other light source is directed onto it in order to verify that the smoke detector is operating properly without manually pushing the testing button .

The testing device may store a unique identifier ID and generate and transmit data pertaining to results of the testing of the smoke detector. In an implementation the testing device may comprise a controller a processor one or program modules and or storage shown collectively as that may be appropriately configured to perform such functionality. For example the testing device may detect the alarm that results from the testing button being pushed if the smoke detector is operating properly. The testing device may record whether or not an alarm was detected pursuant to a test along with a date and time for example. Such data may be provided to a remote control and or a computing device as described further herein.

The testing device may be adapted to fit on any type of smoke detector as a flat pack with probes installed between the connection points of the testing button or as an extending piece for example that may be mounted on the smoke detector over the testing button or in proximity of the testing button . The testing device may be attached to the casing of the smoke detector by a user using an adhesive or other mechanical means and or hardware for example. The testing device may be detached or otherwise removed from the smoke detector by the user at any time. In an implementation the testing device may be powered by the smoke detector or may be powered by batteries.

In an alternative implementation when IR light is present the electronic switch may act as an electronic trigger that charges a test circuit in the smoke detector bypassing the testing button . In such a scenario the physical switch may not be used.

A remote control may act as the light source and may provide IR light to the testing device . A remote control is an electronic device typically powered by batteries that is used for the remote operation of a machine. Commonly remote controls are used to issue commands from a distance to televisions or other consumer electronics such as stereo systems and video players. Remote controls for these devices are usually small wireless handheld objects with an array of buttons for adjusting various settings such as channel track number and volume. Remote controls may be single channel single function one button or multi channel normal multi function .

Many remote controls communicate to their respective devices via IR signals. A near infrared diode may be used to emit a beam of light that reaches the device. Such a remote control may be used to emit a beam of light towards to the testing device . A 940 nm wavelength LED is typical although any wavelength s of IR may be used.

A universal remote is a remote control that can be programmed to operate various brands of one or more types of consumer electronics devices. Some universal remotes allow the user to program in new control codes to the remote control. Many remote controls sold with various electronic devices include universal remote capabilities for other types of devices which allow the remote control to control other devices beyond the device it came with. IR learning remotes can learn the code for any button on many other IR remote controls. This functionality allows the remote control to learn functions not supported by default for a particular device making it sometimes possible to control devices that the remote control was not originally designed to control. It is contemplated that any of these types of remote controls may be used in accordance with the examples and embodiments described herein.

The remote control may be an IR enabled device such as one of the IR remote controls described above. Alternatively or additionally the remote control may be integrated within a mobile device such as a mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA or a handheld computing device. It is contemplated that any light source that provides IR light may be used as the remote control .

In an implementation the remote control may be integrated within or in communication with a computing device such as a personal computer PC a mobile phone PDA or handheld computing device for example. The remote control and or the computing device may collect data pertaining to the testing of the smoke detector with the testing device . In an implementation the remote control may receive data from the testing device and may provide some or all of the data to the computing device . The remote control and or the computing device may store analyze and or display the collected data. An example computing device is described with respect to .

At the testing device may generate data pertaining to the test such as results e.g. pass or fail and date and time of testing and provide the data to the remote control at . The remote control may be in a mode to receive data e.g. a program mode and may receive and store the data at in associated internal or external storage and or may provide the data to a computing device at for subsequent storage display analysis etc. In an implementation the testing device may provide the data directly to the computing device. At any time shown at the testing device may be detached from the smoke detector e.g. by the user.

A remote control may activate any one of the testing devices A N at a particular time by providing IR light to the testing device thereby testing the smoke detector associated with that testing device. The remote control may be able to activate each of the testing devices A N. In an implementation the same IR e.g. frequency duration etc. may be used to activate each of the testing devices A N.

A computing device either integrated with the remote control or separate from the remote control may be in communication with the remote control and may receive and store data associated with the tests of the smoke detectors A N. Each testing device may send its ID to the remote control and or the computing device along with the data. The ID along with the associated data may be stored by the remote control and or the computing device . After receiving the data from the remote control and or the testing device s A N the computing device may use tools applications and aggregators for example to store analyze and or display the data.

At responsive to the test the testing device may generate data such as an ID results e.g. pass or fail and date and time of testing and provide the data to the remote control at . The remote control may store the data at in associated internal or external storage and or may provide the data to a computing device at for subsequent storage display analysis etc. In an implementation the data may be provided directly to the computing device from the testing device. At any time shown at one or more of the testing devices may be detached from their associated smoke detectors.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device.

One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

