---

title: Poly(vinyl benzoate) nanoparticles for molecular delivery
abstract: The present invention comprises poly(vinyl benzoate) nanoparticle suspensions as molecular carriers. These nanoparticles can be formed by nanoprecipitation of poly(vinyl benzoate) in water using Pluronic F68 as surfactant, to create spherical nanostructures measuring about 200-250 nm in diameter which are stable in phosphate buffer and blood serum, and only slowly degrade in the presence of esterases. Kinetics experiments in phosphate buffer indicate that 78% of the coumarin-6 was encapsulated within the polymer matrix of the nanoparticle, and the residual 22% of coumarin-6 was surface-bound and quickly released. The nanoparticles are non-toxic in vitro towards human epithelial cells (IC>1000 μg/mL) and primary bovine primary aortic endothelial cells (IC>500 μg/mL), and exert non-observable bactericidal activity against a selection of representative test microbes (MIC>250 μg/mL). Poly(vinyl benzoate) nanoparticles are suitable carriers for molecular delivery of lipophilic small molecules such as drugs pharmaceutical and imaging agents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09433581&OS=09433581&RS=09433581
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09433581
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130520
---
This application is a continuation of prior filed International Application Serial Number PCT US2011 061429 filed Nov. 18 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 415 003 entitled Poly Vinyl Benzoate Nanoparticles For Molecular Delivery filed Nov. 18 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference into this disclosure.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. 0620572 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a novel nanoparticle delivery carrier for small molecules such as pharmaceutical and imaging agents.

Biodegradable polymeric nanoparticles have been intensively studied as a possible way to reduce drug toxicity and degradation while enhancing the residence time and drug concentration at the desired site of action K. S. Soppimath T. M. Aminabhavi A. R. Kulkarni W. E. Rudzinski Biodegradable polymeric nanoparticles as drug delivery devices J. Control. Release 70 1 2 2001 1 20 J. Panyam V. Labhaserwar Biodegradable nanoparticles for drug and gene delivery to cells and tissue Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 55 3 2003 329 347 A. Kumari S. K. Yadav S. C. Yadav Biodegradable polymeric nanoparticles based drug delivery systems Colloids Surf. B Biointerfaces 75 1 2010 1 18 . Biodegradability is an important attribute of a nanoparticle carrier for several reasons including the ability to control release the bound molecule in a sustained programmable way and to provide the means for the final removal of the carrier from the body in an innocuous form. Several biodegradable polymers have been used for this application polylactides PLA co polymers of lactic glycolic acids PLGA and poly alkylcyanoacrylates PACA are among the most widely investigated for drug delivery. For these systems two degradation pathways have been identified the erosion of poly hydroxy acids due to a main chain scission mechanism and the PACA biodegradation by side chain cleavage V. Lenaerts P. Couvreur D. Christiaens Leyh E. Joiris M. Roland B. Rollman P. Speiser Degradation of poly isobutyl cyanoacrylate nanoparticles Biomaterials 5 2 1984 65 68 R. H. M ller C. Lherm J. Herbort P. Couvreur In vitro model for the degradation of alkylcyanoacrylate nanoparticles Biomaterials 11 8 1990 590 595 J. M. Anderson M. S. Shive Biodegradation and biocompatibility of PLA and PLGA microspheres Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 28 1 1997 5 24 M. L. T. Zweers G. H. M. Engbers D. W. Grijpma J. Feijen In vitro degradation of nanoparticles prepared from polymers based on DL lactide glycolide and poly ethylene oxide J. Control. Release 100 3 2004 347 356 .

Release of entrapped molecules from within the matrix occurs mainly with polymer degradation as has been reported for poly hydroxy acid nanoparticles J. M. Anderson M. S. Shive Biodegradation and biocompatibility of PLA and PLGA microspheres Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 28 1 1997 5 24 . Moreover it has been shown that PLA and PLGA nanoparticles significantly affect the viability of human granulocytes R. H. Mailer S. Maaben H. Weyhers F. Specht J. S. Lucks Cytotoxicity of magnetite loaded polylactide polylactide glycolide particles and solid lipid nanoparticles Int. J. Pharm. 138 1 1996 85 94 . The PACA polymers are non polar and more effective at entrapping hydrophobic compounds within the nanoparticles matrix and reportedly degrade rapidly. However toxicity in human fibroblasts due to byproducts resulting from degradation of the PACA backbone has been reported C. Lherm R. H. M ller F. Puisieux P. Couvreur Alkylcyanoacrylate drug carriers II. Cytotoxicity of cyanoacrylate nanoparticles with different alkyl chain length Int. J. Pharm. 84 1 1992 13 22 .

Polystyrene nanoparticles have also been investigated and likewise found to entrap lipophilic compounds to a greater extent compared to poly hydroxy acids nanoparticles D. A. Norris N. Puri M. E. Labib P. J. Sinko Determining the absolute surface hydrophobicity of microparticulates using thin layer wicking J. Control. Release 59 2 1999 173 185 M. C. Venier Julienne J. P. Benoit Preparation purification and morphology of polymeric nanoparticles as drug carriers Pharm. Acta Helv. 71 2 1996 121 128 . This can be attributable to their more hydrophobic nature which may be reinforced by aromatic interactions between pairs of benzene rings in polystyrene J. W. Longworth F. A. Bovey Conformations and interactions of excited states. I. Model compounds for polymers Biopolymers 4 10 1966 1115 1129 . The higher encapsulation of polystyrene nanoparticles could be also attributed to stabilizing interactions between its phenyl groups and heteroaromatic compounds K. Lee J. Hong Nonionic adsorption of aromatic amino acids on a cation exchange resin React. Funct. Polym. 28 1 1995 75 80 .

While the prior art nanoparticles can efficiently entrap lipophilic compounds there are still problems with the nanoparticles degrading and producing by products that may affect biological structures. Additionally some of the prior art nanoparticles degrade very rapidly thus flooding the subject with the pharmaceutical agent encapsulated within the nanoparticle. A slow controlled release is not possible with the nanoparticles of the prior art. Given the shortcomings of the prior art what is needed is a chemically stable biochemically degradable nanoparticle that can efficiently entrap lipophilic substrates.

A long felt but unfulfilled need exists for new chemically stable biochemically degradable nanoparticles for delivery of pharmaceutical agents such as imaging compounds antibiotics and anticancer drugs.

The present invention comprises poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticle suspensions as molecular carriers. These nanoparticles are formed by nanoprecipitation of poly vinyl benzoate in water using Pluronic F68 as surfactant to create spherical nanostructures measuring about 200 250 nm in diameter. These nanoparticles are stable in phosphate buffer and blood serum and only slowly degrade in the presence of esterases. Pluronic F68 stabilizes the nanoparticle and also protects it from enzymatic degradation.

Up to 1.6 by weight of a lipid soluble molecule such as coumarin 6 can be introduced into the nanoparticle during nanoprecipitation compared to a water soluble compound 5 6 carboxyfluorescein which gave almost no loading. Kinetics experiments in phosphate buffer indicate that 78 of the coumarin 6 was encapsulated within the polymer matrix of the nanoparticle and the residual 22 of coumarin 6 was surface bound and quickly released.

The nanoparticles are non toxic in vitro towards human epithelial cells IC 1000 g mL and primary bovine primary aortic endothelial cells IC 500 g mL and exert a non observable bactericidal activity against a selection of representative test microbes MIC 250 g mL . Poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles are suitable carriers for molecular delivery of lipophilic small molecules such as drugs pharmaceuticals and imaging agents.

In an embodiment a composition of nanoparticles is presented comprising at least one nanoparticle formed from poly vinyl benzoate and at least one surfactant a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a lipophilic molecule. The surfactant can be a pluronic such as Pluronic F68. The at least one nanoparticle may have a mean particle size of between about 50 nm and about 350 nm or between about 200 nm and about 250 nm. The size of the lipophilic molecule may be up to about 5 by weight. The lipophilic molecule may be an antibacterial agent or drug.

In another embodiment an in vivo molecular carrier is presented comprising a poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticle suspension. The nanoparticle suspension may be formed using Pluronic F68 as a surfactant. The molecular carrier may encapsulate a lipophilic small molecule.

In a further embodiment a method of generating a small molecular drug carrier is presented comprising nanoprecipitation of a polymer further comprising adding at least one surfactant to water where the at least one surfactant is pluronic F68 dissolving or diluting poly vinyl benzoate in acetone dissolving a predetermined quantity of lipid soluble molecule in the acetone adding the poly vinyl benzoate acetone solution to the water to form a mixture of pluronic F68 and poly vinyl benzoate stirring the mixture of pluronic F68 and poly vinyl benzoate and evaporating the acetone from the mixture of pluronic F68 and poly vinyl benzoate to leave a suspension of polyvinyl benzoate nanoparticles.

The poly vinyl benzoate can be added at about 0.5 w v to the acetone. The Pluronic F68 can be added at about 0.5 w v. The acetone can be evaporated overnight at room temperature.

The polyvinyl benzoate nanoparticles can be washed by centrifuging the suspension of polyvinyl benzoate nanoparticles at 10 000 rpm for 10 minutes resuspending the pellet formed from the centrifugation in distilled water and sonicating the pellet for 1 minute to disperse any aggregates.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a method of delivering a small molecule to a subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a nanoparticle suspension to a subject in need thereof wherein the nanoparticle suspension is formed of poly vinyl benzoate and Pluronic F68. The small molecule may be lipophilic.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that there are other embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

All numerical designations such as pH temperature time concentration and molecular weight including ranges are approximations which are varied up or down by increments of 1.0 or 0.1 as appropriate. It is to be understood even if it is not always explicitly stated that all numerical designations are preceded by the term about . It is also to be understood even if it is not always explicitly stated that the reagents described herein are merely exemplary and that equivalents of such are known in the art and can be substituted for the reagents explicitly stated herein.

Concentrations amounts solubilities and other numerical data may be expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. As an illustration a numerical range of about 1 to about 5 should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of about 1 to about 5 but also include the individual values and sub ranges within the indicated range to the tenth of the unit. Thus included in this numerical range are individual values such as 2 3 and 4 and sub ranges such as from 1 3 from 2 4 and from 3 5 etc. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value. Furthermore such an interpretation should apply regardless of the range or the characteristics being described.

The term about or approximately as used herein refers to being within an acceptable error range for the particular value as determined by one of ordinary skill in the art which will depend in part on how the value is measured or determined i.e. the limitations of the measurement system i.e. the degree of precision required for a particular purpose such as a pharmaceutical formulation. For example about can mean within 1 or more than 1 standard deviation per the practice in the art. Alternatively about can mean a range of up to 20 preferably up to 10 more preferably up to 5 and more preferably still up to 1 of a given value. Alternatively particularly with respect to biological systems or processes the term can mean within an order of magnitude preferably within 5 fold and more preferably within 2 fold of a value. Where particular values are described in the application and claims unless otherwise stated the term about meaning within an acceptable error range for the particular value should be assumed.

As used in the specification and claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example the term a nanoparticle includes a plurality of nanoparticles including mixtures thereof.

The term composition as used herein encompasses a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts.

The term stabilizer and surfactant are used interchangeably herein and refers to any substance i.e. a surface active substance capable of stabilizing a nanoparticle or an emulsion for preparing a nanoparticle. For example pluronics may be used as surface active substances surfactants .

The term nanoparticle as used herein refers to a particle or structure which is biocompatible with and sufficiently resistant to chemical and or physical destruction by the environment of such use so that a sufficient number of the nanoparticles remain substantially intact after delivery to the site of application or treatment and whose size is in the nanometer range. For the purposes of the present invention a nanoparticle typically ranges between about 1 nm to about 1000 nm preferably between about 50 nm and about 500 nm more preferably between about 50 nm and about 350 nm more preferably between about 200 nm and about 250 nm. The terms nanoparticle and nanostructure are used interchangeably herein.

The term nanoprecipitation as used herein refers to the process of forming nanoparticles through solvent displacement. In nanoprecipitation preformed polymers are converted into nanoparticles by dissolving the polymer in a water miscible organic solvent and adding this solution to water containing a suitable surfactant. Generally here a solution of poly vinyl benzoate was prepared in acetone and was introduced into an aqueous solution containing known concentrations of a surfactant such as Pluronic F68 under magnetic stirring.

The term lipophilic small molecule as used herein refers to compounds which dissolve in lipids fats oils and non polar solvents. The lipophilic small molecule may be a pharmaceutically active agent drug imaging agent therapeutic agent diagnostic agent compound or composition. The lipophilic small molecule may comprise up to about 5 by weight of the nanoparticle composition.

The term drug as used herein refers to a chemical entity of varying molecular size small and large naturally occurring or synthetic that exhibits a therapeutic effect in animals and humans. A drug may include but is not limited to a therapeutic protein peptide antigen or other biomolecule.

The term pluronics as used herein refers to a type of stabilizer that may be used during nanoparticle synthesis as an emulsion. Pluronics prevent the adsorption of opsonins onto the particle surface opsonization . The anti opsonic effect of this emulsifier enhances the blood circulation time of the nanoparticles considerably which make them suitable for intravenous injection. In addition pluronics reportedly increase the uptake of pharmacologically active molecules through biological membranes.

The term degradation as used herein refers to becoming soluble either by reduction of molecular weight as in the case of a polyester or by conversion of the hydrophobic groups to hydrophilic groups as in the case of PPS .

The term pharmaceutically active agent as used herein refers to a molecule a group of molecules a complex or substance that is administered to a subject for diagnostic therapeutic preventative medical or veterinary purposes and includes drugs and vaccines. Included are externally and internally administered topical localized and systemic human and animal pharmaceuticals treatments remedies nutraceuticals cosmeceuticals biologicals and diagnostics including preparations useful in clinical and veterinary screening prevention prophylaxis healing wellness detection imaging diagnosis therapy surgery monitoring cosmetics forensics and the like. The pharmaceutically active agents are preferably lipophilic for encapsulation within the nanoparticles of the present invention.

The term polymer as used herein refers to a relatively high molecular weight organic compound natural or synthetic whose structure can be represented by a repeated small unit the monomer. Synthetic polymers are typically formed by addition or condensation polymerization of monomers. The polymers used or produced in the present invention are biodegradable. The polymer is suitable for use in the body of a subject i.e. is biologically inert and physiologically acceptable non toxic and is biodegradable in the environment of use i.e. can be resorbed by the body.

The term copolymer as used herein refers to a polymer formed from two or more different repeating units monomer residues .

A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein is defined as any of the standard pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. The pharmaceutical compositions of the subject invention can be formulated according to known methods for preparing pharmaceutically useful compositions. The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can include diluents adjuvants and vehicles as well as carriers and inert non toxic solid or liquid fillers diluents or encapsulating material that does not react with the active ingredients of the invention. Examples include but are not limited to phosphate buffered saline physiological saline water and emulsions such as oil water emulsions. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersing medium containing for example ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils. Formulations are described in a number of sources that are well known and readily available to those skilled in the art. For example Martin E W 1995 Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Company 19ed. describes formulations which can be used in connection with the subject invention.

The term administration as used herein refers to the delivery of a composition of nanoparticles to an appropriate location of the subject or in vitro to which a desired effect is achieved. Routes of administration include but are not limited to intravenous intra arterial intracutaneous topical rectal vaginal buccal inhalation ocular and oral.

The therapeutically effective amount for purposes herein is thus determined by such considerations as are known in the art. A therapeutically effective amount of the nanoparticles of the present invention is that amount necessary to provide a therapeutically effective result in vivo. The amount of nanoparticles must be effective to achieve a response including but not limited to total prevention of e.g. protection against and to improved survival rate or more rapid recovery or improvement or elimination of symptoms associated with a given disorder or other indicators as are selected as appropriate measures by those skilled in the art. In accordance with the present invention a suitable single dose size is a dose that is capable of preventing or alleviating reducing or eliminating a symptom in a patient when administered one or more times over a suitable time period. One of skill in the art can readily determine appropriate single dose sizes for systemic administration based on the size of a mammal and the route of administration.

The preparation and properties of poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticle suspensions as molecular carriers are described for the first time. These nanoparticles can be formed by nanoprecipitation of commercial poly vinyl benzoate in water using Pluronic F68 as surfactant to create spherical nanostructures measuring about 200 250 nm in diameter. These nanoparticles are stable in phosphate buffer and blood serum and only slowly degrade in the presence of esterases. Pluronic F68 stabilizes the nanoparticle and also protects it from enzymatic degradation. Up to about 1.6 by weight of a lipid soluble molecule such as coumarin 6 can be introduced into the nanoparticle during nanoprecipitation compared to a water soluble compound 5 6 carboxyfluorescein which gave almost no loading. Kinetics experiments in phosphate buffer indicate that about 78 of the coumarin 6 was encapsulated within the polymer matrix of the nanoparticle and the residual about 22 of coumarin 6 was surface bound and quickly released. The nanoparticles are non toxic in vitro towards human epithelial cells IC50N1000 g mL and primary bovine aortic endothelial cells IC50N500 g mL and non bactericidal against a selection of representative test microbes MIC N250 g mL . These properties suggest that the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles may be suitable carriers for molecular delivery of lipophilic small molecules such as pharmaceutical and imaging agents.

Given the prior art relating to nanoparticles the inventors sought to develop poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles that like polystyrene nanoparticles could efficiently entrap lipophilic substrates such as drug molecules T. Hirose K. Mizoguchi Y. Kamiya Gas transport in poly vinyl benzoate J. Appl. Poly. Sci. 30 1 1985 401 410 while having the potential to bioerode by lateral chain cleavage similar to that of PACA but giving non toxic by products polyvinyl alcohol and benzoic acid .

In this report the methodology for the formation of poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles is described along with an investigation into their aqueous stability and enzymatic degradability. These nanoparticles were prepared by the nanoprecipitation method affording stable aqueous suspensions of polymeric nanospheres in one step H. Fessi F. Puisieux J. P. Devissaguet N. Ammoury S. Benita Nanocapsule formation by interfacial polymer deposition following solvent displacement Int. J. Pharm. 55 1 1989 R1 4 . Phluronic F68 was incorporated in the aqueous phase as a co emulsifier in the nanofabrication process. This surfactant presents numerous advantages as a surface coating agent for nanoparticle based drug delivery. The hydrophilic layer of pluronic prevents the adsorption of opsonins onto the particle surface opsonization and therefore should prevent rapid clearance by the macrophages in the reticuloendothelial system RES especially in the spleen and in the liver. The anti opsonic effect of this emulsifier enhances the blood circulation time of the nanoparticles considerably which make them suitable for intravenous injection D. E. Owens III N. A. Peppas Opsonization biodistribution and pharmacokinetics of polymeric nanoparticles Int. J. Pharm. 307 1 2006 93 102 . In addition pluronics reportedly increase the uptake of pharmacologically active molecules through biological membranes E. Jeon H. D. Kim J. S. Kim Pluronic grafted poly L lysine as a new synthetic gene carrier J. Biomed. Mater. Res. 66A 4 2003 854 859 and have been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for medical applications.

In order to analyze the nanoparticulate system for potential application in sustained drug release the particle size and their surface charge properties were measured by dynamic light scattering and their surface morphology was characterized by scanning electron microscopy. Fluorescent probes coumarin 6 and 5 6 carboxyfluorescein as hydrophobic and hydrophilic drug models respectively were also used to encapsulate inside the poly vinyl benzoate matrix. The drug content and loading efficiency for each compound was then determined. The mechanism of biodegradation was further studied by enzymatic degradation and the released benzoic acid was used as the marker of erosion. Following this the in vitro stability of the nanoparticles in serum was assayed to evaluate their potential for systemic applications.

Poly vinyl benzoate average molecular weight 20 000 70 000 was obtained from Monomer Polymer and Dajac Labs Inc. Feasturville Pa. . Acetone dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO methanol dichloromethane ethanol phosphate buffered saline PBS coumarin 6 5 6 carboxyfluorescein benzoic acid vinyl benzoate Pluronic F68 Tween 80 rat blood serum and esterase from porcine liver E.C. 232 77 7 were purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . Trifluoroacetic acid TFA acetonitrile and water for chromatographic analysis were HPLC grade from Sigma Aldrich as well. Potassium hydroxide was procured from Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. and pig liver esterase was supplied by Lee Biosolutions Inc. St. Louis Mo. .

The nanoparticles were prepared by the nanoprecipitation method using solvent displacement as reported earlier H. Fessi F. Puisieux J. P. Devissaguet N. Ammoury S. Benita Nanocapsule formation by interfacial polymer deposition following solvent displacement Int. J. Pharm. 55 1 1989 R1 4 . Briefly a solution of poly vinyl benzoate was prepared in acetone and was introduced into an aqueous solution containing known concentrations of Pluronic F68 under magnetic stirring. The rate of addition of organic phase to aqueous phase volume ratios and the stirring speed were optimized to ensure batch to batch reproducibility. Typically a 0.5 w v solution of poly vinyl benzoate in 20 mL of acetone was introduced into an aqueous solution of Pluronic F68 40 ml at 0.5 w v . The rate of addition was controlled through a syringe pump at about 1 mL min and stirring was maintained at a speed that facilitated formation of a vortex in the solution. The acetone was evaporated overnight under stirring at room temperature to leave a suspension of polyvinyl benzoate nanoparticles. The suspension of nanoparticles was centrifuged at 10 000 rpm for 10 minutes Eppendorf Centrifuge 5424 and the resulting pellet was resuspended in distilled water and sonicated for 1 minute to disperse any aggregates. Centrifugation was repeated two more times at 10 000 rpm to remove the excess Pluronic F68. After the final centrifugation the nanoparticles were resuspended in 10 mL of distilled water and sonicated for 2 minutes. The suspension was then frozen at 70 C. and subsequently lyophilized for 24 hours. The lyophilized nanoparticles were stored desiccated as a dried white powder at room temperature. Drug loaded nanoparticles were prepared by pre dissolving a known quantity typically about 2 mg of coumarin 6 or 5 6 carboxyfluorescein in acetone containing the poly vinyl benzoate before introduction into aqueous medium.

To determine the physical properties of the polyvinyl benzoate nanoparticles freeze dried samples of the nanoparticles were dispersed in deionized water and sonicated for 5 minutes. Measurements were made by dynamic laser light scattering DLS using a Malvern Nano ZS instrument. Analysis was performed in triplicate and results are expressed as the mean volumetric diameter. Zeta potential measurements were done by micro electrophoresis on the same instrument. For each sample the average of twelve determinations was reported.

Surface morphology of the polyvinyl benzoate nanoparticles was observed by scanning electron microscopy on a Hitachi S800 SEM instrument. Samples were prepared by placing a drop of the re dispersed nanoparticles 10 g mL on a silicon wafer and allowing the water to evaporate at room temperature for approximately 12 hours.

To determine the entrapment content and loading efficiency nanoparticle samples loaded with coumarin 6 or 5 6 carboxyfluorescein were prepared as follows 1 mg of polyvinyl benzoate nanoparticle was dissolved in 1 mL of dichloromethane and this mixture was stirred for 5 hours to swell the nanoparticles and release the entrapped molecule fluorophore . This solution was left for evaporation and the residue was then solubilized in 1 ml of acetonitrile. High performance liquid chromatography HPLC was done on a Shimadzu Prominence system with a reverse phase Shimadzu column C18 0.46 5 cm . Samples were eluted using a gradient from 100 of a 10 mM PBS solution pH 7.4 to 100 of acetonitrile in 10 minutes at a flow rare of 1 mL minute. The detection was performed using a Shimadzu SPD 20A UV visible detector at 444 nm coumarin 6 or at 492 nm 5 6 carboxyfluorescein . The concentration of the fluorescent probe was determined by comparison to known concentrations of each reference compound using standardized curves . The amount of entrapment of coumarin 6 or 5 6 carboxyfluoroscein in the nanoparticles and their overall loading efficiencies were calculated as follows Entrapment content mass of fluorescent probe in nanoparticles mass of recovered nanoparticles 100 Loading efficiency mass of fluorescent probe in nanoparticles mass of fluorescent probe used in the formulation 100 In Vitro Release Study

The profile for release of the fluorophore in each sample was obtained by dispersing 2 mg of coumarin 6 or 5 6 carboxyfluorescein loaded nanoparticles in 1 mL of PBS pH 7.4 containing 0.1 w v of Tween 80 in a centrifuge tube. The suspensions were stirred magnetically at 150 rpm for 96 hours with a constant temperature of 37 C. Tween 80 was added to the suspension to ensure sink conditions as reported elsewhere Y. Dong S. S. Feng Poly D L lactide co glycolide PLGA nanoparticles prepared by high pressure homogenization for paclitaxel chemotherapy Int. J. Pharm. 342 1 2 2007 208 214 . At designated time intervals the samples were centrifuged at 10 000 rpm for 5 minutes the supernatant was withdrawn and the same amount of fresh medium was added. The percentage of fluorescent probe released into the supernatant was determined by HPLC as previously described in 2.5 and the amount of coumarin 6 released was then correlated to the amount entrapped before and after in vitro release.

To study potential degradation properties of the nanoparticle samples 1 mg of purified lyophilized poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles unloaded was reconstituted in 1 mL of PBS pH 7.4 containing 100 U mL of pig liver esterase. Three identical samples at three different concentrations 100 g mL 500 g mL 1 mg mL were incubated at 37 C. for 32 days. Every 24 hours each batch was centrifuged to separate the supernatant from the nanoparticles and fresh medium containing 100 U mL of pig liver esterase was added. The enzymatic cleavage of the ester bonds of the poly vinyl benzoate backbone causes the release of benzoic acid and polyvinyl alcohol which was followed and the data plotted in . The UV detectable benzoic acid was used as an indicator of bioerosion and its concentration was determined by HPLC. For this chromatographic experiment the UV detection was performed at 235 nm and the elution was done with a gradient from 100 of 0.5 v v aqueous TFA solution to 100 of acetonitrile. The percentage of degradation is expressed as a percentage of benzoic acid release. The theoretical full release of benzoic acid was determined by total erosion of 1 mg mL of poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles in 1N potassium hydroxide in methanol. Benzoic acid concentration was established by using a calibration curve.

The degradation of the poly vinyl benzoate in the presence of pig liver esterase was also investigated as a control. The procedure used was as described above and the experiment was extended to 14 days. It was observed that after two weeks in the presence of the esterase no notable difference of this sample compared to the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles made without Pluronic F68 surfactant.

To evaluate their stability and simulate their fate in the case of intravenous administration lyophilized nanoparticles made with Pluronic F68 were suspended in deionized water and then added to rat blood serum at a final concentration of 1 mg mL in a water serum ratio of 1 4 v v . Three suspensions were kept at 37 C. with magnetic stirring. After 1 3 and 8 days the nanoparticle samples were washed twice with deionized water by centrifugation at 10 000 rpm for 5 minutes. The remaining pellets were submitted to SEM analysis.

Each of the nanoparticle samples were examined for antimicrobial activity by testing against ATCC 25923 and K12 ATCC 23590 by Kirby Bauer antimicrobial susceptibility testing on agar plates and by determination of minimum inhibitory concentration values by agar serial dilution. These procedures were adapted directly from NCCLS protocols National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for bacteria that grow aerobically sixth edition 2003 Approved Standard M7 A6 15 NCCLS Wayne Pa. USA .

From a freezer stock in tryptic soy broth Difco Laboratories Detroit Mich. and 20 glycerol a culture of each microorganism was grown on tryptic soy agar TSA plates Becton Dickinson Laboratories Cockeysville Md. at 37 C. for 24 hours. A 10suspension was then made in sterile phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 and swabbed across fresh TSA plates. Four equidistantly spaced circular wells 6 mm in diameter were cut into the inoculated plates and 20 50 or 100 L volumes of a 1 mg mL stock solution of the test compound in DMSO was pipetted into the wells. 10 L of a 1 mg mL solution of penicillin G in sterile phosphate buffered saline PBS was added to the fourth well as a control . The plates were covered and then incubated for 24 hours at 37 C. Antimicrobial susceptibilities were determined by measuring the diameter in mm of any cleared circular zones of growth inhibition appearing around each well.

Sample tests were performed in 24 well plates Costar 3524 Cambridge Mass. by adding known concentrations of the nanoparticle suspensions to Mueller Hinton II agar Becton Dickinson Laboratories Cockeysville Md. for a total volume of 1 mL in each well. The final concentrations of solid nanoparticles used in each line of wells were 256 128 64 32 16 8 and 4 g mL. Following the preparation of the well plates the media was allowed to solidify at room temperature for 24 hours before incubation. From a 24 hour culture of each microorganism on TSA plates the test bacterial strains were grown overnight in 5 mL of tryptic soy broth at 37 C. to 10CFU mL as monitored by optical density measurement at 600 nm on a Bio Tek Biomate 3 spectrophotometer. 1 L of each culture was then applied to the appropriate well of agar and incubated at 37 C. overnight. After 24 h the wells were examined for growth. The MIC value is defined as the lowest concentration in g mL where there was no visible growth of bacteria in the wells.

Human epithelial cells HaCaT from Lonza Walkersville Inc were grown in culture medium Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM containing 10 v v fetal bovine serum FBS and 50 g mL gentamycin at 37 C. with a 5 COatmosphere for several days until cells were confluent. The cells were harvested and re suspended in DMEM containing 10 v v fetal bovine serum FBS and 0.1 w v gentamycin. The cells were counted using a hemocytometer the total number of cells was determined and the cells were seeded into 96 well plates at 50 000 cells per well. Each well contained 150 L DMEM with 10 v v FBS and 0.1 w v gentamycin. Cells were allowed to grow for 24 hours prior to treatment with the nanoparticles suspensions. Testing of each dispersion at different concentrations 1 0.5 0.25 0.125 mg mL was performed in triplicate. The plates were then incubated at 37 C. and observed under the microscope at various time points. After 48 hours 15 L of a 5 mg mL solution of 3 4 5 dimethyl 2 thiazolyl 2.5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide MTT in phosphate buffered saline 10 of the total culture volume was added to each well. The plates were incubated for 4 hours to allow sufficient time for the conversion of the MTT dye yellow liquid to the water insoluble formazan derivative 1 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 3 5 diphenylformazan purple solid by the mitochondrial dehydrogenases in the living cells. After incubation purple crystals were observed and the media was removed from each well by aspiration. The crystals were then dissolved by adding 100 L of DMSO to each well. DMSO was also added to the wells designated as reference blanks. Viable cell count was determined spectrophotometrically using a microplate reader by measuring the absorbance at two discrete wavelengths 595 and 630 nm . For each dispersion at each concentration the absorbance values were averaged and the percent cell viability was determined as a percentage of the average absorbance obtained from the untreated cells.

Primary bovine aortic endothelial cells and EBM 2 cell culture medium were obtained from Lonza Walkersville Inc. Cells were maintained in culture medium supplemented with 10 FBS and 100 IU penicillin 100 g mL streptomycin sulfate in a humidified incubator containing 5 COat 37 C. For cytotoxicity testing cells were trypsinized counted centrifuged at 120 g and resuspended in fresh culture medium. Cells were plated in a volume of 100 mL 2.5 10cells well in 96 well flat bottom culture dishes. After 16 18 h of incubation 100 L of medium or medium containing test samples was added to each well. Testing of each dispersion at different concentrations 1 0.5 0.25 0.125 g mL was performed in triplicate. After 48 h 20 L of MTT 1.25 4 mg mL in DPBS was added to each well and the cells were further incubated for 2 3.5 h. The medium was aspirated and the formazan product generated in each well was dissolved in 100 L of DMSO. Plates were read in a BioTek Synergy 2 SLFA plate reader set at 540 nm background subtract at 660 nm . Cell viability was calculated as a percentage of the control sample sample absorbance control medium absorbance 100 .

Research has recently focused on the preparation and studies of nanoparticle bound antibiotics for controlling the growth of certain pathogenic bacteria including methicillin resistant MRSA and E. Turos J. Y. Shim Y. Wang K. Greenhalgh G. S. K. Reddy S. Dickey D. V. Lim Antibiotic conjugated polyacrylate nanoparticles new opportunities for development of anti MRSA agents Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 17 1 2007 53 56 E. Turos G. S. K. Reddy K. Greenhalgh P. Ramaraju S. C. Abeylath S. Jang D. V. Lim Penicillin bound polyacrylate nanoparticles restoring the activity of lactam antibiotics against MRSA Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 17 12 2007 3468 3472 S. C. Abeylath. E. Turos Glycosylated polyacrylate nanoparticles by emulsion polymerization Carb. Polym. 70 1 2007 32 37 S. C. Abeylath E. Turos S. Dickey. D. V. Lim Glyconanobiotics novel carbohydrated nanoparticle antibiotics for MRSA and Bioorg. Med. Chem. 16 5 2008 2412 2418 J. Garay Jimenez A. Young D. Gergeres E. Turos Methods for purifying and detoxifying sodium dodecyl sulfate stabilized polyacrylate nanoparticles Nanomed Nanotech. Biol. Med. 4 2 2008 98 105 . Prior investigations have all centered on polyacrylate nanoparticles prepared as an aqueous emulsion by free radical polymerization in water. Sodium dodecyl sulfate is a typical surfactant for this although other tensoactive agents can be used J. Garay Jimenez D. Gergeres A. Young S. Dickey D. V. Lim E. Turos. Physical properties and biological activity of poly butyl acrylate styrene nanoparticle emulsions prepared with conventional and polymerizable surfactants Nanomed Nanotech. Biol. Med. 5 4 2009 443 451 .

One of the goals is to develop suitable nanoparticle systems to protect and deliver antibiotic agents to sites of infection where they can act directly on the microbe K. Greenhalgh E. Turos In viva studies of polyacrylate nanoparticle emulsions for topical and systemic applications Nanomed Nanotech. Biol. Med. 5 1 2009 46 54 . A previous investigation reported on the formulation of poly butyl acrylate styrene nanoparticles as an antibiotic delivery system altering the types of monomers and surfactants used to induce changes in particle characteristics and antibacterial properties. It was desirable to extend those experiments toward the design of polymeric nanoparticles that could not only carry potentially chemically labile antibiotics but also might be able to undergo degradation to release the entrapped molecule. Thus the starting point was to replace the butyl acrylate styrene monomers used to make the nanoparticles by emulsion polymerization with a different potentially biodegradable variant such as vinyl benzoate. Attempts to prepare stable suspensions of poly vinyl benzoate under previously defined emulsion polymerization conditions E. Turos J. Y. Shim Y. Wang K. Greenhalgh G. S. K. Reddy S. Dickey D. V. Lim Antibiotic conjugated polyacrylate nanoparticles new opportunities for development of anti MRSA agents Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 17 1 2007 53 56 using 3 weight of sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS as an emulsifying agent were unsuccessful. The use of Pluronic F68 as the surfactant was changed resulting in the formation of nanoparticles with a mean diameter of 40 nm and a zeta potential of approximately 20 mV. Unfortunately these nanoparticle emulsions were not stable after purification by centrifugation or dialysis. Consequently alternative means for forming nanoparticles were analyzed based on the poly vinyl benzoate matrix and the nanoprecipitation method was investigated. With this technique preformed polymers are converted into nanoparticles by dissolving the polymer in a water miscible organic solvent and adding this solution to water containing a suitable surfactant.

Acetone was used as the solvent for the polymer and satisfactory results were obtained with Pluronic F68. Nanoparticles were also formed without using an added surfactant in order to study the influence of Pluronic F68 on the degradation properties of the nanoparticles. Other solvents that may be used in the present invention include but are not limited to hardly water soluble organic solvents having a low boiling point such as halogenated alkanes methanol ethanol ethyl acetate diethyl ether cyclohexane benzene and toluene.

The physical characterization data of the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles formed in this manner are described in Table 1. The size range of about 200 250 nm as analyzed by dynamic light scattering with a polydispersity index of around 0.2 indicate a highly homogeneous size distribution of nanoparticles. Scanning electron microscope SEM images showed spherical nanoparticles with a uniformly smooth surface and confirmed the mean diameter of about 200 250 nm. In contrast poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles prepared in the absence of Pluronic F68 were significantly larger in diameter with a mean diameter of 490 nm. Thus the surfactant not only stabilizes the nanostructures in aqueous media but also significantly reduces the overall dimensions of the nanoparticles.

Particle size is an important physical property of nanoparticles directly affecting the cellular uptake capabilities and ultimately biodistribution. Cellular uptake is generally much greater for nanoparticles compared to microparticles M. P. Desai V. Labhasetwar E. Walter R. J. Levy G. L. Amidon The mechanism of uptake of biodegradable microparticles in Caco 2 cells is size dependent Pharm. Res. 14 11 1997 1568 1573 . Hence good cell penetration of the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles is expected due to their small size range and Pluronic F68 is known to facilitate cell penetration as well as enhance in vivo stability and circulation lifetimes of the surfacted nanoparticles E. Jeon H. D. Kim J. S. Kim Pluronic grafted poly L lysine as a new synthetic gene carrier J. Biomed. Mater. Res. 66A 4 2003 854 859 .

The zeta potential values for the coated nanoparticles were under 30 mV for each emulsion while 0.10 mV was obtained for the suspension without surfactant. The zeta potential is a very important factor to evaluate the stability of colloidal dispersion because particles are efficiently resuspended when the absolute value of the zeta potential is at least 30 mV due to the strong electric repulsion between particles R. H. M ller C. Jacobs O. Kayser Nanosuspensions as particulate drug formulations in therapy rationale for development and what we can expect for the future Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 47 1 2001 3 19 . Therefore knowledge of the zeta potential can help to predict if the drug delivery system is suitable for intravenous administration due to the risk of nanoparticle agglomerations which could result in microembolisms P. Beck. J. Kreuter R. Reszka I. Fichtner Influence of polybutylcyanoacrylate nanoparticles and liposomes on the efficacy and toxicity of the anticancer drug mitoxantrone in murine tumour models J. Microencapsul. 10 1 1993 101 114 .

Previous studies evaluated the potential cytotoxicity of nanoparticle emulsions and methods to remove unwanted cidal impurities created during emulsion polymerization J. Garay Jimenez A. Young D. Gergeres E. Turos Methods for purifying and detoxifying sodium dodecyl sulfate stabilized polyacrylate nanoparticles Nanomed Nanotech. Biol. Med. 4 2 2008 98 105 . Ideally nanoparticles and all components of the media should induce no observable toxic effects on cells at or near the concentration levels needed for drug delivery. To ascertain this potential for poly vinyl benzoate nanoprecipitates the samples were subjected to microbiological and mammalian toxicity assays. In vitro screening of the suspensions against representative bacteria indicate that the samples are not cidal to the microbes nor do they inhibit bacterial growth on agar. Minimum inhibition concentration MIC values are above 256 g mL which is above the upper limit of the testing.

PACA nanoparticles have been found to have elevated cytotoxicity toward mammalian cell lines in particular human fibroblasts and epithelial tissue C. Lherm R. H. Miller F. Puisieux P. Couvreur Alkylcyanoacrylate drug carriers II. Cytotoxicity of cyanoacrylate nanoparticles with different alkyl chain length Int. J. Pharm. 84 1 1992 13 22 M. Brzoska K. Langer C. Coester S. Loitsch T. O. F. Wagner C. V. Mallinckrodta Incorporation of biodegradable nanoparticles into human airway epithelium cells in vitro study of the suitability as a vehicle for drug or gene delivery in pulmonary diseases Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 318 2 2004 562 570 . Therefore further in vitro testing was conducted on the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles using human epithelial cells HaCaT to assess possible toxicity over a range of about 125 to 1000 g mL. IC50 values for the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles were greater than 1000 g mL and even at this ultrahigh concentration microscopic observation of the treated cells showed no discernible differences versus those of untreated cells.

In vitro cytotoxicity studies were also conducted against primary bovine aortic endothelial cells over a range of nanoparticle concentrations ranging from 2 to 1000 g mL. IC50 values of the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles was above 500 g mL. Microscopic imaging of the treated cells showed no discernible differences after 48 hours versus those of untreated cells at any of the concentrations. Poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles are considered as non cytotoxic in vitro given that 500 g mL represents a much higher intravenous material dose than required for in vivo drug delivery J. M. Chan L. Zhang K. P. Yuet G. Liao J. W. Rhee R. Langer O. C. Farokhzad PLGA lecithin PEG core shell nanoparticles for controlled drug delivery Biomaterials 30 8 2009 1627 1634 .

Two fluorescent markers have been used to evaluate the potential usefulness of the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles in drug delivery. Coumarin 6 and 5 6 carboxyfluorescein were chosen to mimic hydrophobic and hydrophilic drugs respectively. Their lipophilicity has been previously established with the octanol water partition coefficient P method which is expressed as the logarithm base 10 log P . The reported log P for coumarin 6 is 3.45 C. Lombry C. Bosquillon V. Pr at R. Vanbever Confocal imaging of rat lungs following intratracheal delivery of dry powders or solutions of fluorescent probes J. Control. Release 2002 83 3 331 341 and 5.43 for 5 6 carboxyfluorescein K. Lahnstein T. Schmehl U. Rtlsch M. Rieger W. Seeger T. Gessler Pulmonary absorption of aerosolized fluorescent markers in the isolated rabbit lung Int. J. Pharm. 2008 351 1 2 158 164 .

It was observed that nanoprecipitation of 100 mg of poly vinyl benzoate in the presence of Pluronic F68 and an initial amount of 2 mg of coumarin 6 occurred with a substantial encapsulation efficiency 78 corresponding to a drug loading content of 1.56 of the dry polymer weight. Up to about 5 by weight of a drug may be encapsulated within the nanoparticle. shows the in vitro release profile of coumarin 6 in PBS at 37 C. from fluorescently labelled nanoparticles a burst release of about 10 was observed in the first few hours followed by a much slower rate of release. Thus even after 96 hours less than 15 of the entrapped coumarin 6 is released from the nanoparticle.

In contrast. 5 6 carboxyfluorescein allowed a poor loading efficiency 0.25 leading to a total loading amount of 0.005 of the dry polymer weight Table 2 . The limit of detection by HPLC was further quantified corresponding to about 5 of molecular release and thus less than 5 of the entrapped 5 6 carboxyfluorescein being liberated. The low amounts of burst release of the fluorophores from the nanoparticles indicates that the compounds are loaded by encapsulation rather than surface sorption. This supports the expectation that hydrophobic compounds would be confined inside the matrix of hydrophobic nanoparticles rather than associated loosely to the ionically charged surface J. Panyam V. Labhasetwar Biodegradable nanoparticles for drug and gene delivery to cells and tissue Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 55 3 2003 329 347 K. Y. Win S. S. Feng Effects of particle size and surface coating on the cellular uptake of polymeric nanoparticles for oral delivery of anticancer drugs Biomaterials 26 15 2005 2713 2722 .

It was initially postulated that poly vinyl benzoate would likely biodegrade through a mechanism similar to that of PACA i.e enzymatic hydrolysis of the ester bond between the benzoate side chain and the polymeric backbone with release of benzoic acid and poly vinyl alcohol . However there was no a priori information available indicating whether poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles could undergo appreciable enzymatic degradation in media containing esterases or be highly resistant to hydrolytic degradation. To investigate this the inventors incubated the freshly prepared poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles in the presence of pig liver esterase at pH 7.4 in PBS as a model medium. The release of benzoic acid from the degradation of the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles was followed by HPLC. For this three concentrations of nanoparticles 100 500 and 1000 g mL in PBS were incubated at 37 C. with pig liver esterase 100 U mL . Every 24 hour the supernatant was withdrawn and replaced with fresh medium containing 100 U mL of pig liver esterase.

The inventors observed that the highest concentration of polymer produced the most significant amount of benzoic acid as detected by HPLC. To investigate the influence of Pluronic F68 on the enzymatic process the same analysis was performed with poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles prepared without surfactant. In this case after incubation with esterases for 7 days 4 of the benzoic acid was released as evidenced by HPLC analysis. After the same duration assays with pluronic coated nanoparticles liberated only 0.5 of benzoic acid. After 32 days it was observed that 18 of the surfactant free nanoparticles degraded while only 2 of the benzoic acid was detected for the nanoparticles with Pluronic F68 . These data suggest that it would take about 5 months for the full release of benzoic acid in the case of nanoparticles without surfactant and about 4 years for the pluronic coated nanoparticles when esterase is present in the media.

The relative difference in enzymatic degradation rates observed between the stabilized versus unstabilized nanoparticles shows the propensity for pluronics to resist enzymatic degradation. Indeed previous studies have shown that the surface properties of polymeric nanomaterials greatly influence the rate of degradation and systemic lifetimes Z. Gan D. Yu Z. Zhong Q. Liang X. Jing Enzymatic degradation of poly s caprolactone poly DL lactide blends in phosphate buffer solution Polymer 40 10 1999 2859 2862 . Furthermore the slow degradation of the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles by esterases indicates the difficulty for enzymatic process to take place on a hydrophobic polymer nanoparticle. Other chemical and enzymatic components in a complex living system may increase metabolic rates as has been observed for poly caprolactone J. S. Chawla M. M. Amiji Biodegradable poly caprolactone nanoparticles for tumor targeted delivery of tamoxifen Int. J. Pharm. 249 1 2002 127 138 . Nevertheless with the observation that the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles undergo albeit sluggish side chain scission of the benzoate ester linkage a metabolic pathway is proposed for the nanoparticle degradation . The molecular weight of the hydrolysis by product poly vinyl alcohol should be below the renal threshold barrier and subsequently eliminated from the body primarily by renal excretion without metabolic modification A. Besheer K. Mider S. Kaiser J. Kressler C. Weis E. K. Odermatt Tracking the urinary excretion of high molar mass poly vinyl alcohol J. Biomed. Mater. Res. 82B 2 2007 383 389 T. Yamaoka Y. Tabat Y. Ikada Comparison of body distribution of poly vinyl alcohol with other water soluble polymers after intravenous administration J. Pharm. Pharmacol. 47 6 1995 479 486 . The second byproduct benzoic acid undergoes metabolic conversion to a benzoyl coenzyme A CoA adduct which is transamidated with glycine to produce hippuric acid a compound that is exported from the liver to the kidney to be excreted in the urine L. Kr henb hl J. Reichen C. Talos S. KrihenbUhl Benzoic acid metabolism reflects mitochondrial function in rats with long term extrahepatic cholestasis Hepatology 25 2 1997 278 283 .

The stability of poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles in serum was evaluated to further predict their potential for intravenous administration. Freeze dried nanoparticles were resuspended in deionized water then mixed with rat serum and incubated at 37 C. The nanoparticles are stable in serum even after 8 days keeping their original shape and size as seen in the SEM micrograph . Retaining their smooth morphological features and non agglomerated state should reduce the risk of microembolism and organ infraction caused by large coagulates in the blood P. Beck J. Kreuter R. Reszka I. Fichtner Influence of polybutylcyanoacrylate nanoparticles and liposomes on the efficacy and toxicity of the anticancer drug mitoxantrone in murine tumour models J. Microencapsul. 10 1 1993 101 114 .

Nanoprecipitation of commercial poly vinyl benzoate in the presence of Pluronic F68 produces nanoparticles with smooth surfaces and with a mean diameter of about 200 250 nm. The nanoparticles are non toxic towards human and bacterial cell lines. A hydrophobic model drug compound coumarin 6 was efficiently encapsulated up to 1.56 by weight while the hydrophilic fluorophore 5 6 carboxyfluorescein gave low compound entrapment. Up to 5 by weight of a hydrophobic or lipophilic drug may be encapsulated within the nanoparticle. Nanoparticles exhibited slow controlled release in PBS. Degradation of the nanoparticles in the presence of esterases proceeded via side chain hydrolysis to release benzoic acid as an indicator of bioerosion. Pluronic F68 was found to retard hydrolytic degradation with about 5 of benzoic acid release occurring within the first 32 days while nanoparticles without surfactant were degraded approximately ten times faster. Furthermore the poly vinyl benzoate nanoparticles when protected by Pluronic F68 are stable in rat serum.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall there between. Now that the invention has been described 

