---

title: Professional and employee social networks and social media systems
abstract: Professional and employee social networks and social media systems. Questions and answers are organized in different categories for easy selection to assist in the personality profile definition and subsequent behavioral model development. The Question-Answer creator, Matching Engine, and Personal and Group Relations Manager have the potential to provide career matching and career counseling services to individuals. Individuals using this infrastructure are able to determine career opportunities available to them in their Personal Matching Network and Group Matching Network. They are able to complete an assessment of their skills and provide these to employers with transparent or masked identity. This network determines the nodes that are enabled to be viewed at a certain degree of connectivity. The social media system may provide access to multiple groups or sub social networks based on match between profile data such as an email address domain name and an access control list.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09449091&OS=09449091&RS=09449091
owner: 
number: 09449091
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130827
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 559 486 filed Jul. 26 2012 currently pending which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 982 805 filed Dec. 30 2010 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 234 346 on Jul. 31 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 644 276 filed Aug. 20 2003 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 890 581 on Feb. 15 2011.

In the prior art the user of a stationary or mobile device is forced to search the Internet in a laborious time consuming and inefficient manner to find individuals or groups of individuals that meet the user s pre set or dynamically changing criteria for one or more types of social professional or other interactions. Similarly the user faces a daunting task in efficiently searching for web sites relevant web content and specific information. The simple reason for this limitation is that the prior processes and the prior art is quite simply search oriented rather than match oriented. There is a distinct difference in the processes related to searching and the processes related to matching. The search process of the prior art is essentially user agnostic and delivers the same results to one or more users based on a specific query. The search process of the prior art is driven by the mere presence of key words within a web page and ranking based on how often the web page has been indexed by other web sites and accessed. The search process does not apply a personality profile paradigm to the user or the data. Additionally the user does not wish to reveal the personal details to the Website or the Search Site nor are these web sites and search sites empowered by various current and anticipated laws which are designed to protect the privacy of the user and limit the potential for identity theft. Another limitation of the search process is that it is unidirectional and not bi directional with the search engine having at best limited information about the user. The present disclosure enables the application of personality profiles while protecting the privacy of the user by enabling the user to be in complete control.

The present disclosure discloses and teaches a novel Matching Network system and associated search and match processes that enhance user control enabling the user to maintain one or more private and public personality profiles. The personality profiles can be held as personality states such personality states being static dynamic or fixed for a finite period of time. These personality profiles states define the user s criteria for one or more types of social professional or commerce transactions. The match process is bi directional at a minimum or omni directional at the outside. The matching of the personality profiles of two or more parties to the transaction is executed utilizing the user defined rules and a Rules Processor that resides within the Match Engine. The ability to maintain multiple personality profiles states is equally applicable to individuals web sites web pages products and or services enabling micro and macro matching based on one or more rules. This novel feature enables the individuals and web sites to have behavioral patterns and is termed in this disclosure as the Behavioral Web or the Behavioral Internet.

In addition the prior art does not allow a user to maintain anonymity at one or more stages of various transactions. There is a need to maintain anonymity and disclose true identity and or intent at the appropriate time based on negotiation and the progress of various transactions. A user also desires to maintain a plurality of public and private personality states based on the type of social professional or commercial transactions. In the system level scheme described herein the individual users the individual web sites the individual web pages or subsets of a web page are enabled to have multiple private and or public personality states that cause the web to behave in a more responsive manner that better matches the user s needs. A network system for mobile matching is disclosed that enables efficient matching of one or more of the user s requests enabling the user to maintain multiple public and private personality states enabling the user to maintain anonymity as desired for the entire transaction or part of a transaction for a specified duration or till a specified condition is fulfilled. The system enables the user a means to negotiate a relationship and or a transaction using an Intelligent Keyboard and or a like function Mobile Device a local and or network server and or an Escrow Server located in an inside or outside wired or wireless communication line path.

It is an aspect of the present disclosure to provide a novel scheme by which the limitations of the current World Wide Web the Internet and Search Engines are overcome to enable personalized Web and Internet experience matching the individual s personality profiles. The prior art Search Engine technology simply catalogs and ranks the web sites and or web content based on rule and algorithms that are not specific to the individual user. In the prior art when a user A desires to search for a specific web site or web content and another user B similarly performs a search the results delivered by the search engine to all the users are identical even though the personality location and intended applications of user A and user B are quite different.

It is an aspect of the present disclosure to enable a single user to maintain a plurality of personality profiles or personality states to enable the user to efficiently traverse the Internet and or the Intranet to obtain the desired information that matches the user s needs. The prior art has limited capability to gather and maintain the user information such as the name address and credit card information to facilitate certain transactions with ease. However the prior art method does not provide an insight into the personality profiles states and behavior of the individual user or the needs of the user at any given time. The prior art method does not provide a match to the user s needs without the user having to laboriously shift and select information from a long list of relevant and irrelevant data that is simply presented to him as a result of a search process.

It is an aspect of the present disclosure to enable the information provider or service provider that maintains a website web page or subset of a web page to maintain a plurality of personality profiles or personality states for each of the web sites web pages and sub sets of a web page. In the prior art any web site web page or subset of a web page has the same content when viewed by more than one individual and or the same functionality for all of the users. In the prior art the web site content nor the functionality is specifically matched to the individual user.

It is an aspect of the current disclosure to enable a web site having itself a plurality of personality profiles and states to recognize and respond appropriately to each individual user that also has a plurality of personality profiles in order to match the user s request for information or services. In the prior art there is no ability for a web site or an individual user to maintain a plurality of personalities and for efficient recognition and matching.

It is an aspect of the current disclosure to enable mathematical and behavioral modeling of one or more users as individuals in groups or in the aggregate in order to establish one or more personality states for the web site web page and or sub set of a web page. In the prior art web sites do not have multiple personalities nor do they model themselves or model their users with a user personality profile.

It is an aspect of the current disclosure to enable the implementation and the structuring of a web site web page or sub set of a web page as a finite state machine to form the Behavioral Web. The novel method of structuring a web site as a finite state machine causes the web site to behave in a manner that is specific to each user and respond appropriately to the stimuli generated by each individual user. This novel method enables personalized content to be viewed and tailors the functionality of the web site to a specific user. In the prior art web sites do not maintain the state for the web pages on the web site depending on the actions on a specific page. The novel finite state machine design as disclosed herein maintains the state for all of the web pages per individual user since stimuli on one page may cause a state change on some other page. This novel implementation is based upon personality profiles user modeling user defined criteria state ful user profiles and computer heuristics.

It is an aspect of the present disclosure to enable a web site having a plurality of personalities to recognize and respond to the specific personality of a user and transform the web site and the functionality in a manner that is specific for that user. This novel approach enables a single web site to be responsive to multiple users and their personality profiles to enable the provider to efficiently deliver matched content and matched services to a plurality of the user s on the Internet and or the Intranet. The current disclosure enables the web site to behave in a personalized manner for each individual user.

It is an aspect of the present disclosure to define a match engine which enables behavioral modeling and matching of Users and Providers on the Internet. The Match Engine is of utility to the World Wide Web application as well as other applications where user modeling and user behavior are factors. The user is in this instance defined as either a human or a computer since the modeling is also applicable for computer to computer interactions and negotiation. The Match Engine also enables user s to intelligently sift through the vast amount of behavioral content to derive information that matches the user s needs. This operation of intelligently sifting through behavioral content and zeroing in on relevant information is defined as matching. Matching is a super set of searching and enables customized access to information.

It is an aspect of the current disclosure to utilize the Match Engine for matching by enabling the input and output data sets to be characterized and modeled according to personality profiles user defined criteria state ful profiles of the user and computer based heuristics. The matching process becomes a search process if the user is not modeled and or the data set itself does not behave. Behavior modeling of one or more parties to the transaction and delivering the relevant data from the entire data set to one or more parties defines a matching process.

It is an aspect of the current disclosure to utilize the Match Engine for matching enabling the user to have a richer web experience as well as a more granular targeted access to information. In the prior art of searching the data set is not personified and modeled. In contrast in matching behavioral models of entire web sites or inanimate objects are developed. One or more attributes of the object are defined as personalities allowing these inanimate objects to be modeled and matched with real live human beings or computers depending on the application.

It is an aspect of the present disclosure to make the web experience of the user simpler and richer replacing and or augmenting the search process by a match process utilizing the Match Engine. The World Wide Web is an interconnected graph in which the nodes are web pages and links serve as the edges between these nodes. In the current state of the art searching engines scour the web and employ their own algorithm to catalog the web. Some search engines suggest that the more often a web page is linked by other web pages the greater its relevance. Users enter their query criteria into search engines and using the criteria and its own algorithms the search engine produces a series of web pages that it determines are relevant to the user. Searching is by definition is a user intensive process. The user must sift through the results displayed by the search engine. Filters may be applied to the search criteria by specifying Boolean logic to tie the criteria together. The web pages that are searched are not customized and do not behave in a personalized manner. Therefore the search engine indexes relatively static data while the web is inherently capable of providing a dynamic experience with the emerging technologies which enable connectivity all the time.

It is an aspect of the current disclosure to enable multiple user profiles in the matching operation. The prior art search engine technology does not use personality models to understand the user. Prior art searching techniques do not incorporate a user s past queries to predict future needs. However even if it did that it still does not develop a user personality profile or a more global user model. Since no user profile exists in traditional searching the search engine does not perform keyword look ups based upon a user profile. Further multiple profiles are not used in the searching operation.

It is an aspect of the current disclosure to enable efficient traversing of the behavioral web with the Matching Network system infrastructure wherein a user assumes a persona via one or more personality profiles. The personality profiles of the user can be stored at the client on the user s browser. Alternatively the persona can be assumed at the specific web site using a selected personality profile. The user modeling information is also aggregated from the client server and or third parties. Upon assuming this persona that is transmitted to web sites web sites may customize their content according to the persona. Web sites are therefore capable of leveraging the behavioral web to present a different face to the various users that visit their site. Additionally the web sites behave differently depending on the actions of the user and changes to his persona. The Match Engine s matching program enables users to derive relevant information from this behavioral web.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure the Matchbot assumes the user specified persona to scour the web looking for relevant matching web sites and content. The Matchbot is defined as a robot that is configured for information acquirement to enable searching and matching based on personality profiles of the user. The Matchbot working in conjunction with the Match Engine enable much more customized and relevant information to be acquired by the user. The User has the option of assuming a variety of personas.

In another aspect of the present disclosure Web sites vendors and service providers are enabled to continuously or at set intervals launch Matchbots that embody specific personalities and objectives of the provider to reach and match with the Matchbots of the users.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure Matchbots that assume the user specified personality profile scour the web continuously or for a specified time. Additionally the Matchbots have the capability to be time released and or have a limit condition in which the matching operation should take place. The Matchbots are programmable for one or more personalities and one or more specific tasks.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine is programmable by the user to define the criteria that constitutes a match. That is the user can set one or more criteria for matching and assign weights to each criterion. The Matchbot scours the web based on these defined criteria and determine the relevancy of the information at the Matchbot level and or in conjunction with the Match Engine to determine if a match has occurred.

In another aspect of the present disclosure through the use of targeted Matchbots marketing and electronic commerce by the vendor is enabled without the vendor having to resort to spamming of all users unsolicited e mail pop advertisements and other intrusive behavior. The Matchbot released by the Vendor is recognized by the user s web site or the user s Matchbot based on the rules that the user has established for one or more of his personalities. Additionally the Matchbot concept for the Internet ensures that nothing that is unsolicited is delivered to a user s mobile device or a stationary device since all information that is delivered is via the user s own Matchbot said user Matchbot enabled to behave according to the user defined rules. The Matchbot concept and system level scheme ensures that nothing is pushed on to the user it based on a Match and Pull concept rather than the prior art standard of unmatched and unwanted Push concept.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine enables the discovery of user profiles wireless devices Intelligent Appliances to enable appropriate service offering by the wireless service provider.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine enables the discovery and use of wired or wireless applications that are best suited and matched to the user s personality profile.

In another embodiment the Match Engine enables adaptable wireless networking applications for mobile devices and intelligent appliances based on personality profiles.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine enables the discovery and use of wired or wireless applications that are best suited and matched to the user on one or more communication channels.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine enables the matching of one or more individuals for the purposes of social and professional interaction.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine enables the individual user to maintain a plurality of public and private personalities. The Match Engine enables the appropriate matching of the user based on one or more personalities depending on the privacy needs and other criteria.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine enables the individual user to maintain a plurality of public and private personalities and negotiate social professional or commercial relationships and execute transactions based on a selected personality profile and the desired level of privacy and security.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure multiple Match Engines with varying degrees of capabilities and personalization are enabled to exist at the communication device level the local server level the network sever level and on the Internet. This system configuration provides matching capabilities across the entire network topology.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine and Search Engine are enabled to co exist at the mobile device level at the local server level and or on the network to perform matching and searching in a stand alone manner and or in conjunction with each other.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the match process is applied to the numerous results of a search provided by a Search Engine in order to refine and derive a match that meets the user profile.

It is an aspect of the present disclosure to mask the email identity of the user by utilizing an Escrow Server for send and receive e mail functionality and other transactions. The Escrow Server is enabled to be part of the Match Engine and or be external to the Match Engine on a local loop or network loop.

An aspect of the present disclosure is to enable matching by acquiring the user s match criteria through a text based entry and associated Boolean logic. This in addition is coupled with a series of questions and answers provided by the user initially and or subsequently to narrow the match criteria. These questions which relevant to the user are generated based upon prior history similar queries by other users contextual awareness and computer defined heuristics.

An aspect of the present disclosure is to model the user to perform efficient matching. The user creates a personality profile and or multiple personality profiles some of which are private and some are public.

An aspect of the present disclosure is to enable a model of the data set for efficient matching. Even if the data set is inanimate it is profiled with a personality test consisting of various attributes of the inanimate entity so that it demonstrates various behaviors.

An aspect of the present disclosure is to enable matching via the use of algorithms that catalog the web. These algorithms determine the relevance of a web page by the number of links that point to that web page. In addition these algorithms depend on meta data to determine relevance.

An aspect of the present disclosure is to continuously refine the models of the users based on computer defined heuristics such as Bayesian prior history and refine the relevance rankings of web pages based on user feedback. The user feedback is actively determined through feedback tests taken by the user and passively determined through assessing the type of web pages how many web pages and how often web page have been selected by the user.

By building more accurate models of users the Matching Engine leverages the fact that similar types of users desire similar types of web results.

An aspect of the present disclosure is to enable dynamic matching. Matching is not static as is the case currently with searching. A match is capable of being queried instantaneously and or polled at a time frequency defined by the user.

An aspect of the present disclosure is to enable dynamic searching. The search process via a Search Engine is capable of being queried instantaneously and or polled at a time frequency defined by the user. Currently this capability does not exist except for instantaneous searching.

An aspect of the present disclosure is to enable finite state machine logic to be used to model the behavior of individuals groups web sites products services and inanimate objects.

Other aspects features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the disclosure examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the disclosure will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the disclosure to those embodiments. On the contrary the disclosure is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

The present disclosure provides means for a User to readily assume a plurality of public and private personalities for navigating the Intranet or the Internet. The present disclosure in addition enables the Web Site to assume a plurality of personalities for serving the unique needs of different users. The present disclosure also discloses the means for describing any product or service with a plurality of personality type attributes. The present disclosure discloses novel methods for maintaining either anonymity or a public presence based on User preferences. In addition the present disclosure teaches the method for negotiating different types of transactions through the use of the Escrow Server.

The present disclosure additionally provides the means for the user to develop the User Behavioral Model based on the personality profiles of the user and prior history of the user to predict future behavior of the user. Similarly the present disclosure enables modeling of other users based on their personality profile and past interactions. The present disclosure also provides the means for the website to develop the Website Behavioral Model based on the personality profiles of the website and prior history of the website to predict future behavior of the website as it serves the requests of varied users. The present disclosure enables private and public groups with the groups being characterized by one or more private and public personalities and the Group Behavioral Model.

The present disclosure also discloses a novel method for enabling the matching of the User with various types of information services and products desired by the user through match based solutions that are user specific personality specific and transaction specific. The Match Engine based techniques disclosed in the present disclosure overcome the limitations of the Search Engine based techniques. The present disclosure discloses means for efficiently matching the User by utilizing behavioral models and algorithms at the User node the Web Site node or the full spectrum of the Internet. In addition the present disclosure enables the user to employ exclusively either the Match techniques the Search techniques and or a combination of Search and Match techniques based on the user discretion.

In the prior art the User A has no specific Internet personality and by default has a generic persona that is essentially the same as millions of other users including User B . After being connected to the Internet by wired or wireless means the user logs onto a Search Site located on the Internet. Utilizing the Interface the Browser the user performs a Query Input in Display window seeking specific information. The Search Site internally employs a search engine that operates via algorithms that are search engine specific rather than user specific to deliver Query Output which consists of a number of results R through Rn. In the prior art the behavioral modeling of users groups and websites is not possible as there is no means for characterizing these entities.

With the amount of data available on the Internet growing exponentially the user is faced with a daunting task that may be compared to the proverbial process of looking for a needle in a haystack.

Let us assume that a number of users are searching the Internet for information on needles and in this instance user A is a surgeon and user B is a cobbler. The user A and user B and other users input Needle in the query input window and perform a search using a reputed search site of the prior art and its search engine technology. The resulting query output consists of a number of results 

And so on. Of the eight results presented by the search engine most relate to sewing applications. Inputting the word needles also delivers similar results. Consequently

1. These results have no contextual relationship to the user. All users inputting an identical query get the identical answer as query output irrespective of their background and or even geographical location.

2. Another limitation is that the ranking order in which the results are presented is also identical for all users. However each user has implicitly a different interpretation of the word needle which may not be explicitly expressed by the user. A physician who treats people and a veterinarian who treats animals are looking for different types of needles and there is no distinction made by the current search engine technology.

3. The results delivered are interspersed with relevant and irrelevant information forcing the user to manually determine the relevancy of the query output. Further when the results are presented after a search in the prior art there is a significant amount of the proverbial hay still left around the information. In this illustration the user A a surgeon and user B a cobbler did not get any relevant data on the needles they seek. In addition the four results that were presented are information about four needles that were not in any way relevant to user A and user B. There was no specific and single result that was highly relevant to the user.

The prior art thus suffers from a number of limitations. The user does not have the ability to maintain a plurality of public and private personality profiles nor does the user have the ability to hold and maintain different personality states. The Web Site and the individual web pages comprising the web site do not have the ability to have different personality profiles states. The user does not have the ability to ascribe weights to various Input and Output query factors for personal relevancy. The user also does not have the ability to model one or more of the user personalities and maintain individual control. The web site behavior is the same for all users while the needs of the users are quite different. These prior art limitations significantly hinder the user from deriving increased utility of the Internet which is fast becoming the medium of first choice. The present disclosure is designed to overcome the limitations of the prior art and significantly change the paradigm for navigating the web seeking information and conducting transactions.

The present disclosure enables the user to maintain a plurality of private personality profiles PR through PRn and a plurality of public personality profiles PU through PUn. The personality profile is of great utility in maintaining different persona on the Internet as the Internet or the World Wide Web has become the medium of choice for communication between users about who very little is known. There is therefore a need for selectively revealing the user s identity for specific transactions including the very basic action of information gathering. Additionally there is a need to mask the identity or alternately use a different personality profile for other interactions. User A for illustration is a male physician and User B is a female software engineer. The Behavior Model is used to characterize and model the individual user by means of the personality profiles and the actual history of the user in various prior interactions transactions. The physician maintains a personality for interacting with professional colleagues a different personality profile that is seeking a romantic partner and yet another personality profile for navigating the Internet. The female software engineer maintains a personality profile for surfing the web seeking technical information of a professional nature a different personality profile for finding a dating partner and yet another personality for shopping purposes. The Matching Network system of the present disclosure enables generation of various personality profiles by each user and behavior modeling of the user with the control being maintained by the user. The user has the ability to use the communication device CD to generate and maintain the personality profiles and or use one or more servers on the Intranet Local Server or the Internet Network Server . In the prior art this capability does not exist.

The present disclosure enables the Website X and different web pages within the website to be characterized by one or more personality profiles and the ability to hold state for a specific user. The Website X is able to recognize that User A and User B have distinctly different personalities and deliver web pages and website functionality that is matched to the needs of each user. As an example User A when visiting the website X is presented with the website personality and User b is presented with a different website personality . The website additionally holds a different state for User A and User B delivering different functionality for each user. Prior art does not enable this feature which is of great utility and instead only provides a web experience that is identical for each and every user. In addition the present disclosure defines the Matching Network system that enables the user to leverage the full capabilities of the Intranet Local server and one or more servers located on the Internet.

The present disclosure defines the ability to utilize match based techniques that are of far greater utility than the prior art of search based techniques. The ability to characterize the Users Websites Products and Services by the personality profiles and behavior models enables matching of the User with the desired information product or service in a more efficient manner. To illustrate user B the female software engineer prefer a specific brand and shade of lipstick. The personality profile and the behavior model of the user are maintained on the communication device CD and or the Local server with the ability to recognize the preferences of the User B and update prior history data and forecast most likely future behavior of the user. The user B logs on to the Internet and types the word in the browser or speaks the word lipstick . The results displayed are now specific to the particular brand and shade of lipstick desired by user B. In the prior art the results would be extensive and not readily of relevance. The User B desiring to purchase the lipstick is matched with the Website web pages of the vendor that offers the particular brand and shade of lipstick.

Matching requires the characterization of the User and the Provider and is best achieved when the data set at both ends is well characterized and modeled. The prior art of searching does not rely on characterization of the User or the Provider and consequently the user must apply personal analysis without the aid of computers and thus derives limited utility. As the Web use becomes more pervasive the utility is enhanced by match based processes of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure in addition to being applicable for matching is also applicable to search based processes. Searching is significantly improved when coupled with the personality profiles of the user and the behavior model of the user. The personality profiles and behavior models are applicable for search based techniques even if the other users and websites are not characterized. The personality profiles and behavior models of user B may be maintained at the communication device level or at the local server level under the full control of the user. This scheme enables the user to launch a search that is very specific and analyze the search results utilizing the processing power of the communication device CD and or the processing power of the local server and network server . In this scenario the search results finally delivered to the user are more relevant and more specific. The prior art of user agnostic search based techniques that are centralized at the Search Site do not provide the means for determining personal relevancy in a private and secure manner.

The present disclosure enables the use of a combination of search and match based techniques for delivering great utility to the user using the capabilities of the communication device by itself and or the Intranet Internet servers. The search based and match based techniques are used in combination and or iteratively and in the sequence desired by the user to deliver the utility desired by the user. The search process is under the control of the user and deployed by the user at one or more locations on the Intranet or the Internet using search methods and search algorithms that are personalized. In the prior art the search services are provided in one centralized location at the Search Site provider said provider utilizing search techniques that are not user specific.

1. The user wishes to maintain a high degree of personal control in how and where the multiple private and public personality profiles are maintained. For illustration the private personality profiles PR is maintained on the communication device . The private personality profiles PR and PR are maintained on a local server and the profile PR is maintained at the escrow server .

2. The user maintains the public personality profiles PU PU and PU on the communication device level the local server level and the network server level . The public profile PU is maintained at the favorite shopping web site level.

3. The personality profile is generally described in software using Extensible Markup Language XML language or other languages for easy and efficient interaction with one or more databases and lookup tables.

4. The user selects the private personality profile PR to communicate with the family or spouse. The communication is of a personal nature and the user does not wish to have this private profile resident on the local network or the Internet. The communication device is further enabled with software and hardware security features.

5. The user selects the private personality profile PR to conduct shopping transactions of a personal nature without disclosing complete information to the vendor or the web site except to enable payment. This limits the ability of the vendor to gather specific information about the user and limits the possibility of the misuse of private information and identity theft. Utilizing the communication device the user connects with the local server to maintain a private personality profile modify the profile temporarily download a personality profile and or select and use a specific personality profile for navigation of the web and or in transactions.

6. The user utilizing the communication device selects the personality profile PR resident on a local server to communicate with other executives and business associates.

7. The user wishes to participate in an auction and bid on a product property or service without disclosing the true identity of the user to the auctioneer or other bidders. In this implementation the escrow server acting as a trusted server acceptable to all parties maintains the private personality profile PR and enables the partial or full range of the transaction with web site without disclosing the true identity of the user before during and or after the auction. In another implementation the user navigates the Internet looking for information products and services and generally conducts on line research without disclosing the true identity using search site and escrow server communication device and wired or wireless communication means .

8. The user having one or more public personalities communicates via the regular public Internet access and or a combination of the methods illustrated in item 1 through 7 of this example 3.1 wherein the local server network server and or the escrow server is utilized.

The user has the ability to define how the aggregation compilation of the full personality profile takes place the purpose of the aggregated personality profile the time duration of its existence and other features. Each personality profile component is encrypted as is the aggregated full personality profile for additional security and avoidance of profiling snooping by third parties identity theft and or fraudulent use. Additionally the user is enabled to select one or more complex algorithms for the aggregation or compilation of the full personality profile from the various components that the profile comprises of. The communication across the matching network is by wired or wireless means . In this instance the aggregation of the personality profile components is shown at the user end on the communication device.

The Question Log consists of the Question Creator the Standard Question Table the Custom Question Table and the Question Data Base . The Answer Log consists of the Question and Answer Table and the Answer Data Base . The Personality Profile Generator consists of Rules Processor Public Personality Table Private Personality Table Scoring Processor Personality Profile Data Base Personality profile Lookup Tables and Behavior Model .

The user selects one or more questions from the Standard Question Table and provides answers to these questions which are written to the Answer Log. The user is also enabled to create custom questions via Custom Question Table that are user specific and similarly store the answers in the Answer Log . The questions and answers are organized in different categories for easy selection to assist in the personality profile definition and subsequent behavioral model development. The user now has a Question Data Base and a corresponding Answer Data Base that is then used in generating the user s specific public or private personality profiles via the Personality Profile Generator .

The Personality Profile Generator comprises of a table for a specific private personality profile and for a specific public personality profile wherein the questions answers and the weights ascribed by the user to these question answer pairs is maintained. The Scoring Processor enables the means for calculating the composite weighting of various questions and answers. The resulting private and public personality profiles are maintained in database and respectively. The user is able to set up different rules for different personality profiles and apply these rules via the Rules Processor . Additionally the Behavior Model enables the user s prior history and decision processes to be modeled for future predictive behavior and serves as a tool that assists the user.

In the prior art the users do not have the ability to generate their own multiple private and public personality profiles and also behaviorally model their own personality. In the prior art the user does not have the means for deploying the personality profiles at the communication device level or the server level and or the means for personally managing the personality profiles across a network. The present disclosure of the Matching Network system enables secure self development and self deployment of multiple personality profiles conforming to the rules defined by the user.

To generate a private personality profile the user selects questions of relevance such as Q Q Q and Q from one or more categories and ascribes weights to the question and answer pair which is stored in the Private Personality Table . The questions selected may be from the Standard Question Table are from the Custom Question Table . The Question Creator enables the custom questions to be created by the user. The Scoring Processor computes the score based on the weighting for each question answer pair and the total questions used. The resulting personality is checked for conformance to the user defined rules via the Rules Processor . The user approved personality profiles are stored in the personality profile data base and is also input in abbreviated form into the look up table for speedy reference and efficient execution. Similarly the user is enabled to generate public personality profiles. Users are enabled to have multiple private and public personalities which are of great utility in matching people or matching providers with individuals on the web. The personality profiles are applicable to the process of searching also.

This example illustrates in detail the novel process of developing and maintaining private and public personality profiles by creating questions that are relevant in defining the user. The User is a college student in real life and wishes to maintain a persona for social interactions such as finding a life partner and another for professional interactions such as finding a job. In this example the questions are selected by the user from the standard data base or created by the user utilizing the Question Creator 

This question is not part of the standard question data base. The user utilizing the question creator is able to input questions of relevance to the user.

The user may create any number of questions in one or more categories. The Question Creator and the Answer Log are designed to accept different formats of questions and answers such as True False Multiple Choice and Text and data based responses. The novel feature of creating questions or using standard questions associating answers to the specific questions assigning weights to the question answer pairs and generally self defining the user personality profiles is of great utility.

The unique method for creating questions and keeping track of the weighted answers provides the basis for the dynamic determination of the personality profiles of the users. This feature forms the basis for the creation of Personal Matching Networks and Group Matching Networks illustrated in detail elsewhere in of the present disclosure.

The Question Creator Answer Table and Matching Engine have the potential to enable electronic learning and mobile learning. The test creator has the ability to facilitate real time assessments of skills. The Query Table for user A and for User B and the Scoring processors and enable interactive or group mobile learning.

The teachings described herein coupled with the features described in are used in the Personal Matching Network and Group Matching Network context to share information dialogue and provide utility in intra network and inter network applications.

This novel feature of the present disclosure provides the tools and establishes the means for mutual discovery authentication and approval by mobile device and stationary device users and enables real time communication keeping the identity masked partially revealed or fully revealed at the sole discretion of the users.

A personal Match Engine is deployed by each user to determine the potential feasibility of a relationship. The users are enabled to discover each other communicate with each other and negotiate with each other with the ability to maintain total and complete anonymity and or reveal the desired personality details at different stages of the communication negotiation process. This novel embodiment of the present disclosure is of great utility to research relationships negotiate relationships and establish relationships with one or more known unknown individuals utilizing the Internet with universal applicability to social professional and commercial relationships. The present disclosure also limits the potential for identity theft.

Referring now to in detail the specific embodiments of the present disclosure are explained and illustrated. The User A denoted by maintains at the communication device level Private personality profiles Public personality profiles communication device level Data Base Lookup Tables Rules Processor Query Generator Answer Table Scoring Processor Storage Behavior Model and Match Engine . The User A is also enabled to maintain in tandem these entities and functions at the Local Server the Network Server and or the Escrow Server level if desired.

In a similar manner User B denoted by maintains at the communication device level Private personality profiles Public personality profiles a device level Data Base Lookup Tables Rules Processor Query Generator Answer Table Scoring Processor Storage Match Engine and Behavior Model . The user B is also enabled to maintain these functions at the Local Server the Network Server and or the Escrow server level if desired. The wired or wireless communication path between User A and User B is indicated as the wired or wireless communication path between the User A and the Servers is indicated by and the wired or wireless communication path between the User B and the Servers is indicated by . The Website the Network Server the Search Site the Match Server and the Escrow Server are shown on the Internet. The Local Server is in the inside line path on the Intranet. The Intranet Internet is indicated by .

The illustration refers to the means for wired or wireless communication and interaction between multiple individual users and groups of users by the use of the Communication Device Escrow Server Matching Server Network Server and or a Local Server while maintaining personal control over when if and how the true identity is revealed after negotiation. In forming different types of groups it is desirable to qualify the individuals for entrance into the specific group. As a specific illustrative example college students who are currently enrolled or who are alumni of the educational institution have e mail addresses that have a common post fix of .edu .

1. A Match Site with a dot com web address and a Matching Server is designed for fostering social interaction between college students as one of its many service offerings.

2. College students visit the Match Site on the Internet and register with their real e mail address ending with a post fix of .edu . An example of the email address is johndoe mit.edu 

3. The email address is very specific in that it defines the individual as a current registered student at a particular educational institution and generally enables the user to be authenticated as belonging to the college group.

4. Multiple users from same or different educational institutions register with the Match Site answering basic registration questions. The Match Site assigns a user ID and a corresponding email address. USERID thematchsite.com 

5. The Matching Server maintains a database and corresponding lookup table for each registered user. The lookup table maps the real ID and the real email address of the user into a table with the corresponding user ID and the new masked email address that is assigned by the Match Server. This process enables the masking of the real email ID of the user for legitimate purposes. Example 

6. Each individual who registers may complete standard personality questionnaire that consists of suggested questions and additional questions that may be selected by the user from a Question Data Base resident on the Match Server. The user is also enabled to use questions generated independently by the user which are input into the user s database. This enables the registrant to develop customize and establish one or more private and public personality profiles for the self using personally specific questions. Additionally the user is enabled to define the set of rules for defining a potential match said rules being maintained in a database on the Match Server.

7. Users are enabled to request a match from the Match Site for one or more purposes such as for dating for homework collaboration for sports for travel and other purposes. The Matching Server consists of a Match Engine. The Match Engine using the personality profiles of all the users and or a subset and the rules defined by the user determines a match after scanning the relevant databases and applying efficient matching algorithms.

8. Users A John Doe from MIT having User ID1 desires to be matched with a Harvard freshman of the opposite gender for help with homework in the freshman English class. User A submits a request by visiting the Match Site or by other means such as e mail.

9. The Match Engine determines that User B Jane Smith from Harvard having user ID2 is the perfect match and has further indicated a willingness to tutor in her personality profile.

10. The Match Engine provides either one way notification by e mail or other means such as visiting a private web page for notifying User B Jane Smith first wherein User B has the chance to review the masked profile of User A. User B then has the ability to communicate directly using the pseudo email address ID2 thematchsite.com by sending email to ID1 the matchsite.com. At this point the direct interaction and negotiation is enabled between the two parties A and B who may choose to reveal their identity at an appropriate stage of interaction. Alternately the Match Engine notifies both parties without revealing the true identity and either party is free to contact the other first or ignore the requested match.

11. Additionally the User A and User B are enabled to directly query each other by using the Query Generator for A and for B to determine information of relevancy to each other in conjunction with the Match Site and the Match Server and or the Escrow Server.

The foregoing example illustrates the novel feature of match driven people to people interaction based on multiple private and public personality profiles having the ability to negotiate the terms of the interaction and the freedom to reveal the identity at the desired time. The current search engine based processes lack in efficiency and privacy because the user has to laboriously seek and sift through information that most often is not relevant. Additionally the user is forced to reveal the identity at a very early stage without having a chance to determine the suitability of the other party and or having a chance to negotiate a relationship.

User A is a male college student maintaining a specific private personality profile that is designed for dating purposes. This private personality profile was generated by User A through the process of answering a series of questions and providing answers to the questions said data being stored in the appropriate database and look up tables on the communication device itself or on a local network or escrow server. User A has in addition defined his rules for defining what elements constitute a match for social interaction in the dating scenario. In a similar manner User B who happens to be a female college student has established a specific private personality profile and the specific rules that she wishes to apply to determine what constitutes a match.

User A using communication device and User B using similar or different type of communication device communicate with the Match Site server . User A and User B maintain their private personality profiles at the Match Site that facilitate matching of individuals based on specific match based modeling and the user defined rules. The Match Site determines that based on the private personality profiles provided by both parties there is a match between User A and User B conforming to the rules defined by both parties such as dating. However the identity of User A is not known to User B and vice versa. User A and User B are notified of that a match is indicated based on the rules defined by both parties. The notification is done using the pseudonym email ID of each user without disclosing the identity of either party to the other. At this point the user A and user B are free to contact each other directly using the pseudonym ID and or fully reveal their true identities. However each party would like to know more about the other for safety security and the need to avoid embarrassment and continue using the pseudonym ID.

The communication between the parties A and B is conducted through the Match Site using web based methods pseudonyms or e mail ID that is specially created for this specific purpose. Each party selects specific questions from the available Question data base and or generates their own questions to better determine the personality of the other party using Query Generator for A and for B. The questions posed by A are answered by B either directly and or through the use of the Match Site and written into the Answer Table . And similarly the questions posed by B are answered by A and written into Answer Table . The queries and the answers are stored in the appropriate data bases and and Lookup Tables and .

The User A and the User B may assign individual weights to the different questions and answers in addition to defining specific or general rules for matching in the Rules Processor for A and Rules Processor for B . The scoring of the questions and answers with the appropriate weighting is performed by the Scoring Processor for A and Scoring Processor for B . The Match Engine for A determines if there is a match acceptable to A and the Match Engine for B determines if there is a match acceptable to B. Alternately the determination of the match is performed at the Match Site and or an Escrow Server . At any stage the true identity of A or B is not revealed without both parties consenting.

Additionally as the interaction continues between the parties A and B there is a need to exchange critical and vital information. This is important even if the identity is known or is still not revealed. The Escrow Server notifies and enables both parties to determine that the other party has provided the information requested by the other in a timely manner before proceeding to the next level of interaction. The information may be provided to the Escrow Server by both parties.

A specific illustration of this feature is that if A and B wish to exchange photos while not knowing the true identity and the real contact information of each other then the Escrow server enables that and notifies both parties of compliance or non compliance. The female college student B has ascertained without disclosing her true identity that the personality of the male college student A is acceptable to her through this interactive query process. However after seeing the photo of A she declines to proceed further. This is possible with the present disclosure that lets people discover each other in a less intrusive and protected manner. While the example illustrated is for social interactions between two parties it is equally applicable for other social commerce and professional interactions between multiple individuals and groups and is not to be construed as limited to the example cited herein.

In this example the Matching Network system location dependent and dynamic real time matching. Two college students User A and User B are traveling alone in Europe for the summer with communication devices that have GPS location determining features. It is late in the evening. The students would like to find a room for that day and share the room. Each user maintains a personality profile for this type of purpose. A query for room sharing is generated by User A and sent to the Match Site located on the Internet. The Match site determines that the User B is in the vicinity and has a profile that is compatible and indicates a potential match. User B is queried by the Match Site and provided information about A and indicates an interest. User A and User B are enabled to directly communicate.

The prior art does not enable the full range of instantaneous dynamic delayed or time frequency based matching or searching. The data on the Internet or the Intranet is dynamic and the databases are being dynamically updated with new information. This static query at a given point in time does not guarantee a match to the query or in the cases of search present the results that are dynamically relevant. Additionally the current search engines index web pages at some point in time and do not dynamically and instantaneously update the indexed web pages. Consequently the information provided by the search engines is not timely and time correct.

The present disclosure enables the request for a match or a search to be executed automatically in the manner and with the frequency desired by the user using the same or different personality profiles of the user. College student A is looking for a room mate at the beginning of the month and the Match site indicates no match at that time. However the college student has requested that the database of the site or other sites be automatically polled every day for this match. The present disclosure enables that polling and notification feature. Similarly the search for information is not static. The polling and notification feature is equally applicable to search based techniques as disclosed in the present disclosure.

In the prior art there are significant limitations with the e mail services which are plagued by significant and growing Spam problems. The e mail is generally received by the E mail Server located at the service provider where the User maintains personal email accounts. The filters provided by the service provider are generally driven at the highest block level by the designated contact list of the User with other levels being less filter proof. The filter programs also block valid e mails with delayed notification or no notification of important emails. There is a legitimate need for organizations to send bulk email. However in the prior art the filters classify these bulk emails as spam. Another limitation is that once an email address is given to a Vendor or others it quickly becomes a publicly traded commodity spawning more spam. The embodiments of the present disclosure overcome these limitations and problems.

The present disclosure enables the utilization of the Escrow Server for email filtering wherein the user s apply their own filtering algorithms using one or more personality profiles to all incoming email rather than being limited to the generic filtering algorithms that the service provider enables. The email is received first by the Escrow Server and or may be forwarded to the Escrow Server from the current provider wherein the Escrow Server applies various user defined personality profiles to authenticate and match the email sender content with the user thus eliminating significant spam. The user is additionally enabled to compare a user personality profile with the contents and images of the email filtering content or the entire email based on text scan word phrase relevancy and objectionable image types.

The present disclosure enables the User A as an example to establish one or more pseudonym email addresses at the Escrow Server for each of the user s personality profiles thus ensuring that the true or real email address is not revealed to the public for elimination of spam. The pseudonym email addresses are mapped to the real email address of the User and the email notification to the real email address of the User A is performed after relevant personality based screening and sorting by the Match Site using the Escrow Server as an email server.

The filtering programs and algorithms applied to each personality profile are determined by the User A. The User A is also enabled to send and receive text email said text words being scanned for appropriateness to a personality profile using the appropriate personality profile for the User A and the corresponding masked email address.

The present disclosure enables the embodiment of the disclosure to be applied to Voice and Audio Mail screening. The voice patterns of known individuals are characterized using voice recognition patterns having these voice patterns maintained in a database on a local or network server associating said voice audio patterns by Users ID and personality profiles and causing the voice audio mails to be characterized and segregated into one or more categories for relevancy. As an example the voice mails are enabled to be screened for objectionable language and sales calls.

The present disclosure enables the embodiment of the disclosure to be applied to Image Mail screening. The Images including still video and graphics are characterized using image recognition patterns having these image patterns maintained in a database on a local or network server associating said image patterns by Users ID and personality profiles and causing the image mails to be characterized and segregated into one or more categories for relevancy. The present disclosure enables the screening of the combination of text data voice audio and image mails in the email format or other communication formats using the communication itself and or in conjunction with the local server or the network servers.

The prior art does not enable matching of individuals intra group matching and inter group matching of individuals and matching between groups. The prior art does not index groups or the individuals that belong to a specific group. In an increasingly digitally connected world the importance of personal networks and group networks is extremely critical for efficient communications and transactions. There is a need to find the public groups on the Internet and the moderator of the specific group if one exists. The present disclosure enables the specific group to be indexed by type category by its personality profile and by the moderator for easy searching and matching and traversal by the individual user across the group and personal networks.

The present disclosure overcomes this limitation and defines a comprehensive system for forming a Group developing and establishing one or more personalities for the Group the means for admitting an individual to the Group and or terminating the individual from the Group based on determining if a match exists between the personality profile of the individual seeking admission to the group and the personality profile of the Group. The present disclosure also defines the means for interaction between one or more Groups based on the Group personalities.

Referring to the Internet Intranet is the medium for wired or wireless communication by one or more individuals or groups using enabling communication devices CD. Individual A individual B and individual C have no group affiliation but have one or more private and public personalities. Private Group Private Group and Private Group exist on the Internet or the Intranet said groups comprising of multiple individual members each member being defined by their own private and personality profiles. Additionally each group is characterized by one or more Group Personality Profiles GPP said group personality profiles being member defined. The Group Personality Profile GPP is maintained on a hosting Website Server WS Local Server LS Network Server NS or a Match Site Match Server . Additionally Search Site and Escrow Server ES are shown for interaction as needed. Similarly one or more Public Groups Public Group Public Group and Pubic Group are enabled with the individual members of said public group having one or more public and private personalities.

Public and Private groups may have a moderator or no moderator. The individual and the members of the group are enabled to utilize their pseudonym ID at the Match Site to communicate without revealing their true identity and or may use their real identity to communicate within the group or with individuals external to the group. The Match Site and its associated Match Engine enable the matching process.

The embodiments and utility of the Matching Network system and its applicability for groups is illustrated with examples 

In this instance Public Group is a Church group in Palo Alto Calif. The Public Group actively seeks new members who are

The above limited information is one part of the Public Group personality profile. Individual A is an upstanding citizen of Cambridge Mass. who is planning on relocating to Palo Alto. The Individual is a

The above limited information is one part of the Individual A s Public personality profile. The individual using the current Search Engine technology searches for a Church groups in Palo Alto and is presented with a number of results that may have no results and or require further sifting of the results presented.

However the Church Group and the individual have registered with the Match Site and or alternately indexed by the Match Site if registered on other sites. The query of Individual A to Match Site enables the discovery of Public Group . In this instance a conditional match is indicated based on the conflict on condition of Group that requires tithing. The Group Moderator is the focal point for communication and negotiation with individual A for admission to the group. However Individual A wishes to mask the identity at this point. In the event the group has no moderator then the Match Site facilitates the polling of the entire group. The groups in the present disclosure may be polled if the polling option is selected. The Escrow Server is utilized in the instance critical personality profile information about the Individual A needs to be authenticated independently without disclosure to the Group Moderator or some or all of the members of the group. Alternately the Group Moderator is enabled to decline the admission of Individual A to the group without disclosing the Group Moderator s identity as the Individual A and the Group moderator are likely to interact in the future in the community on other matters.

Individual B in this instance has one or more public and private personalities and wishes to create one or more private and public groups with some groups having a moderator and other groups having no moderator. In the present disclosure multiple individuals including B are enabled to create one or more private and public groups using the Match Site the Match Engine and the Matching Network system of this present disclosure.

Individual B creates a private group for playing the game of tennis with the condition that only individuals who have played at the varsity level will be admitted. Individual B is a varsity level champion and has friends who are novices but wish to play tennis with individual B. This is not satisfying to B but B needs to be discreet about turning down their offers to play.

1. Using the Match Site the Match Engine and the pseudonym ID of B at the Match Site individual B creates a Private Group labeled Varsity Tennis Group. Individual B selects a personality profile for B. Since B is the creator of the group the group personality profile for the Varsity Tennis Group is defined by individual B. The group is registered on the Match Site. The group is formed with a moderator. In this case B is the group moderator.

2. Individual B now is enabled to directly or anonymously invite known varsity level tennis players to join this group with the option of revealing the identity of B or alternately keeping the identity masked.

3. Individual C is a great tennis player and is invited and accepts the invitation not knowing the identity of B. Individual B is the Moderator all invitations must go through B. If there is no moderator individual C is now enabled to invite other varsity level players using the masked identity. The new invitees must meet the group personality criteria and must be approved by some or all members of the group. Individual C invites individual D who is accepted if there is a match. Individual C invites individual F who is known to B but is not compatible with B even though F is a great tennis player. In this instance B declines to admit F. However B invites E but E is not preferred by C. Then B and C negotiate to accept E and F or decline both E and F.

4. The individual personality profiles and the group personality profiles are matched by the Match Engine to ensure that the group personality profile is not compromised.

The present disclosure enables the following unique processes utilizing the communication device and or the appropriate servers located on the Intranet or the Internet.

3. Enables the group creator to establish the Group personality profile or a plurality of Group personality profiles.

4. Enables the members to iteratively develop a series of questions and answers to democratically or by other rules establish the group personality profile.

5. Enables the polling of the groups by electronic means on issues relevant to the group by the Match Site or the Escrow Server .

6. Enables the matching of new members for admission to the group by defined rules without disclosing the votes of individual members by using the Escrow Server .

8. Enables the termination of members from the group by defined rules without disclosing the votes of individual members by using the Escrow Server .

9. Enables wired or wireless communication by members with each other and or the servers using various types of mobile and stationary devices.

11. Enables the groups to be indexed on the Match Site or other search sites for discovery by the users and for matching the group with vendors and other sites. Alternately enables the groups to remain anonymous.

12. Enables the individual to belong to one or more groups based on the different personality profiles of the individual.

The present disclosure enables User A a small business owner to create a purchasing group for office supplies that will benefit from large volume purchase by the members. The group is created by User A and User A is also the moderator. User A posts the existence and mission of the purchasing group on the Match site without disclosing the identity using the pseudonym ID provided by the Match Site. Alternately the User A is enabled to disclose the identity. The group profile is established by User A. The personality profiles of the applicants that wish to join the group are processed by the Match Site for compatibility keeping the applicant s identity masked from User A. The group as an entity seeks information and services from potential office supply vendors with its own group personality profile. Similarly creation of various groups for other purposes such as bartering political campaigns and other purposes is enabled with the ability to mask or reveal the identity of the members in a manner that is consistent with the law.

The Matching Network system of the present disclosure enables the novel method for the creation of the PMN by the individual user comprising of multiple individuals with who the user interacts socially professionally and or in other ways. In essence the user is enabled to create a personal network consisting of many individuals and groups. The individual user has a plurality of private and public personalities and for each personality the user is enabled to create a sub network comprising of other individuals groups that fit and match the particular personality profile of the user. The PMN for the individual is comprised of one or more individuals and one or more of these sub networks. The concept of a match includes the no match instance since the no match is easily denoted represented and grouped and has special utility for the user in certain applications.

The Personal Relationship Management PRM software utility enables the user to readily establish review evaluate and manage relationships with one or more users in a bilateral manner in sub sets in sets and as groups. The user is additionally enabled to establish the Personal Routing Protocols PRP to ensure that the user receives the quality of service for the personal network desired. The full PRM and PRP utility or a subset thereof is enabled to exist on the Communication Device CD the Local Server LS the Network Servers NS the Matching Server and other Servers located on the Intranet or the Internet.

Referring now to the Individual User A forms a Personal Matching Network comprising of individuals I I and I who are organized by the User A into subnet A said subnet conforming to a specific private or public personality profile. As an example subnet A could be the golfing buddy group. The other individuals I I and I are the family members represented by family subnet A . The Individuals I I and I are not part of any subnet for A but are part of A s Personal matching network. User A is a member of the group G which is shown as part of User A s personal matching network. The User A is part of the Group as a result of the Individual to Group Matching protocol process which enables the invitation mutual query answer processes the interaction and negotiation for admission to the group using the appropriate Local Server LS and or the Network Server the Matching Server and or the Escrow Server . User A is enabled to belong to multiple groups.

Referring once again to the Individual User B has similarly formed a separate Personal Matching Network comprising of a subnet B that in turn consists of individuals I I and I and another subnet B consisting of individuals I I and I . The individuals in each subnet are matched to User B based on one or more of the User B personality profiles. Consequently each subnet is characterized by a specific personality profile of the User B. The individual I I and I are members but are not part of a subnet.

Additionally User B belongs to the groups G which consequently is part of User B s Personal Matching Network as a result of the Individual to Group Matching protocol process and negotiation which are based on the personality profiles of the User and the Group. User B is enabled to belong to multiple groups.

User A and User B may not be directly part of each others personal matching networks even though they share the commonality with one or more groups. To establish a mutual relationship User A and User B are enabled to initiate the Individual to Individual Matching protocol process and negotiate a mutual relationship based on the specific personality profiles selected by User A and User B. User A and User B are enabled to directly communicate with each other using the wired or wireless communication path and communication device and respectively. User A is enabled to communicate via wired or wireless path and similarly User B is enabled to communicate with path with the Local Server the Network Server the Matching server and the Escrow Server to execute various functions and utilize the software and computing power resident on these servers. The User A and User B are enabled to utilize the Personal Relationship Management PRM software and the Personal Routing Protocol PRP resident on the communication device itself and or the servers to manage the full range of personal and group relations comprising their individual Personal Matching Networks.

Referring once again to the another novel embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated that relates to the unique method wherein the Group Matching Network GMN is formed comprising of one or more individuals. Group forms a GMN having members M M M M M M M M and User A. The GMN is structured with a moderator M. Another Group forms a GMN having members M M M M M M M M and User B. The GMN is structured with member M as the moderator. The GMN may further be composed of sub groups where certain individuals are organized by the moderator to form the Group Sub Net . The illustration shown is with the moderator option but the application is equally applicable to groups that have no moderator. The groups may be private or public groups with a specific group personality profile or alternatively multiple personality profiles. The GMN and GMN are enabled to have one or more private and public personality profiles with the ability to invite negotiate and admit terminate members to each group based on the personality profiles.

The interaction between the groups G and G that is GMN and GMN is implemented in association with the communication devices used by the moderator M and the moderator M the local servers and or one or more of the network servers and using the communication path and . The Group to Group relations are managed by the moderators M and M utilizing the Group Relations Management GRM software resident on servers located on the Intranet and or the Internet .

The Group Relationship Management GRM software utility and the Group Routing Protocols GRP enable the Moderator to readily establish review evaluate and manage relationships with one more members in a bilateral manner in sub sets in sets and as groups. The full GRM and GRP utility or subset thereof is enabled to exist on the Communication Device CD the Local Server LS the Network Servers NS the Matching Server and other Servers located on the Intranet or the Internet.

Referring now to the the Super Group Matching Network SGMN comprises of the Group Administrator GA and the groups G G G G G G G and G . These groups may be similar or disparate in character but may be organized as a network for one or more specific purposes and administered by the GA. The group administrator GA is enabled to establish one or more personality profiles for the super group network and invite and admit the separate groups to join the super group network SGMN . The GA enables one or more groups to form a Super Group Subnet comprising of G G and G . The GA is enabled to communicate with the group moderators such as M and M by communication path and with the local and network servers by the communication path . The Group Administrator GA is enabled to manage the Group Network and or the sub nets by utilizing the wired or wireless communication device itself and or utilizing the software databases and processing power resident on one or more servers located on the Intranet or the Internet.

The Group Relationship Management GRM software utility and the Group Routing Protocol software enables the administrator to readily establish review evaluate and manage the relationships with one or more groups in a bilateral manner in sub sets in sets and as groups. The full GRM utility or a subset thereof is enabled to exist on the Communication Device CD the Local Server LS the Network Servers NS the Matching Server MS and the Escrow server ES located on the Intranet or the Internet. Examples of the super group networks are professional networks medical networks and others comprising of one or more groups.

The GRM and GRP software provide a routing map for the members of the group to reach a target individual or target group in a manner similar to the one described for the PRM and PRP software . The GRM and PRM software enable relationship mining and or exclude members from relationship mining efforts by the other members and the group administrators based on the personality profiles and permissions set by various members. In the highly digitally connected and networked world of the future there is a need to dynamically patch in new members into the personal and group networks and or dynamically exclude members and stitch a new network topology. In addition the ability to determine the relationships and also the ability to shield the relationships is of great importance.

The present disclosure enables users to define PMN GMN and SGMN networks comprising of multiple subnets for each of the personality profiles of the user members groups respectively. Each subnet is enabled to have a personality profile associated with the subnet. The Matched subnets in each case comprise of individuals members groups having the particular personality profile desired by the configuration selected. The Unmatched subnet is by default or by selection comprises of unmatched individuals members groups. An example of a matched subnet is that of drinking buddies for a male user A. An example of an unmatched subnet in the event User A wishes to designate it as such is the friends of the user A s wife. By analogy the subnets for the Group Matching Network are enabled. The subnets are useful in forming a social network a professional network and various other special purpose networks these subnets being part of the PMN GMN and SGMN. Referring to the illustration comprises of the following subnets the subnet in the PMN of User A the subnet and subnet for the User B the group subnet for the group G and the super group subnet SGMN in the super group .

Admission to the personal matching network of A requires at least the following conforming to the various enabling methods described in the present disclosure.

Similarly the personal matching networks for User B and others are formed consisting of a plurality of members. Similar procedures are followed for the group networks and super group networks. The Invitation List of each user is of relevance in determining the levels of connectivity across personal and group networks. The invitee list is composed of those that have been invited and admitted and also those that have been invited and not admitted or declined. The ability to notify the full set of the Invitee List or only the admitted set of the invitee list is up to the discretion of the User. As an example dynamic changes in the personal and group network topology may cause others that were invited but did not join to change their mind

The network of interconnections between the individuals in the personal matching network of A defines the Network for A. The network of interconnections between the individuals in the personal matching network of B defines the Network for B. Individuals are related to user A at a certain degree of connectivity depending on how many hops are required to traverse from one user to another user through each user s invitee list of connections in this simple case the invitee list of User A and User B. As defined herein the Invitee List is by default the membership list of each network. The individuals that declined the invitation to join or the individuals that were rejected by the User are maintained in a separate database for future utility. The connections dramatically increase based on the membership in each personal network and the degree of connectivity desired across these personal networks. As an example User A is enabled to traverse through many PMN networks and GMN networks to discover another individual and or group which match the user s specific personality profile or goals. The illustrations for the PMN are by analogy applicable to GMN and SGMN networks.

User A is empowered to discover the profiles of other users such as members in the network of B only if B or the specific members in the network of B have enabled the discovery provision. Thus the ability to view the personality profiles of other members is enabled to a specific degree of connectivity and even that only with permissions and by the use of the Access Control List. Thus each hop has an access control list associated with it.

Alternatively User B has the option to define an Access Control List that permits or denies certain specific users or certain types of users the access based upon their personality profile. Thus B has the option to permit access to A for all of user B s network of invitees or part of user B s network. Thus user B has the ability to define in this access control list the rules and permissions for viewing user B s list of invitees and members. The users in the personal matching network have the ability to choose an anonymous profile and remain masked. By analogy the foregoing is equally applicable for the Super Group which is the group of groups. The Group Matching Network consists of a number of personal matching networks. Groups are also connected at a number of degrees of connectivity. The Group moderator is enabled to define access control lists that permit or deny traversal from one group to another. The foregoing and following methods of implementation and management of the networks is enabled by the PRM PRP GRM and GRP software the rules processor for each user and the match engine.

A central challenge in a Personal Matching Network or Group Matching Network is determining the connections between individuals or inanimate entities that may be a part of the Personal Matching Network or Group Matching Network. There may be millions of connections between people at only five or six degrees of connectivity.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the ability to build an entire network per node where in a node could be an individual or a group is enabled. As an example an exhaustive discovery is performed for a specific node by device discovery or methods using the Matchbot. The connectivity database is maintained and presented to the users based on permissions indicating permitted nodes and blocked nodes. This network determines the nodes that are enabled to be viewed at a certain degree of connectivity. The connectivity map is constructed with depth first or breadth first methodology. Either method requires large database transactions lookup table operations storage processing and other processing which are enabled by the web server network server. However since a large number of users desire this information contemporaneously the present disclosure teaches methods for efficient execution.

One example of the implementation is to limit the database transactions to just the invitee list of users that are proximately connected by a defined degree of connectivity in the network. In this implementation each user informs just those individuals in the User s invitee list of changes to the User s personal network. The User may do this update on some periodic or instantaneous interval. Other connected individuals send the same update message to their invitee list. Only upon a change occurring to the network does the chain reaction of message traverse and update the entire network. In this manner each node maintains an accurate snapshot of the network by listening to messages that are directly connected to it. The update messages in one scenario can be propagated only due to a log in or log out of a particular user at a website such at the Matchsite that facilitates management of personal and group matching networks. Thus a user in this type of implementation only sends a propagation update message to the Users invitees upon logging in to the system or logging out of the system. Alternate propagation criteria may be enabled to modulate the chain reaction of message updates.

In another example of the implementation is to cache the connectivity results into a Connectivity Database. This connectivity database speeds up access to the connections between nodes in a Personal Matching Network or Group Matching Network. A cache of recently accessed nodes or the individual s profiles allows for a more efficient system. Alternatively heuristics are used to prioritize certain profiles in the connectivity database which describes the connections between the nodes or individuals. These heuristics enable the user to see the profiles of others located on the network at pre determined degree of connectivity from the User based upon the User s personality profile criteria. The User is enabled to be matched with those individuals that are within the same degree of connectivity from the User and are therefore part of the connectivity database.

The Personal Matching Network or Group Matching network nodes are composed of individuals web sites or products and services. These nodes each have personality profiles. A hierarchy of connections determines their relationships. Properties such as rules or access control lists that permit or deny traversal are associated with the edges that connect these nodes. In the case of a Personal Matching Network that consists of people the edges are listed in the invitee list of each individual. Certain properties and attributes may be associated with each invitee list.

In Personal Matching Networks and Group Matching Networks entire connections between users have the ability to be grafted or pruned. It is possible for a user to be a member of multiple groups and have multiple identities. When a user joins a Group all of his interconnections to the group are grafted on to his invitee list if the user has permitted such grafting. The user has the ability to decide whether to expose the user s connections to this group and the other members of the User s invitee list. The ability of the user to preserve the integrity of the user s personal network is another crucial important and unique feature of the present disclosure.

The Personal Matching Network and or Group Matching Network code has the ability to be deployed on the communication device and or in conjunction with the local server network server or in a peer to peer manner. The peers may discover each other using Matchbots and establish connectivity.

The nodes are individuals in this case and the edges that connect these nodes are all or a subset of the individuals on the invitee list. To demonstrate the method assuming there are three users Bob Jane and Jack each wishing to build their own personal matching network.

Jack is related to Jane at one degree of connectivity. Jane is now related to Jack and Bob at one degree of connectivity. Bob is related to Jane at one degree of connectivity.

Jane then sends a propagation message update to Jack informing him of her first degree connection to Bob. This translates to a second degree connection for Jack and he stores this connectivity information in his invitee list while denoting that the connection is a second degree connection. Bob performs a similar operation.

By increasing the frequency of propagation messages the accuracy of the system increases. An alternative mechanism is to only keep track of first degree connections and perform an exhaustive recursive traversal through each individual to build a connectivity database. This connectivity database can determine the connections between individuals or inanimate objects. The connectivity database can also determine the number of connections that exist at each degree of connectivity.

A mobile user uses the connectivity database in conjunction with a Mobile Device to discover his connection if any to another user. The user determines the exact route or hops between the user and the other user. This mobile user performs the same route lookup to determine relationships between any two entities that are in a Personal Matching Network or Group Matching Network.

The Personal Matching Network and or Group Matching Network implementation and software functionality is capable of being deployed on a network server or deployed in a peer to peer manner between the users. The peers are enabled to discover each other using Matchbots and establish connectivity via communication devices.

The User is enabled to determine the first degree of connectivity the second degree of connectivity the third degree of connectivity and so on to the Nth degree of connectivity from the User to the intended target individual that the user wishes to reach. In addition the User is enabled to look at the complete topology of the User s Personal Matching Network and other Group Matching Networks to determine the nodes the individuals intermediaries the groups the subnets and the super group networks that the user must traverse through to efficiently contact and communicate with the intended target individual. The PRM software provides a dynamic routing map for traversing from the User to the target individual or target group computing the least number of hops a hop being another user or another group and or the most efficient routing path.

The least number of hops to the intended target is in some instances not the most desirable routing since the personality profiles of each hop is critical since some individuals who may serve as a hop may have an undesirable personality profile that would result in the routing path being terminated at this hop or the routing path loosing its fidelity and being compromised. Thus the routing map is also modeled using the personality profiles of the User and also that of the nodes of traversal to suggest the optimal routing using one or more of the user defined routing protocols and the quality of connectivity desired by the user. The unique method wherein the personality profiles and the behavior models of the hops nodes are determined enables the optimal routing path to be selected by the user and modeled to provide the desired quality of connectivity. As an example a particular node could easily sabotage the routing path selected either willfully or by simple delay in response. The most critical factors are not how many people you know and or how short the routing path is. The routing path is therefore modeled by the PRM and GRM software to the user defined criteria that includes the anonymity features the fidelity and quality level desired and the time domain response desired.

Another unique and novel embodiment of the present disclosure enables the Personal Matching Network and The Group Matching Network features to be coupled with the location determining capabilities of the global positioning system maintained on the Network Server or other servers to determine geographical and location specific proximity to the intended target. Additionally the mutual discovery of the communication devices used by the individual and the target is enabled to determine the most efficient means of communication across these personal and group networks. The personal and group networks are modeled using advanced networking technologies combined with human behavior models individual personality profiles and group personality profiles.

Various communication mechanisms are enabled between individuals in a Personal Matching Network Group Matching Network or across different networks. Individuals are enabled to communicate via message boards exchange of images exchange of audio exchange of text exchange of email exchange of real time audio exchange of real time video exchange of personality profiles exchange of money exchange products and or services exchange of real time text including chat and instant messaging among other communication schemes. Users have the ability to multicast or broadcast polls and questions to the entire personal or group matching network. The Group moderator regulates these communications to the groups by approving or disapproving of individual communications or defining access control lists and or rules maintained in a rules processor to regulate these discussions. The individuals connected in a Personal Matching Network or Group Matching network have the ability to authenticate each other and thereby establish credible interaction. The matching software enables individual users in a Personal Matching Network to serve as a reference in any communication or electronic commerce transaction between members of a Personal Matching Network or Group Matching Network.

Individuals in a Personal Matching Network or Group Matching Network use their credibility to barter and or sell products and services to one another. A match is enabled between the personality profiles of the individuals and the personality profiles of the products and services they desire to sell. If the seller with a known profile of a used car salesman is attempting to sell diamonds then this is a relevant factor towards determining credibility. The individuals in common to both parties have the option of serving as a reference and establishing the credibility of the buyer and seller. The individuals in common to both parties have the ability to serve as the escrow agent. Alternatively the escrow server provides escrow features in the exchange of products services and money.

The Question Answer creator and personality profile creator of the mutual ability to query and track the answers described in the Matching Engine and the Personal and Group Relations Management software are of utility for health care applications. Individuals using this infrastructure are able to obtain second opinions from doctors using mobile communication devices and the Internet. The present disclosure enables the user to interact with the doctors dialogue with these physicians and exchange personality or medical profiles for getting better care. The diagnosis by medical professionals is based on the query process wherein a number of relevant questions are asked and answers solicited.

The Question Answer creator Matching Engine and Personal and Group Relations Manager have the potential to provide career matching and career counseling services to individuals. Individuals using this infrastructure are able to determine career opportunities available to them in their Personal Matching Network and Group Matching Network. They are able to complete an assessment of their skills and provide these to employers with transparent or masked identity and negotiate a relationship. As an example the employer is enabled to provide a test through the employer s Website the Match Server and or the Escrow Server. The user takes the test with the escrow server masking the identity and when the user has met the full criteria of the employer and the user are notified of the results. At this point the negotiation between the parties is enabled.

The foregoing embodiments are novel and unique and are of great utility for the new behavioral Web or the Internet since the present disclosure discloses a means for characterizing each individual with a plurality of private and public personalities and also characterizes Groups with a plurality of personality profiles thus enabling the matching and the administration. The PRM and GRM management software enables the individual user the Group Moderator and the Group Administrator to fully analyze and manage different types of personal and group networks. Additionally the PRM PRP GRM and GRP software is enabled to recognize the specific communication device profiles and work in tandem with one or more personalities of the users communication devices servers and Intelligent Appliances.

Referring now to the User A utilizes a Communication Device A that comprises of Device ID Device Profiles Device Profile Selector means for transmitting and receiving on one or more channels of communication the MMTR or other means the Match Engine User ID User Profiles User Profile Selector Input Communication channels and Output Communication channels . Similarly User B utilizes a Communication Device B that comprises of Device ID Device Profiles Device Profile Selector means for transmitting and receiving on one or more channels of communication the MMTR or other means the Match Engine User ID User Profiles User Profile Selector Input Communication channels and Output Communication channels . The wired or wireless communication paths are indicated by CP . The Local Server LS the Website WS the Network server NS the Escrow Server ES the Matching server the Match Site and the Search Site are located on the Intranet or the Internet . While multiple servers are shown for illustrative purposes it is understood that the functionality and the scheme of the present disclosure may be executed by a single server. Such combination is not to be construed as limiting the disclosure. It is also understood that the MMTR is one means for implementing and managing multiple channels of inputs and outputs and other means such as implementing the Transmit and Receive functions by replication of multiple channels are not to be construed as limiting the novel elements of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure enables the registration of a plurality of Device IDs with the communication service provider s network server enabling a single communication device to be utilized for multiple personalities with each personality having a specific Device ID for a single user or alternately enabling the same device to be used by multiple users with each user being able to select a specific and unique Device ID from a plurality of Device IDs using addressing schemes such as IPv6. The present disclosure also enables the same communication device to be used by one or more users with each user having a specific User ID that is then associated with one or more Device IDs. Another significantly unique embodiment of the present disclosure is the means for associating the Device ID and the User ID with one or more private or public personality profiles of the user enabling the discovery of one communication device by another and one user by another. The cross correlating table of Device IDs User IDs and Personality profiles for the User A are stored in a Database or a Lookup Table and compared with the data for User B to determine a match and execute an action.

The present disclosure anticipates the need for the User to establish and select a plurality of communication device profiles for efficient and secure communication based on the requirements of the specific type of communication. For example the User A is enabled to select one or more input and output channels for private or public communication. Additionally the User A is enabled to select and associate different types of communication protocols for each communication device and each input and output channel. The User A is enabled to select the wireless frequency band and the appropriate power level for each input and output channel. Alternately the device profile selections may be executed automatically based on dynamic conditions. The device profiles are enabled to be programmed for geographic location that may require different communication protocols for the region. Similarly User B is enabled to establish and select same or different communication device profiles. The device profiles and input output channel selections are also driven by technical considerations such as the need to switch the frequency band due to a change in reception or change in service provider. The signal to noise ratio is adjusted for achieving better communication between devices by adjusting the power level on one or more channels and channel hopping.

The Transmit Receive and other radio frequency related functions of the communication device are implemented using hardware. However the present disclosure in addition utilizes the software radio technology with the APIs and the software radio functionality being resident on the communication device itself such as in the Multi channel Multiplexing Transmitter and Receiver the MMTR or other means and or on the Intranet or the Internet Servers. The present disclosure leverages the high speed connectivity the processing power of the communication device itself and or the local or network servers to enable the software radio implementation. This implementation enables User A and User B to be discovered and dynamically matched for secure and efficient communication utilizing the Device Relations Manager DRM. The DRM is a software management utility for managing interaction between communication devices based on the Device Profiles. The DRM software is enabled to reside on the communication device and or the local network servers. The DRM enables the discovery of the communication device in totality that is all the I O channels and personality profiles of User A by User B and or the discovery of only the designated channels and personality profiles of the User A by User B. The user is enabled to designate certain I O channels as public and others as private on a multi channel communication device and or multiplex a single channel for the designated plurality of uses. Communication between devices is enabled for specifically matched communication devices based on device profiles and user profiles and the relevant personality profiles of the user.

The present disclosure by the use of the MMTR or other hardware software implementation enables each communication device to send a periodic Device and Service Discovery signal DSD signal on one or more designated channels to discover other communication devices and or matched Service providers. The DSD signal comprises of wired or wireless communication means inclusive of RF Wi Fi Bluetooth Infrared wireless USB Session Initiated Protocol SIP and other means. Without specific dialing from one device to another device discovery is made automatically when the DSD signal of the device of User A is recognized by the device of User B. The mobile device users service providers and intelligent appliances are enabled to send the DSD signal periodically enable or disable the signal and block the signal in the even they do not wish to be discovered. This enables the determination of whether the other communication devices service providers are matched enabling secure and efficient communication and or negotiation in the event there is no match indicated. The DSD signal matching function is performed by the Match Engine at the communication device level and or the Matching Server or the Escrow Server level using the rules algorithms defined selected by the Users. These embodiments of the present disclosure enable the discovery of other Intelligent Appliances and the speedy and automatic transition of the User from one environment to another environment such as from a home to an automobile from the automobile to the office from the office to the automobile and from the automobile back to the home using a single communication device as a enabling tool. In this system configuration the user is also enabled to contact the other users or providers without necessarily going through the wireless service provider by utilizing direct software radio technology and using the direct Transmit Receive capabilities of the device.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the Match Engine located in the communication device enables the discovery and use of wired or wireless applications that are best suited and matched to the user on one or more communication channels of a multi channel communication device. Alternately the communication device may comprise of a Multi Channel Multiplexing Transmitter and Receiver enabling the input and output channels to be multiplexed based on the best match at a given time for a particular application. The Match Engine provisions different types of user requested services on the appropriate communication channel.

The following description and examples illustrate and teach the embodiments of the present disclosure 

User is enabled to maintain a plurality of private and public personalities. The User is enabled to select a particular personality profile and associate the TAG with the profile. The TAG is a short description of the specific personality profile type and it is written in XML or other formats for easy recognition by the Websites Matchbots and other entities. In addition the many features of the personality profile may be held as one or more States using finite state machine logic techniques.

As an example the User is a surgeon who selects and holds the professional personality profile of a surgeon a TAG is associated with this personality which in essence is a short descriptor for recognition by other users websites match sites and Matchbots. The TAG does not disclose the identity of the user. A large number of TAG types are available for different personality profiles such as homemaker teacher plumber gardener and others. In addition the user may select and hold different personality states within this profile of a surgeon. An example of a state is enable recognition by other surgeons and exclude recognition by medical sales representatives. A state may be held as enable recognition and communication with the chief surgical resident at the hospital. A state may be enable recognition by the hospital administrator. Similarly the User is enabled to select a different personality profile and a different TAG which describes him as individual user. In this example the surgeon as an individual holds a plurality of states for communication with others. The surgeon may hold state for online shopping a state for a specific website a state for drinking buddies and other states. In addition the state holding function is enabled to describe the user uniquely so that the specific personality profile is recognized by the website for a personalized website experience that is distinctly different from other users. The User has the option to have no TAG associated with a profile and hold no state. The TAG types may be defined by industry convention and common protocols such that a number of different personality profile types have associated with each of them a specific TAG. Thus different users may be described by the same TAG type for the same type personality profile. Alternately the TAG is enabled to be uniquely described by the user with the information desired by the user using XML for easy reading and recognition by other users and websites.

The website and the individual web pages are enabled to have different personality profiles TAG and hold state. The prior art does not enable a user to experience a personalized experience when visiting a particular website. The experience is same for all users. The website recognizes the personality profile TAG of the user in this example a surgeon who is visiting the site and automatically reconfigures the entire website or some set of the website to conform to the personality profile of the surgeon. In addition once the reconfiguration is executed the individual web pages links and functionality are structured to meet the requirement of this user profile. In this case the website the web pages links and functionality can be held in one or more states. When a different user with a different personality profile visits the website the website now assumes a different website personality profile and responds to the new user. The TAG of the website may be recognized by the user as the user navigates the web and enables the user to skip the website. As an example pornographic websites may be required to carry a unique TAG. The website TAG when recognized by the user TAG enables the user to immediately skip the website. Alternately the website is enabled to recognize the TAG associated with the personality profile of a minor and block the contents from being accessed by the minor. The option of selecting and setting the TAG is at the user discretion and the website discretion respectively.

The attributes of the Product and or the Service are characterized by one or more personality profiles. Thus a Product may be described by its technical specifications in addition to attributes such as color shape size weight and others. Hence a product or service is enabled to have one or more personality profiles. Each personality profile is characterized by the TAG and one or more states. An example of the product state is the color normally available in red white and blue but currently the state held is blue which indicates that only the blue color is available. The user visits a website of a shirt maker utilizing a personality profile that includes the user s TAG and the state which in this case is blue. The website recognizes the personality TAG of the user and the website is automatically transformed to conform to the user s personality profile. The user is matched with the product by matching the user s personality profile with the product profile and state.

The prior art communication methodology is to push the e mails and other electronic communication to the user s communication device directly or by the intermediate step of a service provider and the associated servers such as an e mail server. This methodology has a number of inherent problems that require the user to take actions to screen and or block undesirable communication. The limitations of the prior art result in over fifty percent of the e mail communications to be spam as of the time of the present disclosure. The novel embodiments of present Matching Network system disclosure enable a new paradigm of electronic communication based on empowering the user for pulling the matched communications rather than having all of the communications pushed on to the user. The system of the present disclosure enables multiple users to maintain their own websites reflecting the user s plurality of public and private personalities. Said websites having the capability to be recognized or being able to recognize a Matchbot of the present disclosure and enabled to provide a stateful behavioral response specific to the Matchbot.

As an example the user A is enabled to post various types of messages intended for User B in one or more private and public directories on User A s website. Similarly User B is enabled to post various types of messages intended for User A in one or more private and public directories on User B s website. The types of messages that could be posted are e mail voice mail audio mail private and public bulletin boards image mail video mail data mail and others and the combinations thereof. User A and User B may each log onto the other s website and peruse the permitted directories maintained by one another. The only communication which is sent out by A to B and by B to A such as by e mail is that there are a number of messages posted in a directory intended for each other defining the categories and priorities of their postings. The Users A and B may visit the websites of the other read the messages and download and save the messages to their own communication device or their own server if desired. The Matching Network system of the present disclosure ensures that in the event A and B are matched by one or more personality profiles and matched as either individuals or as part of one or more groups then the message postings are deemed as a matched communication and classified as such. If there is no match between User A and User B then the option of visiting the sites of each other is a matter of curiosity and is entirely up to the user s discretion. Communications in the future are likely to be highly bandwidth intensive comprising of image and video and the users have a need to limit and utilize the bandwidth primarily for intended and matched communications.

The matched communication methodology of the present disclosure ensures that the spam is limited the communication bandwidth is used effectively and there is no loss in precious time which is a rare commodity for the user. The foregoing significant improvements describe the method wherein the users still have to act on their own to pull the matched communications. However in another embodiment of the present disclosure the User A and User B may each deploy their own personalized Matchbot at a desired frequency and for a desired purpose said Matchbot having the appropriate TAG and state to traverse the Web and connect with the intended target website of each other to intelligently pull the messages of relevance and or index the messages for matching by the Match Engine using their own personal rules and algorithms at the communication device level the Local Server level and or one or more of the Network Server level.

The processing power of the communication device and the servers and the wired or wireless connectivity is thus intelligently leveraged for intended and secure communication between matched entities and the unmatched entities are excluded or flagged. These novel embodiments of the Matching Network system of the present disclosure significantly alter the communication methods of the prior art and enable a new communication paradigm that puts the user in full control to efficiently and effectively communicate across the user s Personal Matching Network and the Group Matching Networks.

Another novel method of the present disclosure for ensuring desired and secure communication is to enable matched communication from and between people in the User s personal matching network based on degrees of connectivity. The communications such as e mail are sorted and enabled for delivery or for pulling based on the degree of connectivity. The Personal Routing Protocol PRP enables the sorting and screening. As an example the communications to the User from other users that are connected at the first degree level is easily enabled and prioritized as Level 1 the communications from the individuals that are at the second degree level of connectivity is Level 2 and so on to Level N communications. The ability for the User to block communications from individuals within the level or from any level is enabled. The firewalls and filters for secure and desired communications are thus based on the level of connectivity across personal and group networks and implemented by means of the Personal Routing Protocols PRP and Group Routing Protocols GRP.

The Personal Relations Management PRM and the Group Relations Management GRM software enable the management of the communications enabling the user to communicate efficiently with a large and growing number of matched contacts and potential matches. The Matching Network system of the present disclosure also enables a large number of levels of contact with users any where in the world said users being separated by one degree or N degrees of connectivity said users communicating in same or different languages said users being matched by one or more personality profiles by utilizing the processing power of the communication device by itself and or in conjunction with the local or network servers to execute language translation to facilitate efficient communication and collaboration.

In the prior art the web pages e mail and other textual content is in HTML format which lends itself for deceptive communication. The present disclosure enables textual content in HTML format to be automatically converted to XML format for screening purposes by the Matchbot and back to HTML. The Matchbot screens by using the rules and the defined sentence structure word directory selected by the user. This enables tracking of content that is offensive or misleading and further enables delivery or viewing of content that meets the user s rules. Further the Matchbot is enabled to index web pages and the content of web pages that meet the match criteria.

The Matching Process utilizing the Match Engine is illustrated with the following process. Other combination of matching process utilizing the embodiments of the present disclosure are possible and the following process explained herein for illustrative purposes is not to be construed as limiting.

1. The user is described by one or more private and public personality profiles and an associated rules instruction set.

2. The Personality Profile may exist as a fully compiled descriptive set and or consist of one or more personality profile components which when compiled generate the personality profile. The full profile and or the individual personality profile components are encrypted and stored in a designated location such as the communication device CD and or may reside on the network on one or more servers. The compilation may take place in the designated location specified by the user. The objective of deconstructing and dynamically reconstructing compiling is to provide a high degree of security.

4. The Personality Profile Data Base is resident on the Communication Device CD and or the appropriate Local Server LS the Network Server NS the Escrow Server ES or the Match Site. The user retains the discretion on where to maintain the personality profile database and the permissions.

5. The Match Engines of varying capabilities are resident on the communication device and or the network servers.

6. The Match Engine comprises of the Rules Processor but in certain configurations the Rules Processor is enabled to be external to the Match Engine.

7. The Personality Profile and its components are for example described in XML extensible markup language format. Other implementations using other software languages are possible.

8. Additionally the personality profile is characterized by the TAG that allows classification by its type to allow easy and speedy recognition by the Match Engines the Match Sites Websites Search Sites and the Servers and other communication devices.

9. The personality profile is enabled with a plurality of States further describing one or more purposes with the ability to hold the State for a designated period of time or purpose.

10. The TAG is described in XML or other software conforming to a generally acceptable recognition protocol or is written such that different protocols are enabled to interpret independently.

11. The User generates a Query for information or transaction using a Web Browser. The present disclosure anticipates non Browser applications that include voice based uses.

12. The Query is associated with a user s private or public personality profile. A quick choice for example from a pull down menu is enabled to choose a personality profile or a default personality profile is enabled. Additionally the appropriate personality profile is automatically selected based on contextual awareness recognition of other communication devices servers in the communication loop location language and other factors.

13. The Query is activated manually by the user who is communicating via the Internet. Alternately the query is attached to a Matchbot. The Matchbot is enabled additionally with the desired personality profile. The Matchbot implementation is enabled in software. The Matchbot seeks and delivers matched data or matched data sets from ordered and or random data.

14. The Matchbot is launched to seek specific targeted information that meets the personality profile and user defined rules to enable matching by the Match Engine.

15. The Matchbot is enabled to be launched from a particular communication device and or a server. The origin and destination of the Matchbot need not be the same. The destination of the Matchbot depends on the node in the network where the matching process by the Match Engine takes place.

16. The Matchbot is launched and targeted at one or more specific websites and or enabled to find target websites that are likely to contain the desired information. Additionally the websites have their own personality profiles and Tags for easy recognition by the Matchbot.

17. The Matchbot is configurable with one or more target URL or IP addresses and one or more return addresses. The Matchbot is enabled to be encrypted.

18. Matchbot is enabled for a specific purpose and mission. The Matchbot may be launched at a desired time or may be launched periodically. Multiple Matchbots may be launched by the User or the Website.

19. The Matchbot itself is enabled to determine one or more levels of relevancy by comparing the target TAG the coded personality profile instructions before presenting the data to the Match Engine.

20. Users have the ability to modify and adjust their match criteria and present the results in a graphical user friendly format in conjunction with the communication device interface and the match engine.

21. The matching is enabled via the information acquired in digital form or alternately determined intuitively by people themselves. The user is enabled to narrow or relax match criteria and iterate through a number of potential matches.

22. The Matchbot navigates the web looking for matching websites matching information matching products and matching services and delivers the matched data to the communication device or the server or alternately delivers data that meets certain matching criteria which then is analyzed further and matched by the Match Engine located on the communication device and or the Intranet Internet servers. In the special case where there is no match requested or no matching parameter designated the Matchbot still is enabled with personality profiles TAG and states and in this event the Matchbot is configured for intelligent searching. The Matchbot is also enabled with additional coding in the TAG and the states to be action oriented and empowered by the user to execute designated transactions upon determining that a desired match exists.

23. The present disclosure enables matching of the user s request for information products and services by the means of the Matchbot and the Match Engine. The Matchbot is characterized by one or more personality profiles said personality profiles matching the personality profile of the user. The Matchbot in addition is characterized by the TAG and is capable of holding one or more states. An example of the state is that the Matchbot is enabled to exist for one or more time periods or is enabled for a specific purpose or is launched at a desired frequency from the communication device and or the server.

24. The Match Engine processes the data for relevancy as defined by the user. The user is enabled to select one or more matching algorithms. Or select default algorithms resident on the Match Engine. The Match Engine enables transmission of meta data and control data between two or more entities that need to communicate or perform computations. The Match Engine application programming interfaces specify the format of the meta data. This syntax is made as an open specification such that a variety of systems may process the meta data format. A language such as XML extensible markup language is used to specify this meta data format. The storage of the meta data or control data is enabled in one or more application specific data bases on a Storage Processor for efficient matching. The Storage Processor and storage media is configured to be part of the Match Engine or external to the Match Engine on a storage area network and or other local area or network server. The Match Engine meta data is stored in a user specific data base. The meta data is grouped together such that it forms a key that can be provided to a content addressable memory. These keys are passed to a Rules Processor for rule based processing and matching

25. The Match Engine utilizes the user defined selected personality profiles behavior models rules and algorithms to determine a match. The Rules Processor serves as a content addressable memory and allows for rules to be codified. A relationship between various parameters may be programmed into the Rule Processor. The Rules Processor is intended to be normally part of the Match Engine and in certain instances is configured to be on the communication device the local area server or the network servers. The Rule Processor may operate with rules that are ordered from most specific to least specific. The intention is to efficiently facilitate the most specific match. A default entry is enabled in the Rule Processor. A set of parameters is input to the Rule Processor causing the appropriate processing to be performed for that specific rule to derive the most specific output for a match. The rule is expressed in binary form or in a string format.

26. The Match Engine enables the discovery and use of wired or wireless applications that are best suited and matched to the user. The Match Engine is used in the adaptation of the wireless communication protocols. One or more users communicating by wireless means maintain a behavioral model and finite state machine. Since the wireless medium are constantly changing in terms of noise parameters and channel characteristics a behavioral model is employed to respond to a variety of dynamic real time stimuli. Each user that is communicating maintains a profile that is determined by the type of mobile device geographical location and the specific application at a given time. The application profile describes the application s communication requirements. These parameters are expressed at a high level and translated at lower layers into specific operations. The state of the wireless protocol is changed based on the wireless application profile. Upon a change to the wireless communication protocol the Match Engine facilitates the negotiation of new communication parameters. As an example these parameters may indicate that the power level should be increased so as to overcome the higher noise seen at the receiver. The negotiations between the two communication devices are facilitated by the Match Engine. The Match Engine enables adaptable wireless networking applications for mobile devices and intelligent appliances.

27. The Match Engine enables the discovery of wireless devices Intelligent Appliances and the appropriate service offering by the wireless service provider. The Match Engine enables service providers to offer customized services to wireless users in a home or office environment through behavioral modeling and matching. As an example if a personality profile resident on a wireless enabled laptop identifies a particular user as an executive then requests to the wireless printer may be queued in such a way that the executive s profile places him into an expedite queue that will be processed at a higher priority. Alternatively the wireless enabled printer may use the Match Engine Infrastructure to behave in manner such that it assigns no special weight or a higher weight to a user based on the personality profile. The modeling of the user and the behavior of both the client device as well as the printer leverages the Match Engine to provide an enhanced wireless experience.

28. As an illustrative example the Match Engine is configurable to serve the needs of the healthcare industry by enabling the matching of symptoms and diseases. Users are enabled to match their particular symptoms with symptoms aggregated among thousands of other users to determine similar patterns. The Match Engine is used in the behavioral modeling of the user and the disease to determine if a match exists. The Match Engine has utility for similar applications not specifically enumerated herein.

29. The Match process and Match Engine of the present disclosure characterize the User the Matcher who is the requester and the target which is the Matcher. Unlike the search based and Search Engine processes of the prior art the match based processes and the Match Engine enable enhanced utility for the Internet user.

The novel embodiments of the present disclosure taken alone or in combination are applicable for match based processes search based processes and the combination of search and match based processes.

The Personality Transactions Management PTM software enables the consumer to discover products and execute transactions based on the user personality profiles and the product personality profiles. The Customer Satisfaction Management CSM software relates the products and services desired by the user said user being characterized by personality profiles and behavior models and said products and services being similarly characterized such that the user who is the consumer is able to receive satisfactory service from the vendor by means of matching the requirements of the consumer and the ability of the vendor to provide. The PTM and CSM software is enabled to reside at the communication device level and or on the local or network server. The Matchbot is configurable to perform matched discovery of the partial or full range of products and services which the vendor website is able to deliver and automatically either deliver the information or execute the matched transaction desired by the user.

Now referring in detail to the consumer A and consumer B are enabled to have one or more consumer profiles and utilize communication devices and respectively. The consumer A selects a consumer personality profiles from a plurality of profiles to execute a transaction. In this case the consumer is interested in buying the product P which in the profile of A is not related to other products or services. However the products P P and the service S are related and grouped and generally require a single execution. Vendor X provides a product service group consisting of the specific group CA desired by the consumer A. As an example the product service group provided by the vendor and the product service group CA in this example may consist of toothpaste P toothbrush P and dental service S . The matching between the consumer A and Vendor X is negotiated by the means of . Consumer A and Consumer B are enabled to collaborate for purchases by the matching process of . Consumer B does not match with Vendor X as the vendor does not offer the groupings CB or CB desired by consumer B. However they may share products by executing joint purchases.

Vendor X is enabled to match with the supplier Y by means of the Vendor to Supplier matching process to determine the reordering or availability. In this scheme the vendor and the supplier have a real time awareness of the consumer s personality behavior and purchasing patterns. The Supplier Y is enabled to match with the manufacturer via the matching process to alert the manufacturer to ship or manufacture. The manufacturer is enabled to deliver products as individual items or in groups such as . The communication paths are wired or wireless. The Personal transactions Manager PTM resides at the communications level and or the server level. The Customer Satisfaction Manager resides at the vendor server level and or the manufacturer s server level.

The present novel disclosure enables the management of the entire supply chain based on consumer profiles and consumer behavior models enabling better real time management of inventory and customer responsiveness. The Supply Chain Management SCM software resides on the vendors and the manufacturer s servers and is enabled to model the consumer demand in detail and or in the aggregate based on personality profiles of the consumer the personality profiles of the vendor and the personality profiles of the manufacturer. In addition each node of the supply chain is characterized by the personality profiles and behavior models.

The foregoing description of specific embodiments of the present disclosure have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed and it should be understood that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present disclosure and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be defined by the Claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

