---

title: Automated internet threat detection and mitigation system and associated methods
abstract: A risk assessment and managed security system for network users provides security services for dealing with formidable cyber threats, malware creations and phishing techniques. Automated solutions in combination with human-driven solutions establish an always-alert positioning for incident anticipation, mitigation, discovery and response. A proactive, intelligence-driven and customized approach is taken to protect network users. Assessments of threats are made before and after a breach. Cyber threats are identified in advance of a resulting network problem, and automated analysis locates the threats and stops them from having an adverse effect. Humans can focus on the high-level view, instead of looking at every single potential problem area. Troubling patterns may be reviewed within the network environment to identify issues. Cyber analysis is conducted to provide a baseline over time via statistically proven, predictive models that anticipate vulnerabilities brought on by social-media usage, Web surfing and other behaviors that invite risk.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258321&OS=09258321&RS=09258321
owner: Raytheon Foreground Security, Inc.
number: 09258321
owner_city: Heathrow
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130822
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 692 481 for System and Method for Securing Network Information Systems having filing date Aug. 23 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 771 990 for Automated Internet Threat Detection and Mitigation System and Associated Methods having filing date Mar. 4 2013 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and all commonly owned.

The present invention generally relates to network security and in particular to an automated system and method for detecting evaluating and reporting network threats

As is well known in the art Internet users and organizations must keep up with today s increasingly formidable cyber threats as a dizzying array of malware creations and phishing techniques continue to grow in sophistication and sheer numbers. There is a need for a combination of automated and human driven solutions to establish always alert positioning for incident anticipation mitigation discovery and response. While nearly all Managed Security Service Providers MSSPs look only for red lights and then simply pass this information along to customers it is desirable to have systems and methods that take a proactive intelligence driven and customized approach to protect network users from even the most intricately conceived threats.

Embodiments of the present invention provide risk assessment and managed security systems and methods for network users such as commercial organizations by way of example and provide managed security services knowing that organizations must deal with formidable cyber threats malware creations and phishing techniques. Embodiments of the invention provide automated solutions and a combination of automated and human driven solutions to establish an always alert positioning for incident anticipation mitigation discovery proactive and response. Embodiments of the invention include systems and methods that take a intelligence driven and customized approach to protect network users from even the most intricately conceived threats.

The teachings of the present invention go beyond infrastructure monitoring and event notification as is typical in the art. It is realized that there are endless varieties of exploiting methods malware manifestations and anonymization strategies that routinely evade well known controls. Networks are best served by assessments of events before and after a breach from outside experts as people within organizations are typically busy enough with their other IT related responsibilities. Embodiments of the present invention identify threats in advance of a resulting network problem by way of example and then automate analysis of all data to find those threats and stop them from having an adverse effect. Automated systems and methods blanket the enterprise landscape so humans can focus on the high level view instead of looking at every single potential problem area. Once guided by the automated system and methods of the present invention a person may review troubling patterns within the relative network environment to identify issues. Such functionality is combined with insights from users the Intelligence Community IC and industry open source resources. Cyber analysis is conducted to provide a baseline over time via statistically proven predictive models that anticipate vulnerabilities brought on by social media usage Web surfing and other behaviors that invite risk.

One embodiment of the invention may be a computer implemented system for automated internet threat detection and mitigation wherein the system may comprise a centralized database and a customer database operable with the centralized database. A threat Intelligence subsystem may receive intelligence data from a plurality of external intelligence sources and an analytics subsystem communicates with the threat intelligence subsystem for tracking accuracy and relevance of the intelligence data wherein suspicious patterns are transmitted to the centralized database for use by automatic query security tools in a customer network environment. The system may further comprise a data gathering subsystem for gathering public data from a plurality of website sources sufficient for providing context for the analytics subsystem and a portal subsystem comprising at least one of an analyst portal and a customer portal The analyst portal allows analysts to query the customer database and incidents detected resulting from patterns from the threat intelligence segment. The analyst portal tracks various metrics of analyst performance and provides feedback to the system. The customer portal may allow the customer to view the analyst performance metrics as well as customize threat intelligence feeds local security tools and descriptions of the customer environment and customer assets and wherein the customer portal provides information feedback for the system.

The threat Intelligence subsystem may comprise a reader processor for ingesting the intelligence data from the plurality of external intelligence sources wherein the reader processor may processes the data received from each source for providing normalized data in a preselected standard format.

A filter processor may be operable with the centralized database and the customer database for comparing the threat intelligence data associated with customer enterprise security devices. Yet further an investigator processor may providing fill in data associated with suspicious events received from the filter processor wherein detailed incidents are passed from investigator processor through the filter processor to an incident database stored within at least one of the centralized database and the customer database and wherein identified suspicious events are passed to the investigator processor from the filter processor for researching additional details.

The computer implemented system may further comprise a Honeytrap subsystem deployed within the customer network environment wherein the Honeytrap subsystem monitors scams and cyber attacks and analyzes suspicious activity feeding resulting analysis data to the analytics subsystem.

A method aspect of the invention may comprise a computer implemented method for automated internet threat detection and mitigation wherein the method may include providing an analytics subsystem for identifying suspicious patterns of behavior in a customer network environment. A reader process may be operable with the analytics subsystem for gathering threat intelligence data from a plurality of threat intelligence sources including commercial and open source feeds as well as suspicious patterns identified by the analytic subsystem or specified by an analysts through a portal connection. The data may further be normalized by the reader processor for providing a common format. The method may further provide an initial believability factor based only on past performance of the relevant source of the threat intelligence data. By providing a gatekeeper processor operable with the reader processor and the analytics subsystem the gatekeeper may review the normalized intelligence data and compare the data to past incidents and rules operable by the analytics subsystem for refining the believability factor and severity of each indicator. By way of example if the believability factor is too low the gatekeeper processor may either ask a human to check the data or discard the believability factor indicated as unusable and overly likely to generate false positives.

By way of further example one method for automatically securing a network against threats may comprise collating data feeds for sending through a scanning system scanning the data feeds based on preselected categories by determining type of information discerned from each data feed tagging data from the data feed scanning and providing extended data pieces by adding context surrounding threats including at least one of geophysical customer verticals operating system adversary campaigns and a combination thereof storing the tagged data into at least one of a relational database and a NoSQL database wherein the storing is based on contextual tags and link analysis between contextual categories assigned to the data pieces automatically scanning multiple different programs based on enterprise tools for taking contextual threat data pieces and projecting the contextual threat data pieces into enterprise tools using application programming interfaces automatically discovering a match for at least one of the threat data pieces to the tagged data and sending an alert to a security information and event manager SIEM .

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown by way of illustration and example. This invention may however be embodied in many forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numerals refer to like elements.

With reference initially to one network security management system is illustrated by way of example according to the teachings of the present invention. Threat Intelligence Optimization TIO includes receiving multiple and different sources of intelligence and or data from data input deriving contextual inferences for those pieces of data and tagging the information appropriately to then disseminate into enterprise security solutions as an active defense that a network owner or user is relying upon for services. As will be detailed later in this disclosure automation occurs at different stages. Cyveillance is performed and data normalized and delivered to a threat intelligence database. Information is also pulled from customer environment such as with baselining statistics modeling predictive models Next Gen Honeynet MetaData profiling Incident Response and the like. By automating the analysis from the created database there is no need for typical Tier analysts.

With continued reference to an improved Honeynet herein referred to as a HoneyTrap is provided and inlcudes an active VLAN within a customer or owner network. As will be further detailed later the HoneyTrap mimics or copies critical and common systems within the customer environment. There is active monitoring on network ports portal and end point systems using forensic tool sets. Once an APT or Insider or Intruder tries to move laterally within an environment the Intruder is identified instantly and an IOC created. When the HoneyTrap becomes infected Forensic and IR tool sets instantly alert and create the IOC. Not only are Tier analysts alerted via the portal from the threat intelligence optimization but different scenario based approaches for a customer are also made available to lower response time to incidents and also help mitigate or manage incidents better. The data normalization and fusion take place with data analytics bringing the process together. The threat intelligence DB automates analysis of all the normalized data. Analysts may investigate anything that appears. As illustrated with continued reference to a Big Data Analytics platform baselines the network environment detects anomalies or statistical detection and then alerts an analyst. When something is detected IR F tools are utilized to investigate further along with Honeynet Malware environment. The Active Defenses are developed to respond and eradicate the intruder. Threat intelligence is updated. Once data is normalized fused it can be sent into the Big Data Analytics platform where machine learning code can perform specific automated analysis as will be further detailed below.

Threat intelligence reading combining and using Threat Intel from many sources will ensure that a network system is protected against omitting important patterns. Rating the believability of each source with Analyst Feedback and comparing new threat intelligence to historical incidents helps protect clients users from wasting Analyst time on false positives. The threat intelligence also provides an ongoing check of the effectiveness of the analytics system. This data provides context for Honeytrap and data gathering operations.

Reference is now made to for one embodiment of the system directed to automated threat detection and mitigation wherein a threat intelligence subsystem includes a Reader which assigns each pattern a severity value based on descriptors available from several intelligence sources . A Gatekeeper assigns a believability based on past performance of patterns from each of the intelligence sources . A Filter uses the threat intelligence to query each customer s Security Tools and an Investigator does initial automated follow up analysis to provide a detailed picture of each identified incident adjusting severity believability based on what it finds. This investigation includes gathering of raw patent capture PCAP and log information both before and after a detected incident. Incidents with high believability and severity are given priority. As human analysts fill out incident reports the system incorporates their findings to improve its estimates of believability and severity. This allows the system to automatically adjust to emphasize the most important threats. This feedback process happens both for individual customers and for the system as a whole.

In one embodiment the Reader and Gatekeeper are installed at a central location such as at a Foreground facility by way of example. This will minimize the number of requests for information which will be used by multiple customers. For one embodiment the Reader uses a modular design so that new intelligence sources can be easily added.

It is sometimes possible for attackers to monitor reputation databases and external network traffic to determine when they have been detected. To minimize the chances of this software of the Investigator anonymizes queries to the external Intelligence Sources . The Filter and the Investigator are installed separately for each client user and are may be modular to allow easy customization to each client s particular set of Security Tools.

A Manager subsystem handles coordination between each client s installation and a central database . This allows client installations to learn from each other based on patterns observed across all Foreground customers by way of example or within specific industries.

With continued reference to Analytics analytics software package by way of example uses a wide variety of tools to diagnose threats and suspicious activity. Although some individual tools may be well known they are rarely used in a security environment. By way of example a toolset referred to in as Big Data Analytics Platform may include statistical analysis link analysis and machine learning tools. These allow a leveraging of a variety of netflow and customer specific data to provide individualized continuously updated profiles of each customer s network including suspicious activity. Using a variety of analytic tools will help protect the system from unexpected attack vectors and attackers who use knowledge of the system to target clients. The use of the two axis analog ratings Severity and Believability for event incident analysis will help analysts quickly and easily distinguish between situations that are truly dangerous those that are suspicious and those that are low priority problems. Feedback from the Analysts will automatically be incorporated to improve the analytics across all customers.

By way of example challenges to be confronted through analytics may be divided into two categories Descriptive and Predictive.

Descriptive challenges focus on rapidly obtaining a large amount of detailed information. This information may be used either to do link analysis of an incident or to develop baseline models of normal behavior for particular users assets customers and external machines. These descriptions can then be presented to analysts to speed their investigations or used to develop Predictive tools.

Predictive tools use machine learning tools to prioritize threat intelligence to predict when and how attacks may occur and to refine the Descriptive tools so they discover and present the information most likely to be useful to an analyst.

Feedback between the Predictive and Descriptive tools and with the human analysts improves the operation of all three.

The Descriptive tools being implemented provide detailed information about each incident to the human analysts. When an analyst views a newly detected incident it will already include reputation and baseline information about each of the involved computers both internal and external. It can also show the amount of traffic to and from internal machines and suggest other incidents which may be related. When analysts file their reports the system will use their determinations of whether the event was a false positive what its severity was and which factors were important to improve the automated analysis for future incidents.

The Analytics component of this task handles the computation and databases necessary for this adaptation. The Investigator portion of the Threat Intelligence subsystem handles the data requests and assembly of the gathered information for each individual incident.

By way of example the behavior of each client is recorded and monitored for the client s internal machines and the external machines to which the system communicates. This allows normal patterns of use to be found including times of activity sizes of files transferred and web sites visited. This information provides useful context for incident analysis. Outliers can also be used to detect suspicious events. Implementing baselining on a broad basis will allow us to automatically build classifications of users companies assets and external sites. Clusters of machines that often communicate with each other may be expected to spread malware rapidly between them. Machines that are observed to communicate in large volumes with many other machines will be primary targets for attackers. Machines which frequently have external contact with a wide variety of sites may be especially frequent infection points. External sites which are often associated with detected incidents may become candidates for blacklisting or new threat intelligence signatures. Internal machines associated most frequently with infections may signal a need for user training or improved protection.

The baselining described above is one aspect of predicting when where and how attacks will occur. These predictions can be used to check the accuracy and relevance of descriptive models and to request increased numbers of analysts or analysts with particular skills. They can also be used to predict which data an analyst will find most useful. The predictive tools use a variety of machine learning algorithms and feedback from the analyst reports.

Predictive tools will draw additional inputs from broadly available data sets that are not specific to cyber security. These may include financial and political data for each client and its rivals. Such information may be useful to incident response in establishing likely actors and motives.

Some pieces of Threat Intelligence are tagged for specific industries and will be given higher priorities for customers within those industries. Some portions of the analytics subsystem will be installed separately at each client site. This will allow detection of customer specific and industry specific patterns even for threat intelligence which is not already tagged with that information. Feedback for that customer s incidents and baselining of that customer s assets will help to optimize the Threat Intelligence and Incident Analysis for that customer s needs.

By way of example one embodiment of the invention includes a computer implemented method for automatically securing a network against threats wherein the method comprises collating data feeds for sending through a scanning system scanning the data feeds based on preselected categories by determining type of information discerned from each data feed and tagging data from the data feed scanning. Extended data pieces are provided by adding context surrounding threats including at least one of geophysical customer verticals operating system adversary campaigns. In addition one or a combination of the following steps may include storing the tagged data into at least one of a relational database and a NoSQL database wherein the storing is based on contextual tags and link analysis between contextual categories assigned to the data pieces automatically scanning multiple different programs based on enterprise tools for taking contextual threat data pieces and projecting the contextual threat data pieces into enterprise tools using application programming interfaces automatically discovering a match for at least one of the threat data pieces to the tagged data and sending an alert to a security information and event manager SIEM .

Similarities between different customers and their incidents can be used to identify patterns across an entire customer base by way of example. These patterns and trends may be too subtle or statistically insignificant for each customer to recognize individually. They may also relate to broadly applicable financial or political indicators or to opportunistic attackers. Commonalities between many customers experiences can be used to refine the behavior of the Reader the Gatekeeper and the Manager portions of the Threat Intelligence subsystem above described with reference to . It will also be used to guide the adaptation of local installations of the Investigator to indicate training needs for analysts in general and to inform Foreground decisions about further development and resource allocation.

Much of the adaptation will be done through machine learning tools. There are many possible tools each of which has a variety of parameters which can be used to adjust its operation. Much of the challenge in developing a machine learning system is to choose an appropriate tool and to fine tune its parameters to give optimum performance. Many such tools may be run in parallel to better compare their operations. The majority of these tools will be Pupils which are used and modified on a trial basis. New Pupils can be added and underperforming ones can be discarded.

Each question that is given over to the machine learning components will have a single Teacher associated with it. This Teacher is itself a machine learning tool which is responsible for generating grading and modifying the various trial machine learning tools. The Teacher tracks the performance of each of its assigned Pupils learning which ones produce the best and fastest answers. The Teacher will also be able to create new Pupils and to discard those which consistently perform poorly. This automation will speed the development of machine learning algorithms to answer new questions.

With continued referee to an Analyst Portal allows Analysts to review events of interest prioritized by estimated severity and believability and shows them which events their coworkers have already claimed incidents. It also allows them to group multiple auto detected events together and to treat them as a single incident. The analysts assessment of incident severity and False Positives will be fed back into the Threat Intel database. A Client Portal allows a customer to quickly see which incidents their analysts are currently handling as well as histories of incidents. It may show which individual analysts are prioritizing high severity incidents which are handling the most incidents and trends in the analysts incident reports. It may also be used to recommend staffing levels based on the Analytics package .

With continued reference to and as initially introduced with reference to the Honeytrap according to the teachings of the present invention outperforms traditional honeypots by allowing analysts to shunt suspected processes and attackers onto a separate virtual LAN by way of example. This and a set of passive and active live forensic tools provide additional data for the system.

By way of further example regarding the Honeytrap one embodiment comprises a Honeytrap server forming a virtual local area network VLAN on a user network that looks like an actual part of the network and set up to attract an intruder as an actual function of the network. The Honeytrap provides a one way entry to a copy of the main server in terms of the domain so that it looks like the actual user network. As a result lateral hacking can be detected and once a hacker or intruder enters the user network. The intruder is encouraged to go laterally and enter into to the Honeytrap server. Once inside the Honeytrap the intruder can t leave and is trapped. This essentially keeps the intruder alive instead of shutting it down. By way of example typical Honeynet methods immediately shut down and lock out a threat and thereby re image a computer and thus lose the intelligence. As above described the Honeytrap of the present invention mimics the environment of the user network and keeps the threat alive so it can be learned how such a malware intruder works learn about it and then teaches the rest of the system to look for that particular malware intruder. Thus once the intruder is identified an indicator s of compromise IOC is created for the intruder the intruder is trapped in the Honeynet and information is populated to the appropriate users or to a general database.

Generally a Honeynet is well known in the art and is typically a separate network set up with intentional vulnerabilities. Its purpose is to invite attack so that attacker activities and methods can be studied and resulting information used to increase network security. Typically a Honeynet contains one or more honey pots including computer systems on the Internet expressly set up to attract and trap intruders who attempt to penetrate computer systems where they are not welcome. Although the primary purpose of a Honeynet is to gather information about methods and motives of the attacker the decoy network can benefit its operator by diverting attackers from a real network and its resources. There is a HoneyNet Project a non profit research organization dedicated to computer security and information sharing.

More specifically with regard to the Honeytrap according to the teachings of the present invention the Honeytrap mimics or copies critical and common systems within the customer environment e.g. DC DNS Database s Web Desktop File etc. . There is active monitoring on the network ports and end point systems using forensic tool sets Foreground IP and Open Source possibly commercial systems such as NetWitness . Once an APT or Insider or Intruder tries to move laterally within an environment the Intruder is identified instantly and an IOC created. The IOCs are plugged into the threat intelligence database DB and thus it is known where else in the environment the intruder may be moving or attempting penetration. When the Honeynet system becomes infected Forensic and IR tool sets instantly alert and create the IOCs. Once again that is plugged into the data fusion and it is known where else this has happened how it is happening and how they are communicating. The environment is black holed so there is no external communication but Malware Analysis is performed and it is learned how the Intruder acts looks feels and thus improved active defenses can be created to eradicate the Intruder form the rest of the network environment. This then feeds the Intel database no one else will have this info . By way of example if a customer system is infected the VLAN is instantly inserted and thus important IR F dataare not lost and there is no risk of further exposure or data loss.

By way of further example with reference again to from the threat intelligence optimization not only are Tier 4 analysts alerted but also two different scenario based approaches for a customer are made available to lower response time to incidents and also help mitigate or manage incidents better.

Active Honeypot Active Defense An alert is processed by a TIO threat optimization suite . Consider the example where four computers have been tagged as visiting a malicious dynamic DNS based host based in China from there those hosts are accessed via WMI or Windows API and the VLAN tag associated with those hosts is changed. This tag will maneuver these hosts to a quarantine. An Active Defense Quarantine mimics the internet with fake DNS faked IP addressing fake services and attempt to keep the computers running while a second part of Active Defense is deployed. The second part of Active Defense is an automated Incident Response. Once the machines have been tagged by the TIO and an alert has been sent to analysts the analysts may enact a memory forensics program a script to copy a memory dumping executable to the machines and dump the physical memory in order to capture the malicious content that may be installed on the machines. This is done through scripting xcopy and using commercial memory forensic tools. The active defense is thus to isolate contain surge and recover from incidents faster and allow creation of further intelligence for incident response teams that may deployed to the client.

Data Gathering takes place on a large scale including detailed netflow information and ongoing link analysis profiling of companies users machines and external contacted IPs as well as analysis from Honeytrap activity. Each customer s installation will track this information locally and send selected data back to the central location Foreground by way of example for comparison across multiple companies. This allows the analytics subsystem to discover industry wide trends and emerging threats. Subscribing to a variety of open source and limited distribution feeds features and benefits of Threat Intelligence continue to improve. These are currently being compared to each other and will be used to recognize omissions and false positives from individual Intel Sources. Additional tools such as web crawlers may be used to augment the Threat Intel data with publicly available information not specifically designed for security use. All these data will be normalized to automatically construct alerts warnings and threat intelligence customized to a customers need.

Further with regard to a data gathering Component intelligence gathering is provided that includes building an identical operating environment using virtualization technology. After an alert has been given off by the TIO the customer can choose to utilize military strategy in order to thwart adversaries such as replicating environments that are being attacked in real time through automation of vmware clones of DNS Mail WebMail AD Finance Servers Network File Shares. When attacked the opportunity exists to deceive adversaries.

The TIO alerts analysts who set in motion the automated move of infected computers to an isolated VLAN. By way of example the customer decides that there is likely an adversary with a motive to harm on a particular monitoring box or boxes. Automated Program using a vmware esx server application program interface stands up 3 replicated machines that appear in the isolated VLAN using the same hostnames and addressing scheme as the real operating environment. The malicious code running is kept running in memory or is prevented from connecting to the internet so that the adversary still performs the techniques in real time that can be monitored by full packet capture and Tier analysts in order to create indicators of compromise to match the adversaries movements on the cloned environment. This will also have the dual benefit of allowing for intelligence gathering against the adversary as the analysts will capture what specifically the adversary is after what types of information whether the adversary knows who to target for what whether the adversary has done his homework whether the adversary is already familiar with the internal network etc.

With reference again to data normalization and fusion take place wherein data the analytics brings the process together. The Threat Intel DB automates analysis of all normalized Data. Analysts may investigate anything that appears. Once data is normalized fused it can be sent into the Big Data Analytics platform where machine learning code can perform specific automated analysis including by way of example Baselining Systems Networks etc. Statistical Analysis Anomaly Detection and Near Real time correlation which a human cannot do . An example to consider includes A user logs in remotely from a geo IP that is not normal during a time frame that is not normal and accesses a critical system they don t normally access. At what point does it trigger One will base this on weighting of assets systems network segments types of data and by overall learning of machine code.

With reference again to the Threat Intelligence segment draws information from a wide variety of the external sources normalizing the data from each of them and storing it in the central database . The system will also work with the analytics subsystem to track the accuracy and relevance of different sources. In addition suspicious patterns are fed to the central database and a customer database to automatically query security tools in the customers environments.

The Data Gathering component includes a set of tools for gathering a broad set of data from many publicly available websites. It is intended to provide context for the analytics system. Natural language processing and broad economic financial and political data will help the analytics system understand and predict hacktivism state backed hackers and industrial espionage.

The Honeytrap includes systems or processes deployed within individual customer networks. These will watch for scans and other attacks and will analyze suspicious activity feeding more data into the analytics segment. They will monitor specific sets of files used by adversaries on compromised computer forming the basis of an early alerting system. They will be customized to their particular locations and may automatically incorporate infected machines quarantining them.

The Analytics subsystem will unify sources of data and will use machine learning tools to find and exploit patterns within the gathered information. Customer specific databases and the central incident database provide extensive records on how and when attacks have occurred. This information provides feedback to guide the machine learning. This internal information will be combined with the external contextual data to provide a detailed analysis of attacks.

The Portal above described with reference to is herein described by way of example as including includes two parts the analyst portal and the customer or client portal illustrated with reference to . The analyst portal will allow analysts to query the Customer Database and incidents detected by the system via patterns from the Threat Intelligence segment . It operates to direct incidents toward the analysts most suited for dealing with the specific attacks and affected assets. It tracks various metrics of analyst performance and provides feedback to the system. The customer portal allows managers to view analyst performance metrics as well as customize their threat intelligence feeds local security tools and descriptions of the customer s environment and assets. These choices will provide further feedback for the system .

With reference again to one portion of the Threat Intelligence subsystem which is directly responsible for ingesting data from the multiple Intelligence Sources is the Reader . For the embodiment herein described by way of example the Reader has a modular design that minimizes the amount of coding that needs to be done to add each additional Intelligence Source thus allowing new sources to be added quickly. The Reader places data from each source into a standard format and then passes the reformatted data to the Gatekeeper . Although nominally aimed at understanding a variety of the external Sources the Reader can also handle threat intelligence produced by predictive or investigative routines within our system. This allows patterns produced by the analytics engine to be used automatically.

The Gatekeeper functions to takes data from the Reader and assigns a believability based on past performance of each intelligence source and the similarity of new patterns to data associated with past events. This helps recognize patterns that will likely produce False Positives. Depending on the result of this analysis the prospective pattern may be dropped entirely fed directly into the incident database or referred to a human analyst for a decision.

The Filter compares each piece of threat intelligence in the incident database to the data associated with each of the customer s enterprise security devices or tools . It has a modular design analogous to that of the Reader allowing the system to easily support a number of enterprise security devices. When suspicious events are found these are passed to Investigator which researches additional details. Detailed incidents are then passed from Investigator through Filter to the incident database.

The Investigator incorporates an array of automated tools to fill in data associated with suspicious events it gets from the Filter . Whenever an event is detected the Investigator queries any of the customer s enterprise security devices and may be able to provide further information. This produces a more detailed picture of the event affected machines users and applications. The Investigator will also query external reputation databases geo location data and other potential sources of information to learn more about the programs and external entities involved in an incident. The investigator also reaches out to Internet databases such as who is databases in order to perform malicious domain lookups and compare registrations across domains alerted by threat intelligence. In addition the Investigator will query the analytics engine for relevant information. Taken together this quickly provides a detailed record of each incident that can be presented to the analyst. This saves the analyst time and speeds research and understanding of each incident.

The Manager component distributes the resulting normalized threat intelligence to the customers. If the indicator was data tagged by industry or company those tags will result in higher believability or severity for the specified targets and lower believability and severity for others.

The Filter acquires the indicators from the manager and sorts the indicators by severity and believability. Each of a customer s security tools is queried and centralized watch lists may be automatically generated which are then pushed out to the relevant security tools. When either the queries or watch lists generate a result the resulting event is passed to Investigator which component of the Threat Intelligence subsystem performs link analysis which is later presented as an automated option to the analyst in the reporting part of the portal and queries the analytics subsystem and all the enterprise security devices to provide a complete context for the incident. The Investigator may revise the severity and believability based on its findings. Identified incidents are given to the portal which provides feedback in the form of the analysts reports. These reports are then used to improve the operation of each component of the Threat Intelligence subsystem wherein analyst feedback may be provided as appropriate.

With continued reference to one of the responsibilities for the analytics engine is a Customer Specific Adaptation . Questions such as Which Intelligence Sources produce the fewest false positives Which machines applications and users are most frequently compromised and Which external entities are most frequently involved in attacking this customer can be answered based on accumulated data. These questions can then be used to prioritize new threat intelligence and organize the responses to suspicious events. A System wide Adaptation asks questions analogous to those of customer specific adaptation but spread across all Foreground customers by way of example. Baselining constructs profiles for normal activity associated with particular customer machines and external sites. Typical patterns may involve time file size and pairings between users files internal machines and external machines. Measuring and modeling these patterns can help identify unusual activity and unusual users. Incident Analysis uses detailed information from the Investigator and the customer s enterprise security devices or tools earlier described with reference to . Each datum collected from these tools can be compared to historical models established by the Baselining process and compared to data made available from the ongoing Data Gathering and HoneyTrap operations. This provides context to further identify possible malicious activity and to find which other machines may be vulnerable or already infected. Predictive Tools attempt to answer questions such as Would a human Analyst judge this incident to be a false positive When are attacks most likely and Which external events are most often correlated with each type of attack 

The various components being tracked to make the analytics adaptive and generalizable to a wide variety of security related database are addressed by a teacher Pupil Analytics package. An Analytics Database links to or replicates much of the information involved in the Threat Intelligence subsystem including full incident records including the Analysts reports and feedback information. It will also have the customers baselining information so that it can work from what it known about the usual flows of information asset management times at which particular sites are most accessed etc. In addition the analytics database will serve as a repository for external financial security and political information which may be useful in predicting either the timing or nature of attacks and which may be useful for providing context to incident response. The data in the Analytics Database can be described in terms of a number of Properties or Dimensions which correspond roughly to computer data types. Different Dimensions lend themselves to different sorts of statistical analysis and this information will be included in the description of each available Dimension.

A large number of Pupils will be present each of which is a particular machine learning algorithm aimed at answering a particular question. Each Pupil includes all the information necessary to describe its algorithm. This information includes the Dimensions used by the algorithm the general class of algorithm and per algorithm choices such as Distance Metric. A smaller number of Teachers will be available each of which is dedicated to answering a specific human posed Question about the analytic database and cyber security. The Teacher manages all the Pupils who share that Question. The Teachers will have metrics which can be used to grade how well each Pupil has done at answering the question in the past including number of correct answers as well as the time and memory necessary for each Pupil to work.

By way of further example and as illustrated with reference to B and C combined to illustrate a link analysis portal wherein a portal procedure takes the active attacks that are discovered through incident response teams. Threat optimization and searches provide a graphical display that customers can query by way of example. The portal is based on link analysis and actions created by adversaries and or malicious code on computers and inside the client infrastructure. With such a network owner or user can learn exactly where in the network the Intruder has appeared and take corrective action.

Flowcharts and block diagrams herein described illustrate architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of processors or systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. Therefore it will be understood by those of skill in the art that each block in the flowchart or block diagram may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable computer program instructions for implementing the specified logical function or functions. Further some implementations may include the functions in the blocks occurring out of the order herein presented. By way of non limiting example two blocks shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may at times be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and flowcharts and combinations of blocks in the block diagram and flowchart illustrations may be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that may direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Aspects of various embodiments may be embodied as a system method or computer program product and accordingly may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code and the like or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of various embodiments may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied thereon. It is understood that the computer implemented method herein described operates with readable media relating to non transitory media wherein the non transitory computer readable media comprise all computer readable media with the sole exception being a transitory propagating signal.

Any combination of one or more computer readable media may be utilized. A computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be by way of non limiting example an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific non limiting examples of the computer readable storage medium may include an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that may contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein by way of non limiting example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that may communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF and the like or any suitable combination thereof. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of various embodiments may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may also be written in a specialized language. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. The remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer by way of non limiting example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Although the invention has been described relative to various selected embodiments herein presented by way of example there are numerous variations and modifications that will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the claims hereto attached and supported by this specification the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described.

