---

title: Methods and apparatus to associate a mobile device with a panelist profile
abstract: Methods and apparatus are disclosed to associate a mobile device with a panelist profile. An example method includes initializing a metering application on the mobile device to operate with partial functionality, parsing a message log with the metering application to identify an installation message, extracting a telephone number from the installation message and saving to a memory of the mobile device, sending an initialization message based on the extracted telephone number to prompt an authorization message, and enabling full functionality of the metering application in response to receiving the authorization message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09220008&OS=09220008&RS=09220008
owner: The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
number: 09220008
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131014
---
This patent is a continuation and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 678 960 filed on Nov. 16 2012 which granted on Oct. 15 2013 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 559 918 entitled Methods and Apparatus to Associate a Mobile Device with a Panelist Profile which is a continuation and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 117 657 filed on May 27 2011 which granted on Nov. 20 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 315 620 entitled Methods and Apparatus to Associate a Mobile Device with a Panelist Profile which are both hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This disclosure relates generally to mobile device monitoring and more particularly to methods and apparatus to associate a mobile device with a panelist profile.

In recent years mobile applications sometimes referred to as apps have become a ubiquitous aspect of mobile devices such as wireless telephones. Wireless service providers wireless device manufacturers and or others may develop and or distribute mobile applications to facilitate one or more features for users of the mobile devices. Additionally one or more third parties may develop and or distribute mobile applications to operate on mobile devices that provide one or more services and or functions.

Services and or functions facilitated by the mobile applications may include but are not limited to entertainment e.g. games movies banking e.g. balance management money transfers navigation e.g. maps directions photography and or social media. An operating system of the mobile device may execute the mobile application and permit access to one or more native functions of the mobile device. Native functions of the mobile device may include but are not limited to wireless radios for transmitting and receiving broadcast radio voice information and or data information global positioning satellite functions to identify the location of the mobile device camera hardware to facilitate photography and or video recording light sensor s speakers and or headphones to facilitate audio output and or microphones to facilitate audio capture.

In some examples the mobile applications provided by wireless service providers wireless device manufacturers and or other parties are distributed to consumers through a wireless application market. For example the Android operating system includes an application market accessible to users of Android devices to allow for searching reviewing rating purchasing and or installing of mobile applications. In another example wireless devices manufactured by Apple route users to an AppStore through an interface named iTunes and or facilitate an AppStore interface on the device to allow for sending receiving rating purchasing and or installing applications. In still other examples other parties may provide users of mobile devices a uniform resource identifier URI to which the mobile device may navigate and install one or more mobile applications.

Methods and apparatus are disclosed to associate a mobile device with a panelist profile. An example method includes initializing a metering application on the mobile device to operate with partial functionality parsing a message log with the metering application to identify an installation message extracting a telephone number from the installation message and saving to a memory of the mobile device sending an initialization message based on the extracted telephone number to prompt an authorization message and enabling full functionality of the metering application in response to receiving the authorization message.

Some mobile applications have been developed to perform on device metering ODM that uses one or more facilities of the mobile device to detect and or record panelist activity. In some disclosed examples the ODM employs global positioning satellite GPS functions to identify where the panelist is located and or employs a microphone of the mobile device to sample audio information to which the panelist is exposed. In other disclosed examples the ODM monitors how the panelist interacts with the mobile device such as monitoring which web sites the panelist visits time of day usage key presses mobile device functions e.g. placing receiving calls text messages etc. collection of environmental details e.g. local lighting conditions local audio conditions current speed audio volumes audio samples etc. and or accessing one or more sensors of the mobile device to record environmental details. Market researchers and or other parties entities that seek panelist behavior information cooperate with willing participants that agree to be monitored with an ODM application. The information collected by the market researchers can be used to in part project e.g. extrapolate using statistical method s usage and or media exposure behaviors detected in the monitored panelist demographic onto a larger population of interest.

However to develop such statistical projections the participating panelists should be correctly and conveniently identified. If the candidate panelist finds the data entry too cumbersome the opportunity to convert that candidate panelist to a confirmed participating panelist may be lost. As a result persons are recruited to participate in a panel. Such persons candidate panelists are asked to register with a monitoring system. As part of that process the candidate panelist may be asked to provide demographics information e.g. income gender race etc. and or other identification information name e mail etc. . For example the panelist s mobile device needs to be associated with some identifier so that the collected data from the ODM application can be associated with the proper panelist. Thus the process of attempting to recruit a panelist e.g. convert a candidate panelist to a participating panelist typically involves collection of a significant amount of data. Moreover some of the data to be collected may not be easily obtained or immediately known by the candidate panelist. For example the mobile device might be identified by an international mobile equipment identity IMEI number an electronic serial number ESN an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI number etc. not readily known by the candidate panelist. Participation in the panel by the candidate panelist may be thwarted by a lack of interest to take extra steps to identify and or otherwise locate any such numeric and or alphanumeric values deemed cumbersome lengthy or unknown to the candidate panelist. For example participation may be thwarted because the information to be entered by the candidate panelist is lengthy and or difficult to obtain e.g. powering off the phone and removing the battery cover to identify the IMEI number . Active requirements imposed upon a candidate panelist tends to decrease panelist participation due to in part adversity to becoming encumbered with configuration tasks.

Example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosure herein overcome such problems by allowing a panelist to provide commonly known device information and then using an application to automatically retrieve less commonly known information such as a phone number or an IMEI number. In such examples during the candidate panelist information entry e.g. via their home PC the panelist provides the phone number e.g. commonly known information associated with their mobile device. After such entry an example ODM server forwards for example a short message service SMS message to the corresponding mobile device using the provided phone number. The SMS text message of such examples includes a link which may be selected to download an ODM application. In examples disclosed herein to associate a mobile device with a panelist profile the ODM application transmits a user identifier with the mobile device telephone number back to the ODM server. However in some circumstances the ODM application operating on the mobile device is at least initially unaware of the telephone number of the mobile device. For example the mobile device may limit the access of applications to one or more resources of the operating system and or hardware that do not reveal the telephone number of the mobile device. In some circumstances one or more security policies of the mobile device limit the ability of the application to access one or more portions of the mobile device the OS and or the features thereof. In still other circumstances the mobile device itself may have no need to have access and or knowledge of its own phone number because the wireless service provider translates all communication to from the mobile device using an alternate identifier such as an IMEI number. In other words while a mobile device such as a wireless telephone is typically associated with a telephone number to allow others to call the mobile device the association between the telephone number and the number that causes the mobile device to ring may occur within the infrastructure of the wireless service provider. As such the mobile device and or the application s executing on the mobile device may not have access to or knowledge of the telephone number associated with the mobile device.

In other examples the core layer s may have access to the telephone associated with the mobile device for the purpose of displaying the telephone number on a display of the mobile device . However the example mobile device may have no other need or utility for the telephone number because for example the mobile device and the network on which it operates employs the IMEI number of the mobile device to send and or receive calls and or text messages. Caller identification translation e.g. from phone number to IMEI number occurs in some examples by way of one or more IMEI lookup tables maintained and or otherwise operated by the service provider of the mobile device .

Example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein may be used to cause an ODM application executing on a mobile device to obtain and or otherwise become aware of the phone number associated with the mobile device. In some examples after the ODM application obtains and or otherwise identifies the phone number the ODM application operating on the mobile device may register with the ODM server without requiring the panelist to perform any further action s during an ODM application registration process that associates a user of the mobile device with a panelist profile e.g. completing the conversion of a candidate panelist to a panelist . In other words example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein automatically register a mobile device with the ODM server without requiring the panelist to manually identify one or more less commonly known numbers associated with the mobile device that can identify an association between the panelist the mobile device and or the information associated with the panelist and mobile device. As described above while the mobile device has a unique IMEI number and or an ESN such example less commonly known numbers are typically unfamiliar to users and or are relatively lengthy when compared to commonly known seven to ten digit telephone numbers.

In some examples the ODM server hosts a web presence e.g. a web site via a registration server which may be separate from the ODM server to collect information from a candidate panelist. Information collected via the example registration server of includes but is not limited to name address gender income ethnicity household size e.g. marital status number of children number of pets etc. phone number e mail address and or occupation. In the example of an ODM server manager presents the candidate panelist with instructions a privacy agreement a membership agreement a terms of service agreement and or other information via the registration server . Such information may be related to duties expectations and or rewards of participating as a panelist. The example ODM server manager of may invoke an identification ID generator to generate a unique panelist identifier that is associated with the candidate panelist after sufficient relevant information is entered at one or more web pages via the registration server and after an indication of agreement to the privacy terms of service and or membership agreement has been received e.g. an indication that the candidate panelist has clicked on an agree button of a web site . As described in further detail below the ODM application of the illustrated example is only provided to candidate panelists and or panelists that have agreed to a privacy terms of service and or a membership agreement sometimes referred to herein as confirmed panelist .

In the illustrated example a server URI generator generates a custom uniform resource identifier URI that includes the panelist phone number entered by the candidate panelist via the registration server and the unique panelist identifier generated by the example ID generator . Additionally a server SMS generator of the illustrated example generates an installation SMS message including the custom URI and a text instruction for transmission to the phone number provided by the panelist. The example server SMS generator of sends the installation SMS to the mobile device via the network and or the wireless infrastructure .

As described in further detail below the installation SMS message is generated by the example server SMS generator of the ODM server to include a phone number of the mobile device that was previously provided by the candidate panelist when providing information via the web site facilitated by the example registration server of the ODM server e.g. information provided by the panelist via their home computer during registration . When the candidate panelist receives the installation SMS message at their mobile device the candidate panelist is presented with the URI that can be selected to initiate a download operation of the ODM application. An example SMS message including an example text instruction and corresponding URI is 

 Please click the link to download the application. http odm.companyxyz.com enroll GetApp pn 4142825176 id 98787253. 

In the above example installation SMS message the phone number of the panelist i.e. 4142825176 is embedded into the URI and the unique panelist identifier i.e. 98787253 is embedded into the URI. As used herein the term URI and URL are interchangeable. In some examples the unique panelist identifier may be generated as a unique value by the example ID generator before during or after the candidate panelist enters their information into the web site managed by the registration server . In other examples the ODM server manager invokes an e mail generator to embed the custom URI generated by the server URI generator and an instruction message in an e mail message addressed to the candidate panelist. For example in the event that attempts to transmit SMS messages are unsuccessful or are not deemed reliable providing an installation e mail rather than or in addition to the installation SMS text message may result in a successful installation of the ODM application. As used herein the term installation message includes e.g. is generic to an installation SMS message and or an installation e mail message.

In response to the candidate panelist selecting the received URI in the installation message via the mobile device an ODM application is downloaded from the ODM server or any other server referred to by the installation message e.g. a server referenced by the aforementioned example URI . The example application of the illustrated example is installed on the mobile device and includes an installation message parser a browser manager a mobile message generator and a mobile URI generator . The example application of the illustrated example invokes the installation message parser to parse the received installation message and extract the phone number and or the unique panelist identifier. In some examples the installation message parser identifies an SMS log of the mobile device to retrieve the installation message. In other examples a browser manager identifies a browser history log and or an e mail message list of the mobile device to retrieve the installation message. The SMS log may store a historical and or chronological list of text messages received by the example mobile device . Similarly the browser and or e mail list may store a historical and or chronological list of web site links and or sent received e mail messages. As described above because some mobile devices do not permit applications to access one or more portions of the operating system and or hardware that may reveal a phone number that corresponds to the mobile device the example application of makes one or more alternate attempts to identify a phone number associated with the mobile device . While some mobile device operating systems include an Application Programming Interface API such APIs may reveal a limited set of function calls for an application that do not permit complete access to mobile device hardware and or other information related to the mobile device. For example the Symbian mobile phone operating system does not permit third party applications to acquire the phone number of the mobile device.

In some examples the API or other manner of access reveals an International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI number which is unique to each phone. However IMEI numbers are not readily identified by and or familiar to many candidate panelists. Thus it is burdensome to request the IMEI number s from such candidate panelist s at the web site when soliciting other registration demographic and or personal information. Even if the IMEI and or ESN were readily available to the candidate panelist such identifiers are lengthy and prone to entry error. Additionally in the event that a panelist obtains a different mobile device at a later date a telephone number of that panelist is likely to follow them on the subsequent e.g. new mobile device but the IMEI number will not. Thus it is advantageous to match the telephone number of the panelist to the panelist in the records of the monitoring entity e.g. the entity supplying the ODM and or collecting the monitoring data .

In response to the example application identifying the telephone number of the mobile device e.g. by parsing the SMS message log by parsing the browser history log etc. the example mobile message generator generates an initialization message to be transmitted to the example ODM server . As used herein the initialization message may include an initialization SMS message an e mail an HTTP request and or an initialization URI. For example in response to the mobile message generator sending an initialization message e.g. an SMS text message if the ODM application does not receive acknowledgment from the ODM server manager within a threshold period of time then the initialization message is deemed lost and or otherwise unsuccessful. As such the example mobile URI generator may make one or more additional attempts to send an initialization message e.g. by sending a URI via e mail or HTTP which provides an indication of transmission success . The initialization message may include a text message to the ODM server which includes the unique panelist identifier and or the identified telephone number of the mobile device as part of the text. However even if the example mobile message generator did not include a text message tailored to include the identified telephone number the example ODM server could upon receiving the initialization SMS message from the mobile device identify the mobile telephone number via for example caller ID information resolved by the wireless infrastructure based on the IME number of the sending mobile device . As described above even if the application does not have privileged access to or if the mobile device itself does not contain cannot access and or does not otherwise know its own mobile telephone number the wireless infrastructure may use the IMEI number or other identifier to determine a corresponding wireless telephone number that is associated with the mobile device . In some examples the wireless infrastructure may employ a lookup table to reconcile IMEI numbers with corresponding mobile telephone numbers. When such initialization SMS messages reach the ODM server they may be accompanied by the wireless telephone number of the sending mobile device .

In operation upon receipt of the initialization message the received telephone number information and the received unique panelist identifier are compared with the telephone number entered by the candidate panelist via the registration server and the unique panelist identifier generated by the ID generator . As described above the example ID generator generates the unique panelist identifier after the candidate panelist enters and or otherwise provides adequate demographics information and agrees to the membership and or privacy agreement s . If the corresponding information matches then the sender of the initialization message is deemed to be authorized to use the ODM application . Additionally matching information serves as confirmation that the sender user is the same user that agreed to the privacy terms of service and or membership agreement s .

However in other circumstances an individual that has not provided personal and or demographics information may obtain access to the ODM application and or the ODM SMS invitation. Such unauthorized access may occur when an authorized user i.e. a candidate panelist that has provided personal and or demographic information and agreed to the membership terms of service and or privacy agreement s shares their SMS message and or e mail invitation with someone else. In such circumstances the ODM application is not authorized to execute on the mobile device of the unauthorized individual as described in further detail below. On the other hand the unauthorized user may be provided with an invitation to access an on line website e.g. via the registration server in response to a failed match.

For circumstances in which transmission and or reception of SMS messages is not reliable and or deemed trustworthy the example mobile URI generator may generate an initialization HTTP request addressed to an initialization URI. The initialization request may include embedded information indicative of the identified telephone number of the mobile device and or the unique panelist identifier associated with the panelist. Rather than sending an initialization message via an SMS message the example mobile message generator may navigate to the address provided by the example mobile URI generator using a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . At least one benefit of employing HTTP or a secure version HTTPS rather than sending an initialization message via an SMS message is that HTTP includes handshaking. In other words when an SMS message is transmitted no feedback occurs to indicate success of the sender. However HTTP requests invoke a corresponding response that may include information related to completion.

In response to receipt of the initialization message either via the initialization SMS message or e mail or an HTTP request the example ODM server manager determines whether the received telephone number matches the correct unique panelist identifier both of which were transmitted in the initialization message. If a candidate panelist enters an incorrect phone number via the registration server or if the candidate panelist shares the installation message with someone else e.g. a third party then the user attempting to use the installed application is not authorized to do so and or has not agreed to the privacy terms of service and or membership agreement s . For example if the candidate panelist provides demographic information and the phone mobile number 414 542 6609 in an effort to qualify as a panelist e.g. in response to one or more participation incentives the example ID generator generates a unique panelist identifier to associate with the provided mobile phone number i.e. 414 542 6609 resulting in a matched candidate identification pair.

The first matched candidate identification pair is stored by the ODM server for later comparison. After the mobile device receives the installation message including the first matched candidate identification pair from the ODM server the mobile device extracts the identification pair from the installation message and stores the telephone number in a memory of the mobile device . During data collection the ODM application associates the collected data with the extracted phone number before sending the collected data back to the ODM server. To provide the ODM server with an indication that the installation message was successfully received the ODM application forwards the extracted identification pair back to the ODM server .

In many cases the extracted telephone number correctly identifies the mobile device that is associated with the candidate panelist that previously provided the demographic information e.g. via a webpage facilitated by the example registration server and corresponds to the same candidate panelist that agreed to the terms of service membership agreement and or privacy agreement s . On the other hand in the event that the candidate panelist forwarded their installation message e.g. installation SMS message installation e mail message etc. to an alternate user e.g. a friend a family member etc. then the ODM application should not be allowed to operate on the mobile device associated with the alternate user. For example if the candidate panelist shares the installation message with the alternate user then the alternate user also receives the embedded telephone number and unique panelist identifier associated with the candidate panelist. To verify that the telephone number in the installation message matches the mobile device the ODM application sends the extracted telephone number and unique panelist identifier to the ODM server via the wireless infrastructure . The ODM server compares the received telephone number from the installation message with the telephone number derived from caller ID information provided by the wireless infrastructure . If the telephone numbers match then the candidate panelist is deemed to be correctly associated with the mobile device and has successfully installed the ODM application . An activation message is then forwarded from the ODM server to the telephone number associated with the candidate panelist to for example unlock the ODM application and or permit full functionality of the ODM application . However if the telephone numbers do not match then the ODM server identifies an indication of candidate panelist mismatch which may be due to data entry error s or sharing of the installation message. In such circumstances the ODM server does not send an activation message but rather sends an SMS message to the telephone number associated with the caller ID information which includes an invitation to the user to visit an ODM registration website e.g. via the registration server and participate in market research.

In some circumstances the example ODM server may not need to rely upon caller ID information provided by the example wireless infrastructure to verify that the telephone number in the installation message matches the mobile device. Consider an example where the alternate user receives the installation message from the candidate user the alternate user downloads the ODM application which parses the installation message to extract the telephone number embedded therein. Furthermore after the example ODM application parses the installation message and extracts the telephone number embedded therein the ODM application sends the extracted telephone number to the ODM server to confirm that the installation has occurred. Instead of employing caller ID information associated with the sender of the extracted telephone number that is received from the wireless infrastructure the ODM server transmits an authorization message to the extracted telephone number. If the original installation message was shared by the candidate panelist with an alternate user then the authorization message sent by the ODM server is received by a different wireless device i.e. the wireless device associated with the proper candidate panelist which does not have the ODM application installed thereon. As a result the authorization message sent by the ODM server will not be acknowledged. In some examples if the acknowledgement message is not received within a threshold period of time the ODM server will consider the candidate panelist as invalid and or contact the candidate panelist via e mail to communicate the failure. The failure e mail may also include instructions to assist the candidate panelist with ODM application set up and or data entry checking.

After subsequent installation of the example application on the mobile device the application determines whether to transmit the initialization message as an initialization SMS an initialization e mail or an initialization HTTP request. In some examples the application reviews an SMS log of the mobile device for the received installation SMS message extracts the phone number included with the installation SMS message and sends back an initialization SMS message to the wireless network having the extracted telephone number embedded therein. The initialization SMS message is forwarded from the wireless network to the ODM server . The ODM server confirms registration of the panelist and corresponding mobile device .

As described above the example ODM server and or example application operating on the mobile device may employ HTTP or HTTPS rather than register the panelist and mobile device via SMS messages. While the illustrated example of illustrates that the installation message occurs via an installation SMS message the ODM server may without limitation send the installation message via HTTP and or an e mail message having the installation URI embedded therein. In other examples illustrated by the break in the application reviews the SMS log of the mobile device for the received installation SMS message extracts the phone number included with embedded in the installation SMS message and generates an initialization HTTP request . The initialization request is forwarded to the example wireless network which routes the request to the ODM server to complete registration .

In operation the candidate panelist provides information to the ODM server via for example the registration server . The provided information may include demographic information and a telephone number associated with Device A . After providing a sufficient amount of information and a corresponding wireless device telephone number the ID generator of the ODM server generates a unique panelist identifier for the candidate panelist . The candidate panelist will be promoted to a confirmed panelist if sufficient demographic information is provided and the ODM application is successfully installed and associated with Device A .

The example ODM server of sends an installation message e.g. an SMS message an e mail message containing a custom URI etc. embedded with the telephone number provided by the candidate panelist and the unique panelist identifier . The combined telephone number and unique panelist identifier sent by the ODM server are referred to herein as a first ID pair . Upon receipt of the installation message an affirmative indication from the candidate panelist causes the ODM application to be downloaded and installed . After installation the ODM application parses the received installation message which may have been stored by Device A in an SMS message log or an e mail message . The installation message parsing extracts the telephone number and unique panelist identifier embedded within the installation message and the ODM application causes the extracted information to be stored on a memory of Device A . The extracted information is further sent back to the ODM server as a second ID pair .

The example ODM server compares the first ID pair with the second ID pair to confirm whether they are the same or different . If the first and second ID pair are the same then the example ODM server sends an authorization message using the extracted telephone number . When Device A receives the authorization message the ODM application becomes fully enabled to operate as an on device meter and send collected data back to the ODM server . To allow the ODM server to learn that the ODM application has been successfully enabled to operate as an on device meter the ODM application sends an acknowledgement message to the ODM server . Upon receipt of the acknowledgement message the example ODM server promotes the candidate panelist to a confirmed panelist .

On the other hand the lower portion of shows an alternative example where the candidate panelist provided the installation message to one or more alternate user s e.g. interested friends family members etc. . In such circumstances apparatus methods and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein identify that such alternate user s are not authorized to use the ODM application on their device s . For example if the installation message is shared after it is sent to Device A see point then the messages of example operate as described above until the ODM server sends the authorization message using the extracted telephone number . In that case Device B which has a telephone number different than the telephone number embedded in the installation message never receives the authorization message . Instead Device A which responds to the telephone number extracted from the installation message receives an SMS message or e mail message with the authorization message. However because Device A does not have the ODM application installed Device A does not process the authorization message and the ODM server identifies a timeout period in which no acknowledgement message is received . The candidate panelist may be notified of the failure via an e mail message from the ODM server . Additionally the example ODM server may identify the installation message as being compromised.

On the other hand although the alternate user associated with Device B is not a candidate panelist and has thus not provided demographic information and a telephone number associated with Device B the attempt to install and or use the ODM application suggests a willingness to participate as a panelist. The methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein take advantage of the opportunity to obtain another panelist by in part sending the alternate user an invitation to become a candidate user. In response to a failure to receive an acknowledgement from an authorization message the ODM server obtains caller ID information associated with receipt of the initialization message . If available caller ID information illustrates a telephone number different from the extracted telephone number in the initialization message then the ODM server forwards an invitation message to the different number. The invitation may for example direct the recipient to the website facilitated by the example registration server thereby allowing the alternate user to provide sufficient demographics information and a telephone number associated with their wireless device to be used in on device metering market activity.

While an example manner of implementing the system to facilitate registering a mobile device has been illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example ODM server the example registration server the example server side manager the example ID generator the example server URI generator the example server SMS generator the example e mail generator the example application the example installation message parser the example browser manager the example mobile message generator and or the example mobile URI generator of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example ODM server the example registration server the example server side manager the example ID generator the example server URI generator the example server SMS generator the example e mail generator the example installation message parser the example browser manager the example mobile message generator and or the example mobile URI generator of could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the apparatus claims of the patent are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example ODM server the example registration server the example server side manager the example ID generator the example server URI generator the example server SMS generator the example e mail generator the example application the example installation message parser the example browser manager the example mobile message generator and or the example mobile URI generator of are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example system of may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the system of and or the example message diagrams of are shown in . In these examples the machine readable instructions comprise a program for execution by a processor such as the processor P shown in the example computer P discussed below in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD or a memory associated with the processor P but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor P and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program is described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in many other methods of implementing the example system may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage and to exclude propagating signals. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable medium and to exclude propagating signals.

The program of begins at block where the example registration server of the ODM server receives demographics and or personal information from candidate panelists. Demographics information may include but is not limited to race national origin household address household income personal income age gender marital status and or number of children. Additionally personal information may include a name preferred sports hobbies number and or type s of computers preferred media genres wireless device telephone number etc. The example registration server may facilitate one or more web pages having forms that allow the candidate panelist to enter personal and or demographic information. After the candidate panelist completes entering the personal and or demographic information the example ID generator generates a unique identification number e.g. a numeric or alpha numeric value to associate with the candidate panelist block . As described in further detail below the example server side registration manager may look for a return of the unique identification number and the telephone number of the mobile device to confirm registration was successful.

The example server side registration manager invokes the server SMS generator or the server URI generator to generate an installation message block . As described above example methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture described herein may employ SMS messaging techniques e mail techniques and or HTTP techniques and or any other communication protocols when communicating between the ODM server and the mobile device . When the installation message is generated block the example SMS generator or the example server URI generator include the mobile telephone number provided by the candidate panelist the unique identification number generated by the example ID generator and a URI to allow the candidate panelist to download and install the example application . The URI may be further tailored as a custom URI having the application download source location the unique identification number and the telephone number embedded therein as a string block . For example the example server URI generator may generate the following example string http odm.companyxyz.com enroll GetApp pn 4142825176 id 98787253 in which the embedded phone number is preceded by pn and the embedded identification number is preceded by id . 

The installation message is sent by the example ODM server as an SMS message using the telephone number and or as an e mail message using an e mail address block . The example ODM server monitors for an indication that the candidate panelist has installed the example application on the mobile device block and if not the ODM server determines whether a timeout period has expired block . A timeout period may be set for any amount such as a number of minutes hours days weeks or months. In some examples the installation message sent by the example ODM server includes an indication of how long the candidate panelist may wait before the invitation to register expires. For example the ODM server may include the language Please click on this link to install the metering application within one week. http odm.companyxyz.com enroll GetApp pn 4142825176 id 98787253 If the example timeout period has not expired block control returns to block to continue to wait otherwise the example ODM server deems that the candidate panelist is not willing to participate and further attempts end.

On the other hand if an indication of initialization is received block the example server side registration manager determines whether the indication of initialization includes the telephone number and the unique identification number associated with the candidate panelist block . If not then the attempt to register the candidate panelist and their corresponding mobile device was not successful and the process ends. However if a match occurs then an authorization message is sent to the telephone number from the initialization message to fully enable the ODM application to function as an on device meter block . The ODM server manager waits for an acknowledgement message from the mobile device block .

In the event that the ODM server manager does not receive the acknowledgement message e.g. after a threshold period of time block then the ODM server manager considers the candidate panelist profile information e.g. demographic information invalid and sends an e mail message to the candidate panelist regarding the failure to associate their mobile device with the ODM server block . The e mail message may allow for example the candidate panelist to re attempt efforts to participate as an on device metering panelist in case the failure was not due to a lack of interest. However in the event that the failure is caused by an alternate user attempting to use the ODM application without having first provided sufficient demographics information then the example ODM server manager determines whether caller ID information is available block . If not the example program ends otherwise the ODM server manager determines whether the caller ID information and the telephone number from the initialization message match block . If so then the example program ends otherwise an invitation to participate in on device metering is sent to the telephone number associated with the caller ID information block .

The program of begins at block where the example mobile device monitors for receipt of the installation message. If it is not received then the example program continues to wait otherwise the example mobile device installs the example application block after the installation message is received and the candidate panelist clicks on a corresponding URI embedded within the installation message. As described above the installation message may be received by the example mobile device as an SMS message or as an e mail message. In either case the received installation message includes the telephone number of the mobile device and a unique identification number associated with the candidate panelist and the mobile device both of which were sent by the example ODM server .

The example application invokes the example installation message parser to parse out the telephone number and unique identification number embedded within the received installation message block . In some examples the installation message parser obtains the received installation message from an SMS log of the mobile device and parses the received SMS messages for the telephone number and unique identification number block . In other examples the installation message parser invokes the browser manager to search a browsing history of the mobile device which reveals the custom URI that was embedded within the installation message. For example if the user received the custom URI via an SMS message or an e mail message the candidate panelist act of clicking on the URI causes a browser of the mobile device to navigate to the download location for the application . Accordingly the example installation message parser may parse the custom URI in the browsing history for characters indicative of a phone number e.g. pn and or characters indicative of a unique identification number e.g. id .

While the operating system and or API of the mobile device may not permit access to the phone number of the mobile device because the application extracts such information from the received installation message the application has the ability to store the telephone number in a memory. Typically the operating system and or API of the mobile device provides access to some memory which can be accessed when the application operates on the mobile device . Accordingly because the application now has the phone number of the mobile device in an accessible memory subsequent metering data collected by the example application can be sent to the ODM server in connection with the telephone number to identify the mobile device and its corresponding panelist.

To provide the example ODM server with an indication that the application is successfully installed and operating the example mobile message generator invokes the mobile URI generator to generate a custom SMS or a custom URI directed to the ODM server block . In the event that the indication occurs via SMS messaging the example mobile message generator generates an SMS message directed to a phone number associated with the ODM server and generates text having the phone number of the mobile device and the unique identification number. In the event that the indication occurs via HTTP the example mobile message generator invokes the mobile URI generator to generate a custom URI directed to an HTTP address of the ODM server and embeds the phone number of the mobile device and the unique identification number therein. Regardless of whether the indication occurs via SMS messaging or HTTP the example application sends the indication to the ODM server to associate the mobile device with the candidate panelist the initialization message block .

The ODM application has limited functionality after it is initially installed on the example mobile device . For example the ODM application may be initially limited to functions associated with identifying the telephone number of the mobile device but functions associated with on device metering activities e.g. audio recording GPS data sampling device activity recording etc. may be disabled until the candidate panelist is confirmed to have correctly installed the ODM application on the correct mobile device . To that end the example ODM application monitors for an authorization message from the ODM server in response to sending the initialization message block . If a threshold time to wait for the authorization message has not expired block then control returns to block otherwise the example program ends. A failure to receive the authorization message may be due to for example a lack of interest in the candidate panelist to participate or a circumstance in which the installation message of the candidate panelist was shared and or otherwise provided to an alternate user that has not provided sufficient demographics information and or agreed to the terms of service agreement s . On the other hand if the example ODM application receives the authorization message from the ODM server before the threshold expires block then the ODM application fully enables itself to perform on device metering e.g. by permitting full access to on board sensors of the mobile device such as but not limited to microphones global positioning satellite sensors compass sensors accelerometers etc. and forwards an acknowledgement message to the ODM server block . In other words the ODM application is conditionally enabled in response to receiving the authorization message.

In still further circumstances a user will download the ODM application from a hosted application repository e.g. Android Market Apple AppStore iTunes etc. a website and or other location. Some users that install the ODM application may be existing users such as confirmed panelists that have a new mobile device confirmed panelists that have a replacement mobile device after losing a previous mobile device and or confirmed panelists that have intentionally or inadvertently uninstalled a fully enabled ODM application . Other users that install the ODM application may be new users that are interested in participating in on device metering activities e.g. in response to promotions incentives curiosity etc. . The example methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein identify circumstances of returning confirmed panelists and new users e.g. candidate panelists that have installed the example ODM application .

The program of begins at block where the example ODM application is selected e.g. from the Android Market downloaded to the mobile device and installed. As described above the example ODM application is initially installed with limited e.g. partial functionality until it can be confirmed that the candidate panelist has provided sufficient demographic information agreed to the membership agreement the terms of service agreement and or the privacy agreement and the correct mobile device associated with the candidate panelist is confirmed. Partial functionality may include but is not limited to disabled access to one or more sensors of the example mobile device . Sensors may include but are not limited to global positioning satellite sensors microphones light sensors compass and or magnetic sensors and or accelerometers. The example ODM application prompts the new user to confirm whether they are a new user or an existing user block such as by way of a button press and or user interface input on a touch sensitive display of the example mobile device . If the user indicates e.g. via user interface selection that they are a new user then the example ODM application prompts the new user to visit the data entry website e.g. a website hosted by the example registration server to begin association of user demographics information with the ODM application and associated mobile device block .

If the user indicates that they are an existing user block then the example ODM application searches for a previously received installation message block . If the previously received installation message is found block control advances to block of . However if a substantial amount of time has elapsed a previously received installation message was erased e.g. an SMS message log was cleared or if an installation message was not previously received by the example mobile device then the example ODM application sends a recovery request message to the example ODM server block . The example ODM application determines whether a corresponding installation message is received block and if not determines whether a time out period e.g. a threshold duration of time to wait for the installation message has occurred and or whether the ODM server returns an indication of no matching user profile block . In the event of a time out and or indication of no user match block the ODM application prompts the new user to visit the data entry website e.g. a website hosted by the example registration server to begin association of user demographics information with the ODM application and associated mobile device block . On the other hand if the example ODM application receives the installation message from the ODM server block then control advances to block of .

The program of begins at block where the example ODM server monitors for an indication of the recovery request message. Upon receiving an indication of the recovery request message block the example ODM server searches the profile database for a telephone number associated with caller ID information received with the recovery request message block . For example in the event that the user installing the ODM application was previously a confirmed panelist then their profile information e.g. demographic information phone number associated with their mobile device etc. will be stored in the profile database of the ODM server . In the event a match is not found block then an message indicative of a non match is forwarded to the telephone number associated with caller ID information block which causes the ODM application to prompt the user to visit a data entry website for candidate panelist data entry. On the other hand in the event a match is found block then the ODM server sends an installation message to the telephone number associated with the received caller ID information block and control advances to block of .

The system P of the instant example includes a processor P. For example the processor P can be implemented by one or more Intel microprocessors. Of course other processors from other families are also appropriate.

The processor P is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory P and a non volatile memory P via a bus P. The volatile memory P may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory P may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory P P is typically controlled by a memory controller.

The computer P also includes an interface circuit P. The interface circuit P may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

One or more input devices P are connected to the interface circuit P. The input device s P permit a user to enter data and commands into the processor P. The input device s can be implemented by for example a keyboard a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more output devices P are also connected to the interface circuit P. The output devices P can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a liquid crystal display and or a cathode ray tube display CRT . The interface circuit P thus typically includes a graphics driver card.

The interface circuit P also includes a communication device such as a modem or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external computers via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The computer P also includes one or more mass storage devices P for storing software and data. Examples of such mass storage devices P include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives and digital versatile disk DVD drives.

The coded instructions of may be stored in the mass storage device P in the volatile memory P in the non volatile memory P and or on a removable storage medium such as a CD or DVD.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that disclosed methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture allow a mobile device to determine its own phone number which is information readily available to a candidate panelist when providing personal and demographic information via a web site hosted by a metering organization. While other unique identification numbers of the mobile device may be available such as the IMEI number or an ESN such identification numbers are cumbersome to obtain manually from the candidate panelist and do not follow the panelist in the event a new and or alternate mobile device is obtained at a later time.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

