---

title: Redemption system for mobile device
abstract: A redemption system for a mobile device includes a database module for determining a target customer. A streaming module is connected to the database module for serving content to the target customer. A priority module is connected to the streaming module for implementing a content delivery schedule. The streaming module serves first content data to the target customer. If the target customer affirmatively responds to the first content data, the priority module causes the system to send a redemption mechanism embedded in second content data to the target customer. The redemption mechanism enables the target customer to engage in a redemption activity using the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849258&OS=08849258&RS=08849258
owner: 
number: 08849258
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20130321
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 11 622 110 entitled REDEMPTION SYSTEM FOR MOBILE DEVICE filed Jan. 11 2007 and published Jul. 17 2008 as U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008 0172285 A1 and which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates in general to mobile devices and systems and more particularly to an apparatus system and method of organizing delivering and receiving advertising promotional material and other information to from a targeted mobile device.

Mobile devices such as cellular phones personal desktop assistant PDA devices Blackberry devices and portable computing devices including notebooks notepads and touchpads have become commonplace in today s society. It is not uncommon for a person to have at least a single mobile device accompanying the person at all times. Increasingly persons are reliant on mobile devices for communication information and entertainment.

Cellular phones have traditionally been used to send and receive voice information first in analog form then in digital form. However with increasing bandwidth technology and processing power as mobile devices have become increasingly technologically sophisticated cellular phones are becoming capable of handling additional data and other information transferring capabilities. In addition functionality that was once regulated to fixed desktop computers is becoming commonplace in mobile devices and is seen more commonly in cellular phone type devices.

At the same time that customers are looking to mobile devices for additional functionality and flexibility vendors marketers and other individuals are looking to provide the additional functionality and flexibility to the customer.

As of yet developers have not taken complete advantage of the technology afforded to developers as incorporated into today s mobile devices. Persons who own mobile devices clearly make the devices unique to the person. The mobile device belongs to that person and often incorporates the person s personality traits for example in the choice of the person s ring tone. Vendors marketers and others have not as of yet taken full advantage of the individuality that mobile devices exhibit.

In light of the foregoing a need exists for a system and method of creating organizing delivering and receiving targeted information to from a mobile device to take full advantage of the individuality of a mobile device.

In one embodiment the present invention is a redemption system for a mobile device comprising a database module for determining a target customer a streaming module connected to the database module for serving content to the target customer and a priority module connected to the streaming module for implementing a content delivery schedule wherein the streaming module serves first content data to the target customer whereupon if the target customer affirmatively responds to the first content data the priority module causes the system to send a redemption mechanism embedded in second content data to the target customer the redemption mechanism enabling the target customer to engage in a redemption activity using the mobile device.

In another embodiment the present invention is a method for redeeming an incentive using a mobile device using a data management system comprising determining geographical information of a particular customer aggregating the geographical information by the data management system matching the geographical information with user data identifying a target customer based on the geographical information matched with user data sending a content notification to the target customer and sending matched content to the target customer wherein a redemption mechanism is embedded in the matched content to allow the target customer to redeem the incentive using the mobile device.

In still another embodiment the present invention is a computer program product usable with a programmable computer processor having a computer readable program code embodied therein comprising computer readable program code which determines geographical information of a particular customer computer readable program code which aggregates the geographical information by the data management system computer readable program code which matches the geographical information with user data computer readable program code which identifies a target customer based on the geographical information matched with user data computer readable program code which sends a content notification to the target customer and computer readable program code which sends matched content to the target customer wherein a redemption mechanism is embedded in the matched content to allow the target customer to redeem the incentive using the mobile device.

In still yet another embodiment the present invention is a method of manufacturing a redemption system for a mobile device comprising providing a database module for determining a target customer providing a streaming module connected to the database module for serving content to the target customer and providing a priority module connected to the streaming module for implementing a content delivery schedule wherein the streaming module serves first content data to the target customer whereupon if the target customer affirmatively responds to the first content data the priority module causes the system to send a redemption mechanism embedded in second content data to the target customer the redemption mechanism enabling the target customer to engage in a redemption activity using the mobile device.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module can be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module can also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules can also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

Reference to a signal bearing medium may take any form capable of generating a signal causing a signal to be generated or causing execution of a program of machine readable instructions on a digital processing apparatus. A signal bearing medium may be embodied by a transmission line a compact disk digital video disk a magnetic tape a Bernoulli drive a magnetic disk a punch card flash memory integrated circuits or other digital processing apparatus memory device.

The schematic flow chart diagrams included are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Throughout this specification reference to the following terms is intended to refer to the following descriptions although the following terms are not intended to be limited solely by such descriptions. In the following paragraphs reference to a user is intended to refer to entities and persons who are seeking to deliver promotional content relating to a good or service such as vendors advertisers etc. including company employees and personnel. Reference to a customer is intended to refer to customers who utilize services provided through a mobile device such as subscribers to a cellular phone service etc. Reference to an audience is intended to refer to customers and or other individuals or groups who have and have been granted permission to receive content. Content is intended to refer to advertising marketing promotions entertainment dialogue polls or any other communication between users and customers.

Reference to a dashboard is intended to refer to a Web or other remote based interface for users which facilitates delivery of content to audiences. Reference to database s is intended to refer to combined hardware and or software designed to retain information submitted by or compiled through commercial means customers and then used to categorize score rank for example or otherwise group individuals. Further databases will be used to create deliver report and or analyze any content sent from system s to customers or other audiences.

Reference to device s is intended to describe hardware such as receivers transmitters data storage instruments Internet based applications etc. Reference to program s is intended to describe efforts by users either to draw a desired response from customers or simply deliver content to audiences and or customers. Reference to system s describes proprietary software and hardware used by consumers promoters entertainers and or advertisers.

 Target audience s is intended to refer to individuals and or groups of individuals who share similar attributes including but not limited to demographics lifestyles product interests intent to purchase specific categories of goods and or services etc. Finally reference to template identifies a pre defined design and or textual element used to embody a communication. Users can select from pre defined templates and customize the templates to the degree that satisfies their communication need.

System includes a user interface and a customer interface . User interface is electrically connected via a signal bearing medium to delivery system . Likewise customer interface is electrically connected via a signal bearing medium to delivery system . User interface and customer interface can include personal computer devices hand held devices PDA devices dumb terminals servers workstations or a host of other hardware software variations capable of including a graphical user interface GUI to interface between a person and a computer system.

A signal bearing medium electrically connects delivery system with a voice data network . The network can include local area networks LANs or wide area networks WANs . The network can include preexisting network infrastructures such as the world wide web. Network can include components intended to transmit data using optical signals such as a fiber optic network.

Network is electrically connected via a signal bearing medium to transceiver tower . Tower can include standard cellular phone towers having transmitting and receiving capabilities which are generally known in the art. Tower can use such generally known multiplexing technologies as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or Time Division Multiple Access TDMA . Tower can make use of generally known modulation technologies including a host of frequency shift keying FSK methodologies. Tower can be compliant with a Global Standard for Mobile Communications GSM protocol in a variety of generations.

Tower uses commonly known methods and technologies to transmit signal to a mobile device Mobile device also can be capable of broadcasting a signal to tower . Signal can include modulated and or multiplexed signals compliant with the technologies just described. Mobile device can include such devices such as cellular phones personal desktop assistant PDA devices Blackberry devices and portable computing devices including notebooks notepads and touchpads. Mobile device can include memory devices not shown such as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card or an equivalent. Mobile device can include memory devices having non volatile memory such as flash memory.

Satellite is shown positioned above mobile device . Satellite can transmit a TDMA signal that is compliant with a global positioning system GPS specification and received by mobile device . Mobile device can calculate a geographical location of the mobile device which is sent via signal to tower . The capabilities of mobile device will be described in additional detail following.

Turning to a block diagram of an example delivery system is depicted. Delivery system includes signal bearing mediums and as previously described which provide connections of various modules of system to various outside interfaces and networks. User interface is connected by medium to user module . Also inclusive in system are communications module gateway module streaming short message service SMS module priority module and database payment module . Each of the various modules can be interconnected via signal bearing mediums communications channels networks and the like.

User module provides a vehicle for users to organize and assemble content and other communications elements which is intended to be distributed to a customer. User module is intended to be accessed by authorized users of system . Once a user has gained authorization and access system components of content can be assembled when users make selections from existing communications elements graphics sounds text images etc. . Users are also able to upload user defined elements using module . The uploaded elements may be served or otherwise distributed to the customer as is or may be modified as allowed by the system . Modifications can include but are not limited to voice over announcer sound text such as business addresses phone numbers etc. or other modifications required by the user and allowed by the system .

User module is electrically connected to communications module . Communications module works in conjunction with user module to further customize content which is organized by a user. Communications module can merge data templated data uploaded files or other message components with customized user input to comprise a completed communication finished content . The communications module can be designed to accept uploads from outside feeds links static file uploads and the like . Communications module can include storage capabilities to store informational elements in an onboard database or elsewhere for use in final assembly. Examples of user supplied content can include existing commercials licensed images photographs sound tracks music scores voice over announcer files and other data.

Communications module can convert individual components or finished content to usable streaming format. Module again can store finished content for future use distribution analysis etc. Module can be adapted for dynamic content building. In other words the module can assemble content based on individual target audience member attributes music preference ethnicity past purchase behavior etc. . Examples of target audience based content include modification of background music for an advertisement based upon genre preference or substituting a voice over in Spanish versus English if language preference is Spanish or a color of car featured in content based on past color selection of last auto purchased.

Module as well as module can also be configured to drive logic for virtual short message service SMS conversations. If a customer responds a certain way to an SMS notification of content pending they may be responded to with a version of additional SMS content and so on. The concept of virtual SMS communication over system will be further described.

Module can include an ability to assemble content using multiple users advertisers for example . In some cases content can be delivered that features multiple products services brands etc. In cases where the content of multiple users is assembled module can include prompts within the content which offers customers the opportunity to link to additional information or choose to purchase now. Module can link to other system components required for data feeds response tracking and other functions.

User module is also seen electrically connected to a database payment module . Database payment module can include an onboard interface which serves as a primary system interface for Customers. The onboard interface can work in conjunction with an initial customer interface infrastructure. Module can include a public access region which is accessible by customers using a variety of methods such as the world wide web WWW . For example a customer can use the WWW to access and update the system through module .

Module can host forms used to collect data from customers. The data may be entered directly by customers or may be entered by company personnel. A customer may authorize a third party to enter respective data which is collected by module . Module can contain a repository of all data collected from and or derived about customers.

Module can be configured to create a relationship between individual data elements or groups of data elements for the purpose of target audience definition program planning post program analysis etc. The creation of relationships according to individual data elements can proceed in a manner which is generally known in the art using traditional database architectures.

Module can include a fast count engine having the capability to tabulate records based on conditional queries. Module can assign a target audience tag or identifier to records to be used in a compiled target audience. This tag becomes a relational key to match content to the intended target audience. Module can offer customers the choice of preventing future messages or delivery of content from specific users retailers brands etc. . In the case of a customer who chooses to block future content from a specific user the customer can be tagged as ineligible for messages from the respective users.

Module can through links from various related modules in system allow customers to forward content of interest to other selected customers members or groups of members provided that other selected customers allow such transactions.

Through the module customers are able to build profiles of others for certain purposes. For example a customer may want to receive content appropriate for another person customer or non customer . In this case module can submit the customer into a target audience for the type of content appropriate for the profiled third party. This may be useful when shopping for gifts for friends family business associates and so on.

Module can contain a gift registry and authorize other customers the opportunity to check for such a gift registry for gift ideas.

Customers can be authorized to utilize module to request more content in a specific area of interest. For example if a customer is actively seeking a new automobile they may request content related to cars. Such a request would usurp typical system restrictions of frequency of content to that customer.

Returning to communications is shown connected to gateway module . Gateway module performs authentication functions to validate customer input on system . The gateway module for example can receive customer PIN entries from the target audience members to verify the customer s acceptance of the pending content.

Module can be adapted to authenticate customer acceptance and then communicate with other system modules such as the streaming module to issue content to the customer. The gateway module can output data to various other modules in system . Module can indicate to other system modules that the customer has requested delivery of respective content. Module can validate data transmissions to prevent unauthorized access to the system .

Communications module in example system is shown connected to priority module . Priority module can link with database payment module of system to verify that a user has fulfilled payment requirements. Based on system requirements scheduling load customer preferences and confirmation of payment module can schedule the delivery of the content to the target audience and thereby to a targeted customer in the target audience.

Module can be configured to submit data to the streaming SMS module which in turn can submit messages to the customer device mobile phone via medium over network to alert the target audience member that content is waiting to be delivered for viewing. As such module can submit SMS content data to SMS module for delivery to the customer. In addition to submitting SMS content data module can also submit streaming content data or similar content data to the module for delivery to the customer.

Module can receive input from database payment module . The input can include such information as a customer s response to a previous communication and can in turn cue subsequent sequential communications based on criteria defined in a particular variation or implementation of system .

Streaming SMS module can receive content data from priority module . The streaming SMS module can receive authorization from the gateway module which indicates that a customer target audience member has granted permission to the system to deliver the content to a mobile device or elsewhere. Streaming SMS module then processes the data the basic elements of the content for delivery to the customer target audience member via the gateway module .

Streaming SMS module can be configured to deliver dynamic voice call linkage preceding after or during content delivery for the purpose of placing a voice call to a user s customer service department the nearest retailer etc.

After becoming authorized users can access the user module login to access the database payment module . Once recognized by the user module users can enter required data such as product service category retail location data program geography promotional values discounts for example etc. The user module can allow users to select again via the database payment module from an array of data attributes to help define target audience parameters such as gender age location brand preference intent to purchase a specific good and or service etc.

User module can facilitate system access necessary for content build target audience definition payment and other operational needs. User module can interface with the database payment module and communications module . User module can interact with the database payment module or other related modules for program reporting and analysis.

User module can repeatedly interface with the database payment module possibly multiple times per program based on the billing options selected in the setup of the program. An example of such repeated access includes performance based payments higher charges for positive response . User module can employ locator technology GPS tower triangulation etc. to determine nearest user outlet retail location to customers. Module can therefore store data for the user s retail and or distribution base.

The various functionality of each of modules and will be discussed in more detail following. In addition examples which describe the various interactions between the modules constituting system and the overall delivery system will be further discussed.

Turning to a block diagram of database payment module is seen in greater detail including an example set of subcomponents which make up module . Database payment module contains an organized collection of data. Module can be organized according to a variety of models such as a flat hierarchical network or relational. Module can incorporate such standards as structured query language SQL or similar standards known in the art. The various database platforms which can constitute module can utilize software database drivers having application programming interfaces APIs examples of which include Java database connectivity JDBC . The APIs can function to retrieve information stored in module or any of the various subcomponents of module .

Module is shown having various subcomponent databases. Module can include additional databases or utilize organizational structures as needed to satisfy a particular application. User database is shown having a connectivity to user module . User database can function to organize store and retrieve data related to users such as identification information associated with a particular registered user. A new user can utilize an example user interface to access user module and register user information which is stored in user database . In addition user database can include a host of transactional information which has been stored from previous exchanges with customers to deliver content. The transactional information can be used to provide statistical analysis for future content delivery.

User database is shown connected to customer database . Like user database customer database can be utilized to organize store and retrieve data related to customers such as identification information associated with a particular registered customer. A new customer can utilize an example customer interface to register as a new customer on system . The new customer can provide identification information such as name age and preferences information. The information can be moved through system to customer database and stored on database .

Media database is shown connected between user database and payment database while also sharing an outside connection from to streaming SMS module . Media database can be used to organize store and retrieve content information which is organized by a user of system and delivered to a customer. Content information can include SMS messages voice video audio or a combination of the foregoing.

Media database is shown connected to payment database which can function to organize store and retrieve customer and or user payment information. Payment database can keep payment information such as credit card information of a particular customer on file so as to enable a quick transaction between customer and user customer and system and or user and system .

Payment database is shown connected to schedule database . Communications module can work closely with schedule database located as part of database module communications module or elsewhere to schedule delivery of content through network to a customer . Schedule database can contain information pertaining to timing of delivery of content. Schedule database for example can include timeline information which specifies which content is delivered at a certain time or in response to certain parameters or in response to a customer or user s input into system . Database is shown connected through module from to priority module .

Turning to a block diagram of streaming SMS module is seen in greater detail including an example set of subcomponents which make up module . Module includes signal bearing connecting module to voice data network . SMS aggregator is a module subcomponent which can be hosted as part of module or elsewhere. Aggregator can be an independent third party which is located as part of network to aggregate and deliver bulk SMS data over network . Alternatively system can host SMS aggregator to aggregate SMS messages in bulk for delivery through network to multiple customers.

Module includes media server . Media server can include a host of components which enable server to serve content through module and network to a customer. The components can be compatible with various computer communications and signal protocols to enable content to be served appropriately. For example media server can include subcomponents allowing the transfer of such standards as images compatible with JPEG or TIFF standards video compatible with Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG standards in any variation or generation etc.

Media server is connected to proxy server to allow clients users customers or system operators to make indirect network connections to other network services through module and throughout system . The client can connect to the proxy server through network or elsewhere then request a connection file or other content resource available on a different server or module. The proxy server can provide the resource either by connecting to the specified module or server or by serving it from cache. In some cases the proxy server can alter the client s request or the server s response for various purposes. Server can also act as a firewall for module or for other system subcomponents.

Various examples of operation of delivery system operating as part of overall system will now be described. A first example A describes an overall method to design and develop distribute and analyze customer and or target audience data over system . A user is first allowed to access company system s in order to compose content an advertisement or other communication and then distribute that message to a customer and or target audience individual or group s over network and elsewhere. As part of a next step to register a new user on system the prospective user first completes an application online form hardcopy via mail in in person facsimile or any other approved method to become an authorized user. The process of registering a new user can occur through a computer device with a network terminal operating as a user interface . Alternatively a system operator can enter and otherwise upload the registration information to various modules operating as part of system . User interface can have an associated graphical user interface GUI which assists the user in entering information into the computer device.

The user as a next step begins to compose a communication or select a communication from provided templates. The user customizes the communication with any relevant text images sounds vibrations or other modifications required to complete the content. The composition and customization of communication from templates can be performed using user module and database module operating on system .

As a next step the user moves into a Target Audience Definition area of the site where the user will specify the profile of the target audience intended to receive the content. The user can elect to have the system recommend a target audience based on input by the user and or company or the user can make selections from a list of data elements available for the purpose of selecting a target audience.

The user then submits the selections whereby the system will provide a count of prospective recipients based upon the profile within the system . Users can select all or a portion of the target audience. The user indicates the user s preference of the time period approximate or exact date the user wishes the communication to be delivered begin to be delivered to the target audience.

As a next step system including various subcomponents of system assesses based on preset rules members of the target audience to determine if the members are eligible to receive the particular content. The user pays for any fees and or other charges using a credit card or other approved method of payment.

System makes the content ready for distribution in accordance with preset requirements and other parameters . When content is in the delivery process target audience members receive notification via their registered device that content is waiting to be delivered. This notification can be sent as a communications signal through delivery system over signal bearing medium voice data network and signal bearing medium to tower where the signal is converted to radio frequency and broadcast to mobile device .

System as part of operating rules and parameters and at the discretion of system operators can elect to provide target audience members customers others the opportunity to opt out of certain types of content including but not limited to specific brands categories of products and or services etc. For example a customer may be dissatisfied with a current utility electric company and may wish to receive no further content from that company. Alternatively customers can request specific information regarding specific products brands etc. For example a customer may be in the market for a new car and electronically requests information and deals from local retailers.

As a next step the intended target audience of the content elects to accept or skip the message s by indicating a preference on the registered device . If content is to be accepted the target audience member authorizes delivery of content by entering a personal identification number PIN code on their registered device indicating that the member authorizes delivery of content. Such an authenticating step can be performed through gateway module operating on system .

System tracks the consumer s indication to record whether or not that target audience member elected to receive the content storing the customer s indication as part of database module or elsewhere in system . If the target audience member elects to receive the content the content is delivered to the device of the member. As a follow up step system distributes additional messages images or subsequent content based on the target audience member s response a digital coupon for example in accordance with the program definition and other predefined parameters.

System compiles response data and retains the data for future use by the system operators and or authorized users. System runs statistical reports conducts analysis or exports data in order to provide the users or future or potential users with analysis. System also generates reports to aid in program analysis and or recommendations to past current and prospective users for marketing planning. Such statistical analysis can be performed using database module user module or a combination of modules incorporated into system .

In addition to an authorization process for a user a customer also initiates his experience with system through an authorization process where the customer registers himself in system through the customer interface and with the use of database module or other system subcomponents. Customers and or target audience members can apply and register on system in a registration area which can be served to the customer via database module or similar. Again module can contain forms templates and other mechanisms to allow for a customer to enter information and thereby retain customer data. In many embodiments the registration area can appear on a local GUI customer interface by virtue of the registration area served over the internet from a remote host. In addition customers can complete hardcopy registration materials which can be mailed in phoned in or delivered in person. Customers can use a facsimile to provide information to a third party which enters the data into module at a later date.

During the registration process of a customer target audience members customers can complete a personal profile and can offer other information that allows the system to match the customer s interests stated or derived with content or other data and manage transactions purchases fees etc. . Potential target audience members customers can be required to indemnify users or to indemnify a third party regarding instances arising from use of a product which is promoted through various content over system .

The user can then customize the communication by adding pictures video sound vibrations and other enhancements step . For example a particular communication might promote the release of a new vehicle model. The communication can be augmented by pictures or video of the vehicle to display the profile of the new vehicle to customers or to showcase a particular feature such as a roomy back seat or a built in navigation system.

Assembling and augmenting content as described in steps and can be performed with the assistance of a marketing center which can be built into user module and or database module . The marketing center can consist of a series of web pages where users or the company that they represent can assemble content advertisements entertainment etc. prior to delivery to the customer or other target audience . Of course a company can reserve the right to approve or refuse content and may at the company s discretion design develop and implement a rating system that indicates the type and or nature of the communication. Such a mobile rating system will be described in further detail below.

Within the marketing center can reside a marketing dashboard which guides the user through content assembly target audience definition and delivery options. Users can select from supplied or suggested options or the users can enter information freely into the system for inclusion into the final content. The dashboard can also include tools for users to upload existing message components portions of content via the Internet or other electronic device or otherwise supply access and or purchase stock images text or other licensed elements for use in their finished content. The tools can include but are not limited to links to existing and or future web sites either owned by a company or owned by others as well as proprietary tools necessary to capture compile manipulate or otherwise make ready for final use in finished content.

Returning to once the user has finished customizing respective content for a particular communication the user moves to a target audience definition area of the system to specify a profile of the desired target audience step . Target audiences can be identified when users of the system select specific characteristics or attributes of an individual or group of individuals. For example an advertiser user can access system via the Internet over network . Once logged into a website of system for example the user can indicate that the user would like to deliver a commercial message to a target audience consisting of one or many intended recipients based on factors such as the factors which appear in the table shown by

Relevant factors can include age gender income housing physical address education level interests hobbies and the like. The table of factors shown in depicts an example list of factors. A user can select any or all of these factors to be taken into consideration when determining an appropriate target audience. The user can also specify additional factors which are specific to his or her business such as desired physical intensity of a workout. The user can incorporate as many or as few factors as desired. If the user desires to self select a target audience step the user then makes selections from a list of data elements step which again can include any of the example factors shown by

Throughout the design and development of content delivery and management of data that takes place in system a user and or customer can take advantage of built in features of system to perform work that a user or customer is not interested in performing or to help to better inform the user based on overall data accessible to system but not necessarily accessible to a particular user or customer. As such system can statistically determine probabilities based on past activities within the system and perform educated recommendations to users as to next steps. The educated recommendations can include suggestions of important design elements such as video picture or sound for a particular target audience group or even a suggestion of a sample target audience itself an Instant Audience service thereby electing to have a target audience prescribed for them by the system based on a particular product or application of the product. To perform statistical calculations to effect provide artificial intelligence to system and a user system can make use of any of the various modules of system such as database module .

Database module can execute instructions to perform statistical analysis of a particular user s past transaction histories or module can extrapolate statistical information from a collection of related users such as all car dealers which are authorized users of system . Even though system may have access to individual data records of users and customers system can include safeguards which ensure customer and user data privacy. Individual records for example may be safeguarded while a population of non private data can be used to extrapolate trends and for system to perform educated recommendations. Thus system can perform an educated recommendation to suggest or predict a recommended target audience step if a user does not desire to self select a target audience.

Target audience members may command different pricing to users wishing to reach the target audience members based on criteria such as response to previous programs or intent to purchase. System can establish pricing tiers or other pricing models for target audience members which are similarly situated. illustrates audience member categories established according to value in time such as dreaming to buy ready to buy and or planning to buy. System can implement separate pricing models based on the categories depicted in or establish additional categories of target audience members which can be based on user selections or established by system . System can provide a count of all prospective recipients of content based on a target audience profile which is elected or confirmed by a user. The target audience profile can fall within one of the example value in time categories for pricing. Alternatively system can price content delivery by volume taking into account a total number of prospective recipient customers and appropriately discounting when higher customer volume is concerned.

Returning to once an appropriate target audience membership of customers is selected or confirmed by a user the user can indicate a preference of time period an approximate or exact date and or time that the user wishes the communication to commence to a customer step . System then assesses each member of a prospective target audience to determine if the member is eligible to receive content step . The assessment step can take into account certain operational or transactional rules which are put into place by system . The operational rules can reflect customer preferences to opt out as previously described privacy policies established by system or by law or a variety of other constraints. Once the system has completed the assessment step it is ready to calculate a fee which includes all of the considerations previously described. The user then pays the calculated fees step to begin the content distribution process. The fees can be paid via credit card or another system approved method of payment.

Once system confirms payment for the services system then takes steps to prepare the content for delivery in accordance with any system policy step . The content delivery process will be outlined in greater detail following. As part of the content delivery process system informs target audience members customers through a notification process that the members have content which is available to be transmitted. The content is delivered through system over network eventually reaching a registered device . The notification process will also be described later in greater detail.

Again system can elect to provide target audience members with an opportunity to opt out of certain types of content A respective member can make an opt out choice step resulting in system providing an opt out mechanism to the member. The opt out choice and mechanism can also be located as a preparatory step to selecting target audience membership by a user and found earlier along method . Further system can make a decision as to which members are provided the opt out choice based on a variety of factors.

When a member customer receives notification from system that content is waiting to be delivered the member customer then has a choice as to whether the member customer will elect to accept the content step . If the member customer elects to receive the content in one embodiment the member customer can authorize delivery by entering a personal identification number PIN into the device thereupon content is delivered to the device step . If a member customer does not wish to accept the content the content is not delivered step . A mechanism such as PIN authorization allows system to confirm that an authorized customer on an authorized or registered device is viewing particular content. The PIN mechanism allows for privacy concerns to be maintained by system . In addition sensitive content such as adult content can be safeguarded. Finally users can be assured through an authorization system that the content that the user created was indeed delivered to a targeted individual the very person that the user desires to deliver the content. The ability to deliver content in such a targeted manner adds significant value to the content and provides a significant return to the user designing and developing the content.

Whether a member customer elected to receive the content and received the content or the member customer did not elect to receive the content and did not receive the content is recorded in system for analysis step . Such information can be retained in database module in any of the various databases associated with module and can be used to make educated recommendations formulate trends or perhaps determine future pricing for particular content over system .

The delivery of content to a particular member customer is given additional value by the delivery of additional content which can be based on a member customer s responses to initial content. Based on a customer s response system can deliver additional content. The delivery of additional content can make system in conjunction with overall system a powerful tool for users. For example a particular customer can be targeted by system because they are in a particular age demographic and like slasher type movies. A new release of a DVD movie in a fitting horror genre may be upcoming or already taking place. System can deliver the notification that a well known vendor of movies has content they wish to deliver to the customer. The targeted customer recognizing the name of the well known vendor and based on past transactions with the vendor can accept the delivery of content. The content includes a video clip preview of the movie. At the end of the preview the content may query the targeted customer as to whether the customer is interested in receiving a coupon from the well known vendor which allows the customer to purchase the movie at a discount. If the customer responds positively then system can deliver the additional content in this case an instant savings coupon which allows the customer to save money on a purchase of the movie at the particular well known vendor s store.

Additional examples of the interactive nature of the content delivery mechanism of system will be described later but for purposes of if the customer responds to content step the system can continue to deliver additional content step . The additional content is based on the previous content. System can continue to offer content and provide additional content based on positive responses from customers as desired to form an entire communication sequence with a customer again which will be further described. A series of communication sequences can be integrated into a content delivery program which can include an entire marketing scheme for a particular target audience.

When the communication sequence is terminated either by reaching the end of the sequence or by the customer terminating the sequence prematurely by negatively responding to content the system then moves to evaluate the series of events which transpired by first compiling response data step . Thereafter or at some time in the future system runs statistical reports conducts analysis and or exports data in order to provide users with analysis step . Additionally system generates reports to aid in program analysis and or recommendations to past current and prospective users for marketing planning step . Method then ends step .

As part of wrapping up transactional data associated with a particular communication sequence or series of communication sequences system can include an analysis center which utilizes software executing on system to provide interpretation of the data. The analysis center can be a feature which is built into the user module and making use of user database for example. The analysis center can be hosted by a server in system and delivered via website over network to user interface . In a website embodiment of the analysis center information is provided to users over the web on how to interpret the results of previous and or current content delivery programs. The information can be provided for the purpose of analysis or to impact current or future delivery programs.

An example analysis center can include data quantitative and or qualitative information such as program response conversion cost per viewing cost per response cost per sale top responder profiling predictive models or other information valuable to a user. System can implement an additional pricing model where program analysis charges may apply to some or all of the above services. Further users may elect to use consulting services which integrate a representative of system and the user to provide a complete analysis of previous programs and or marketing plans for future programs.

To calculate derive extrapolate or otherwise provide analysis of the data of a particular program or communication sequence system can utilize various databases such as user database . User database can include a relational database consisting of data supplied by or derived from users. Examples of user data include categories as shown by . Categories such as product service location pricing distribution methods and seasonality can be tied together by a relational key. In one embodiment a relational key can include a mobile telephone number of an individual target audience member customer. Stored procedures or similar executable code associated with the user database can store how to perform common operations such as gathering statistical information about usage patterns.

In addition to a relational database which can be used by users database module can also include a transactional database integrated into payment database or elsewhere which serves as a data repository used for operations and analysis. Transactions can include the examples as shown by such as costs contacts responses sales revenues and retail transactions. A transactional database can assist system in post program data management such as generating statistical reports for a user. In addition a series of transactions can be analyzed by system to increase system performance or to tailor a particular service of system to a particular user.

Turning to an example method of dynamic content delivery to a mobile device is depicted. System has the ability to merge content which has been dynamically tailored by a user for a specific targeted customer with geographic data about the targeted customer to provide for a content delivery system which is highly effective. Method begins step by system taking steps to determine geographic information of a customer or a plurality of customers step . In one embodiment system can ascertain geographical location using GPS data which is sent to system over network . As such a mobile device receives GPS signals from satellite . A processor on mobile device determines differences in time or in frequency of the signal s arrival to calculate a relative position in three dimensional space. The mobile device then regularly sends the location information to system . As part of a subscriber agreement with a customer i.e. in exchange for reduced airtime charges or free mobile equipment a customer can agree to opt in to sharing geographical information with system as described.

Once system has received geographical information for a customer or a plurality of customers system then aggregates the data step to determine populations of customers in specified geographical areas. The aggregation calculation can be performed through the use of one or more modules such as database module on system . As part of the aggregation calculation system can match specified user information with customer populations step . Including time sensitive content can make the system even more powerful. For example a professional sports franchise such as a baseball club may have a game on a particular Sunday afternoon. For an unknown reason ticket sales on that particular day are down and the club would like to fill the stadium making perhaps less revenue but more than if the stadium were left empty. A couple of hours before game time the club may wish to target individual customers who are in the general location of the baseball field. The customers in the defined geographical area may be able to more easily attend the game with late notice for example. As such the user baseball club has prepared dynamic content which advertises the game with accompanying video sounds etc. The content may advertise tickets at price.

System matches the dynamic content which was built by the ball club with a targeted customer in a particular geographic location. A population of customers can be identified by system that have a higher propensity to buy baseball tickets. For example the customers may be interested in baseball sports in general have attended games in the past etc. Factors which may or may not be selected by the club can come into play. Again system can make an educated recommendation based on data analysis. Once the population is identified and matched with user content the system then moves to identify particular customers in the specified population step to deliver the content. System again can aggregate a list for each targeted customer to send content. System can also implement additional time sensitive delivery of content where content advertising discounted prices are sent to certain customers at a certain time and closer to game time additional customers are targeted or additional content is sent.

System then sends a content notification signal SMS etc. to each of the targeted customers step . Again the notification can identify to a customer that content is waiting to be delivered. The customer then accepts the delivery step . Returning to the example of a baseball club user the content can include a short video which appears on the screen of the mobile device . The video can include a statement by a well known player inviting the customer to the game. The video can include footage narrated by the team s announcer describing the opposing team and particular opposing players that the team will face.

Assuming that the customer responds positively to the program again step the customer indicates by pressing a button or entering a four digit PIN on mobile device . Content which is delivered to mobile device can include executables scripts code etc. that automatically run on mobile device to provide interactivity to a customer. An example interface will be later described. If the customer indicates that the customer wishes to purchase the tickets the notification is then sent over network to system where it is recorded. Again a customer can enter a four digit PIN to provide for the acceptance of content notification and or for a positive response to content. User developed content once positively responded to may trigger the delivery of additional associated content step . For example the baseball club may have an agreement with a local restaurant or food vendor located inside the baseball field to share advertising costs or jointly promote goods and services through system .

If a customer positively responds to the ticket content then system can be programmed to send additional content to advertise beverages or food. A local vendor may advertise a special including two large beers two bags of peanuts and two hot dogs for price to those customers which positively responded to ticket content from the ball club. A customer can then again interact with mobile device to positively respond to the additional content. The delivery of additional matched content can follow a prioritization scheme which can be implemented in conjunction with prioritization module operating on system or in conjunction with database module also operating on system . Users can with or without the help of system implement the prioritization scheme to follow a planned schedule of delivery based on a particular program.

System includes innovative means for a customer to redeem incentives stemming from positive responses to programs and content which is referred to herein as a redemption mechanism. Returning to the baseball example a customer may have the actual tickets transmitted electronically through system over network to mobile device . In addition a coupon for off a food package can also be electronically transmitted over system and network to device The electronic delivery of incentives tickets and other data can proceed in a format which is compatible with known telecommunications equipment previously described. Here again the electronic delivery of content can include added scripts code executables and the like to securely handshake with a particular mobile device to safely deliver data such as ticket information.

Once the customer reaches the baseball field the customer can press a button on mobile device which in one embodiment causes programs to execute on mobile device to generate a bar code representation of the ticket as an example of a redemption mechanism or redemption activity using the device . The bar code is then displayed on the entire screen of the device . The tickets can then be read by a traditional bar code reader known in the art step . In addition to containing means to generate a bar code on device system can instruct device to deliver the electronic ticket data wirelessly over a known protocol such as Bluetooth or even using a proprietary transmission means to deliver the electronic ticket information through device to the gate. At the same time the customer redeems the various incentives the transaction data is sent to system and recorded in various database modules for later analysis step . Incentives are not limited to tickets as described in the foregoing example. Incentives can include coupons merchant dollars which are redeemable for goods or services of a particular user and the like. Method then ends step .

Returning to in a step similar to step in the system can then notify the customer of available content step which the customer then accepts by pressing a four digit PIN on device or in similar fashion. System then records the acceptance of a program or particular content step . Based on the program or content accepted by the customer system calculates a particular content based incentive step . The incentives can vary depending on a particular customer particular user or particular content. The content based incentive can be structured to increase non linearly as an amount or type of content is viewed by the customer.

The incentives can include free or reduced air time for example. As a result the more programs or content time which is viewed by a customer the more reduced or free air time can be provided through system . Incentives can include coupons at retailers of the customer s choosing. Another example of an incentive can include a content time based mileage system which rewards customers who view content in airline miles. In many cases customers are in a position to view content provided through system without incurring any hardship such as waiting on commuter trains or sitting at a bus terminal. Many customers can view content as a source of entertainment while providing any number of incentives in return.

In some cases an incentive can be tied by system to the delivery of additional content. For example a customer can be offered a particular incentive once the system has determined that the customer has watched a specified number of minutes of content. The incentive can include tickets to a movie theater the users thereof having partnered with system to locate customers which are in close geographical proximity to deliver the particular content. System can offer the customer the particular incentive step and the customer can then indicate his acceptance of the incentive step . Here in method as in method the system can deliver additional matched incentives to the customer. For example the same movie theater user can then based on a favorable response by the customer initiate a program which offers a discount on refreshments such as a free bag of popcorn with any drink purchase step . Method then ends although in some embodiments the method may continue to provide matched additional incentives until the program ends or the customer declines to accept.

As previously mentioned system can include a corresponding rating system which allows customers to identify categories of content. Additionally the customer can be presented with an option to opt in or opt out of certain kinds of rated content by system . Examples of types of content ratings according to a rating system are shown in . Example ratings include MG for generic MP for political MT for tobacco etc.

System can include a mechanism which allows for customers who receive certain content and are enthusiastic about it to share the content with a friend family member or associate. Such a mechanism is described in an example method of operation depicted in . Method begins step with the step of system sending out a notification of availability of content to a particular customer as in step of method . Method again assumes that the customer accepts content step . The content is readied to be delivered then delivered to the customer and viewed step . As a next step system queries whether the customer would like to accept or positively respond to the object of the program step . Again the method assumes that the customer has positively responded to the program step . If a customer does not positively respond the program is prematurely terminated and the transaction is recorded by system step . If the customer does positively respond the program continues with the optional delivery of additional matched dynamic content until the program reaches a conclusion or a customer declines a specific offer again step .

At the conclusion of a program system queries whether the customer wishes to rate the content or provide other feedback step . Providing rating or other feedback can be beneficial to system by relaying the rating information back to a particular user or by suggesting improvements in the delivery of the content by system . Providing rating for content can be tied by system to additional incentives such as air time or other promotions to encourage the practice. Such incentives can be offered to a customer by sending incentive content along with a query message asking the customer if they wish to rate the content.

If a customer decides to rate the content then the customer proceeds to rate the content step . If a customer declines to rate the content system then queries whether the customer wishes to share the content with another contact step . The additional contact is preferably another customer who is registered on system . If the customer wishes to share the content system can provide a predetermined list of friends step based on past transactions or based on the phone directory of a particular customer or based on additional factors. The system then readies content for the delivery step . System can provide educated recommendations to other customers registered with system which have an association with the particular customer.

To encourage the concept of delivering content to as many potentially interested customers as possible an incentive system can be itself tied to the delivery of content to contacts of the customer. Such incentive programs can include an overall discount in the product for both parties should they elect to respond favorably to the content or again reduced or free air time to the referring party or any number of related incentive options. System can structure transactions such that as more contacts of a particular customer elect to positively respond to the content each customer receives a greater savings or incentive.

Method continues indefinitely as customers refer other contact customers to particular content or a particular program potentially triggering the delivery of additional matched content in a dynamic content delivery operation as previously described. Method concludes for each respective customer when the respective customer declines to share the content step . Again system then records the transactional data for further analysis.

Turning to a method illustrates an example virtual SMS communication for a particular program over system . The method begins step with priority module instructing SMS module to deliver a content notification as previously described according to a delivery schedule implemented by module . Again the content notification provides a communication that content is available to be viewed. In a next step the SMS module retrieves the SMS content step for example by requesting the content from communications module or elsewhere. The SMS content has been created by system with or without the assistance of a user as part of an overall program of content and is stored in a location such as communications module for retrieval at an appropriate time.

Again according to the schedule implemented by priority module the SMS module delivers the SMS notification of available content step . The content is delivered over network and viewed by a customer. Assuming the customer enters a PIN or otherwise indicates acceptance of the content the gateway module authenticates the customer s PIN or other method of acceptance by comparing with information which may be stored as part of gateway module database module or elsewhere step . Once authenticated the customer s positive response is relayed to the priority module step . Module receives the response data and based on a predetermined schedule then instructs the SMS module to deliver additional SMS content and or streaming content according to the schedule step . The additional SMS or streaming content can include so called matched content from the same or different user having a relationship with the first user.

The instructions to deliver SMS content or streaming content are delivered to media server located on module and or SMS aggregator also located on module or elsewhere. As a result the media server streams video and or associated data and information to the client mobile device and or the SMS aggregator sends additional SMS data step . Again assuming that the customer responds positively to the matched content the gateway module again authenticates the acceptance step . If the program includes additional content step and the customer accepts the additional content step then the acceptance data is again relayed to the priority module step and the program continues. If the program terminates because the program itself concluded step or the customer prematurely terminated the program step then system performs the data analysis and recording functions which have previously been described step . The method then ends step .

Section depicts the mobile content rating system which has been previously described. System can indicate that particular content is such as this case generic for viewing purposes. In addition to sections and system can implement a variety of windows screens graphical images video audio etc. in accordance with a particular program. In the embodiment shown sections and provide for accept and cancel decision functionality. Again however various screens and choices can be included to tailor the delivery of material to the dynamic content assembled by system and or a particular user.

Turning to the customer has accepted the delivery of content. In accordance with method and or system then queries the customer for a four digit PIN to verify identity in section . Section depicts the star characters which commonly are programmed to appear when an identification code is entered into a remote system. Again device again includes cancel functionality in the embodiment shown as well as a PIN help section designed to assist a customer with the retrieval of PIN information if the information is misplaced by a customer.

Assuming that the customer positively responds to the offer presented the particular program shown continues in with the notification and or delivery of matched content. In the embodiment shown the program includes the matched content of an additional refreshment offer by the theater chain section . Here again the accompanying accept and cancel functionality is presented.

Assuming that the customer accepts the delivery of the matched content the particular offer is then shown again according to a schedule which can be implemented through module . illustrates the delivery of the matched content as shown in section again with accompanying accept and cancel functionality. Turning to an example redemption system is shown with accompanying text in section which instructs the customer to display the barcode section to the ticket attendant. System has now uploaded the electronic ticket information to the mobile device where a processing device located on device converts the ticket data to the graphical barcode image seen. In the embodiment depicted a ticket attendant can scan the mobile device with a traditional barcode reader to provide authentication that the customer has purchased valid tickets over system .

Once a user with or without the assistance of system has identified a particular product or service to utilize the bid mechanism with the user and or system selects a respective target audience for the product or service step . In the example of delivery of matched content the selection of a target audience may have been preliminarily defined whereas the implementation of method is aimed towards those customers who have accepted the delivery of matched content. In other words the target audience may come to be defined or further defined through the content delivery process. In another example a user can perform tasks similar to steps and see with the assistance of system to identify a particular customer s .

Depending on the product service identified and the respective target audience selected system can also make educated recommendations as to auction parameters such as price quantity duration of auction reserve price or no reserve and other similar auction parameters. A user can choose to select as much assistance from system as he desires in the auction formation process. In keeping with the functional flexibility depicted in previous system operations a user can self select virtually every aspect of a bidding transaction to suit a particular situation. Once auction parameters are designated step the system again notifies the target customer s of available content step in a manner similar to that previously described Assuming that the customer accepts the auction content step the customer views the content and does not wish to place a bid or otherwise participate in the auction step the method then ends step .

If a customer views the content and wishes to participate various auction contents are handled in different ways by system . If the bidding is not deemed to be interactive content or content which is not capable of being interactive step then a customer simply enters a hard bid step . If interactive auction content is presented system incorporates an additional feature which here is termed voicelink. Voicelink is a process which allows a user to directly link or otherwise communicate with a customer to perform tasks such as negotiating price quantity or other terms or to simply obtain more information about a particular product or service. If particular auction content is voicelink capable system incorporates notification information into the auction content to let a customer know that the feature is available and to give the customer the option to link with the user or a representative of the user.

In an example operation of voicelink a customer may be presented with a particular model vehicle which has been sitting in a local dealer s inventory for several months and the dealer has determined with the assistance of system that the dealer should liquidate the vehicle. System has identified certain target customers to send the auction information to as well as related content such as audio and video which describe the car which was assembled by the user for a previous system operation earlier advertisement and stored in database module or elsewhere. Once the customer views the content they are presented with a concluding screen which identifies auction parameters e.g. reserve price time of auction number of people the auction content is being presented to etc. . In the concluding screen can be an option to activate voicelink. The customer presses a button on mobile device corresponding to voicelink to activate the service. The customer is presented with various voicelink choices which have been designated by a user for the instant auction. For the example operation described the customer is presented with an option to speak with a representative about the vehicle itself e.g. features specifications etc. . The customer is also presented with an option to speak with a representative to negotiate a personal offer which can be made by the customer. The customer chooses the personal offer option.

Choosing the personal offer option activates system to use the phone features associated with mobile device . A call is placed to a private perhaps undisclosed line of a representative of the user dealer who is given authority to negotiate an offer of purchase with certain restrictions. In another embodiment an SMS message may be sent to the user representative using priority module to inform the representative of a pending negotiation and to provide a contact number of the customer for the representative to call. The direct link is then made voice channel SMS etc. between user and customer to discuss the personal offer.

Returning to method once the customer discusses product service details pricing terms and the like with the user or user representative step then again bidding concludes step and the customer is notified of the outcome step . The method then ends step .

System can perform various operations in conjunction with method that have been previously described such as assisting a user to define an appropriate target audience. System at the conclusion of an auction can again perform transaction reporting functions similar to step and step for the purposes of collecting storing and or statistically analyzing data. System with the permission of a respective user in some cases can aggregate the data to assist system in performing educated recommendations in future transactions.

Turning to an exemplary method is described which performs an additional gift registry feature associated with system . System can collect organize and distribute gift registry information to customers who agree to grant access from to the system for gift registration purposes. Method begins step by the process of a customer granting the access step . In one embodiment system accesses database module to determine friends relatives or other associates having a relationship link with the particular customer and have agreed to share gift registration information as the customer has. System then assembles the registration information which can be organized in various ways depending on a particular application such as by name type organization or business event such as birthday wedding etc. and the like. In one embodiment the customer can choose a type of organization based on her preference.

Once the registration information is assembled the system provides the information to the customer step over the network to device where the information is viewed by the customer. The customer then selects a list or other organization of information step . In one embodiment notification of the selection is transferred to the module where a gift registry database is accessed step . The database information which may include related data such as images text sounds etc. is then delivered to device to the customer step . The customer again views the information and may select a particular product or service found therein step . Again in one embodiment system incorporates additional features previously described such as facilitation of the delivery of matched content step to provide names of geographically proximate vendors for example or to provide special offers from users for the selected product or service. The system can continue to deliver matched content until the customer declines further content again similar to the processes previously described.

The various processes methods and steps previously described can be implemented using software firmware and or hardware or a combination of the foregoing which operates on system and or system . The systems and can implement software and firmware which executes on processing subcomponents such as central processing unit integrated into media server see . The software or firmware can be embodied in a computer program product which can be stored in non volatile memory such as a hard drive and or removable or transferable memory such as flash memory. Software or firmware can be embodied in long term storage media such as magnetic tapes compact disks CDs digital video disks DVDs and the like. Steps such as providing a customer with a gift registry list see step can be performed using software hardware or similar components thus described.

While one or more embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated in detail the skilled artisan will appreciate that modifications and adaptations to those embodiments may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims.

