---

title: Systems and methods for secure password entry
abstract: Systems and methods for secure password entry are provided. When a user wishes to log in or otherwise authenticate as an authorized user of a system using a password, the system can provide an apparently random sequence of characters to the user. The user can select all of the characters in the sequence of characters that also appear in the user's password. The system can determine whether all of the selected characters are in the password and that all of the characters in the sequence of characters that are also in the password were selected. The user can select the characters in any order and the selected characters can include less than all of the characters in the password. In this way, the system can authenticate the user without the user entering their entire password, thereby increasing both the efficiency and the security of the password entry operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178873&OS=09178873&RS=09178873
owner: PAYPAL. INC.
number: 09178873
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131218
---
This application relates generally to electronic authorization and more particularly to systems and methods for secure password entry.

The use of a user login name and a password for authorization of a user of a computing system is well known. In a conventional system the user is provided with empty fields into which the user enters their user login name and password. The user login name and password are typically entered into the appropriate fields using a real or virtual QWERTY keyboard and or a numerical keypad.

If the entered user login name and password do not exactly match the stored login name and password for the user authentication log in is denied. Only when the user exactly enters the correct login name and password exactly is authentication of the user successful.

In this kind of system the user enters each and every character in their password in order every time they wish to log into the system. If care is not taken this type of configuration can lead to security risks. For example because the user always enters the exact same sequence of characters the risk of the entire password being observed while being entered and or the risk of physical residue or wear on the keyboard that gives clues to a repeatedly entered password can be exploited.

It would therefore be desirable to provide systems and methods for password entry or other secret number or word entry with increased security.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Exemplary applications of apparatuses and methods according to the present invention are described in this section. These examples are being provided solely to add context and aid in the understanding of the invention. It will thus be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps have not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Other applications are possible such that the following examples should not be taken as limiting.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the description and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments of the present invention. Although these embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention it is understood that these examples are not limiting such that other embodiments may be used and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one embodiment an embodiment various examples one example an example or some examples means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of these are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

According to an embodiment a computer program product can comprise a non transitory machine readable medium. The non transitory machine readable medium can have computer readable and executable code for instructing one or more processors to perform any of the methods disclosed herein.

System may include a user device and a service provider server in communication over a network . Service provider server may be maintained by an online service provider such as an email service provider a banking service provider a records service provider a payment service such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. or any other service provider that maintains user accounts into which a user can log in using a password or execute transactions using a password or other secret number code or word. A user such as a sender or consumer utilizes user device to interact e.g. to perform transactions such as payments or other operations with service provider server . For example a user may utilize user device to initiate a payment transaction receive a transaction approval request or reply to the request. Note that transaction as used herein refers to any suitable action performed using the user device including payments transfer of information display of information accessing of user account information sending messages receiving messages posting items for sale purchasing items bidding on items for sale etc.

User device and service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other suitable networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data.

User device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as a user account. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application .

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications.

Applications may also include email texting voice and instant messing applications that allow user to send and receive entails calls and or text messages through network as well as applications that enable the user to communicate transfer information make payments and otherwise utilize a smart wallet through a payment provider as discussed above. User device may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the service provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables user device to communicate within system .

User device may include applications for collecting environmental data such as geo location data via Global Positioning System GPS temperature data altitude data humidity data data regarding device movement ambient sound data imaging data via a camera etc.

User device may include one or more displays such as display . Display may be a display based on any suitable display technology and may be operable to display images to the user. Display may be a touchscreen display that is able to receive touch input from user . In various embodiments display may be used to display apparently random sequences of characters e.g. random semi random and or non random sequences of characters that when displayed to a user appear to be random that are selectable by user during a password entry operation. The displayed characters can be selected by the user by touching display at the location of the displayed characters and or by moving a cursor over the location of the displayed characters using a mouse a touchpad or other input device.

Service provider server may be maintained for example by an online service provider which may provide one or more online services to user . In this regard service provider server includes one or more service applications which may be configured to interact with user device over network to facilitate the services and communicate display information at user device . For example service provider server may provide services such as payment transaction services banking services retail shopping services etc.

Service provider server may also maintain a plurality of user accounts . Each user account may include account information associated with one or more users. For example account information may include private information of users such as financial information account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Account information may also include security profiles for users or user devices.

Security applications which may be part of service application or may be separate from service application may be configured to receive security information from a user device for processing and storage in a service database . Security applications may include one or more applications for processing and managing security information from user . Security applications may include an application for generating apparently random sequences of characters. An apparently random sequence of characters may be a sequence of characters e.g. letters numbers special characters or other characters that may be used to form a password that are randomly selected from a larger character set purposefully selected from a larger character set in a way that appears random arranged in a random order purposefully arranged in an order that appears random or any combination of these.

An apparently random sequence of characters may be displayed to a user that is attempting to authenticate as an authorized user using display . An apparently random sequence of characters that is displayed to a user may include one or more characters that are also in a password of the user that is stored in account information . An apparently random sequence of characters may be a sequence of any suitable length and may include one more of the same characters. In various embodiments an apparently random sequence of characters may include more characters than the number of characters in the user s password fewer characters than the number of characters in the user s password or the same number of characters that are in the user s password. A password may be any group of characters e.g. letters numbers special characters capital letters lower case letters etc. provided to or chosen by a user. In some situations a password may be referred to by other names such as a personal identification number PIN .

In embodiments in which the number of characters in the apparently random sequence of characters is less than the number of characters in the user s password the process of authenticating e.g. the process of entering the password may take less time for the user and for the system. In this way the efficiency of the password entry operation may be increased. Moreover using its prior knowledge of the user s password the system may be able to recognize an entered password based on a set of selected characters in the apparently random sequence of characters that contains less than all of the characters in the user s password. A password entry operation of this type may be more secure than a password entry operation in which all of the characters of the user s password are entered particularly operations in which all of the characters of the user s password are entered in order.

Security applications may generate apparently random e.g. random semi random or non random but selected and or arranged to appear random sequences of characters. A random sequence of characters may for example be a sequence of characters selected from a larger character set based on a random selection algorithm. A semi random sequence of characters may for example be a sequence of characters e.g. letters numbers special characters etc. selected from a larger character set based on a random selection algorithm that is weighted or required to include one or more characters that are in a password of a user that is attempting to authenticate. A non random sequence of characters that is selected and or arranged to appear random may be for example a sequence of characters selected from a larger character set using an algorithm that purposefully selects some characters that are in the user s password and some characters that are not in the user s password and if desired arranges the characters in a random or semi random order. A semi random or non random sequence of characters may in some embodiments be chosen as the apparently random sequence of characters in order to ensure that at least one character in the user s password appears in the apparently random sequence. Service application may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for user as well as create new accounts if necessary such as the set up and management of user accounts.

In the example of a sequence of 20 characters that is arranged in two rows of 10 characters each is shown. However this is merely illustrative. Sequence may have more than 20 characters or less than 20 characters and may be arranged in any suitable pattern.

In one embodiment the number of characters in sequence is determined based on the length of the password of the user to whom the sequence is being displayed as determined by accessing the user s account. In other embodiments the number of characters in various sequences can be the same or different for a user and or for multiple users.

The size and location of portion of the display on which sequence is displayed and or the number of characters in sequence may be optimized during design and manufacturing operations for a security application based on an optimized sequence size that minimizes user entry error. For example based on a minimum error rate determined in tests in which test users enter various passwords many times using various display portion sizes and sequence sizes an optimal display portion size and sequence size may be obtained. In this way it may be determined that for a particular type of mobile device or screen size an optimal size for portion of a display is a fraction e.g. a quarter half an eighth etc. of the total display size. For example a smaller display may have a higher fraction as the optimal size whereas a larger display may have a smaller fraction. During operation a security application may determine e.g. using a JavaScript or native operating system call to the user device the size of the display and provide instructions to the user device for displaying the apparently random sequence of characters on the display using a suitable sized sequence based on a predetermined minimum error rate.

In one suitable embodiment that is sometimes discussed herein as an example instructions may be provided to use a portion with a width that is equal to the available display screen width minus a ten pixel margin on both sides of the portion and a height that is equal to one quarter of the display screen height. This type of configuration may be suitable for display on for example handheld and or mobile device displays. For larger displays such as desktop displays other optimal portion sizes may be used.

Sequence may be displayed to a user when the user provides user identifying information such as a login name a customer number or an email address. In some embodiments the user identifying information may be provided automatically by a user device e.g. using a cookie or other information such as information of . A system that is displaying sequence may also obtain the user s stored password. Some of characters in any particular sequence may also be characters in the user s password. Characters in sequence that are also characters in the user s password may be randomly included in sequence or may be purposely included in sequence .

When a user having a password such as password wishes to log in or otherwise authenticate as an authorized user the user may upon being presented with a sequence select characters in the sequence that are also in the user s password as shown in .

As shown in a user may utilize an entry device such as entry device e.g. the user s finger on a touchscreen display another entry device on a touchscreen display or a mouse touchpad or other device for selecting displayed characters to select characters S that appear in the user s password password as an example . In the example of the user has selected all instances of the letters p a s and d because those characters appear in the user s password. In this example the user has selected the letter a twice even though the letter a only appears once in the user s password and the user has selected the letter s only once even though the letter s appears twice in the user s password. In this example other characters in the user s password e.g. w are not included in sequence .

Presenting an apparently random sequence of characters to a user for password entry in this way therefore provides multiple security and efficiency enhancements. The user s selection of characters S provides no information about the number of times each character appears in the user s password even if the entire password entry operation were to be observed by a potential password thief. Moreover less than all of the characters in a user s password are selected in any given password entry operation. It would therefore be impossible for a potential thief to obtain the user s password even if every aspect of the user s password entry operation were to be observed. The password entry operation can also be faster than a conventional password entry operation in which all of the characters of the password are entered.

The system may authenticate the user if all of the selected characters S also appear in the user s password and or if all of the characters in the user s password that are included in sequence have been selected. In this way a system may be provided in which a user may enter a single password many times without touching the same portion of an entry device in the same way and without entering the same set of characters more than once. This type of system can increase the difficulty of observing and or stealing the user s password.

In a situation in which the user fails to select all of the characters in sequence that appear in the user s password and or the user selects characters that are not in the user s password authentication may fail and the user may be presented with a new sequence of characters such as sequence of . As shown in each time a sequence of characters is displayed the individual characters in the sequence may be different.

Because sequence includes a different set of apparently randomly selected and distributed characters from any previously provided apparently random sequence of characters e.g. sequence when the user selects characters from sequence the characters in sequence that are also in the user s password will be different and differently arranged than the matching characters in any previous sequence. This provides multiple security and efficiency benefits. For example when the user again attempts to select the matching characters in the apparently random sequence that are also in the user s password a different set of characters will be selected. An observer of the password entry process would therefore observe two different sets of selected characters and would therefore be unable to identify the user s password without the system s prior knowledge of the password. Moreover the effectiveness of brute force attacks in which an attacking computing system tries to guess a user s password many times can be reduced because the correct entry for the same password may not be the same from entry to entry.

Illustrative steps that may be involved in providing secure password entry for a user according to one embodiment are shown in . The process of may be performed by service provider server such as service provider server in a network based system such as system of .

At step the server e.g. a processor of the server may receive user identifying information. The user identifying information may be received from a user device such as user device of . The user identifying information may be a username an email address a customer number a license number a passport number or any other information that identifies the user to the server. The user identifying information may have been chosen by the user during an account setup process for the user on the server according to an embodiment. The server may store e.g. in memory a copy of the user identifying information along with other information for that user in for example a user account.

At step the server may retrieve the user s password using the user identifying information. Retrieving the user s password using the user identifying information may include accessing an account of the user that is associated with the user identifying information and retrieving e.g. reading from memory the user s stored password from the user account.

At step the server may provide an apparently random character sequence to the user e.g. by transmitting the apparently random character sequence to a user device of the user with instructions to display the apparently random character sequence to the user on a display of the user device . The apparently random character sequence may be a sequence of characters of the type described above in connections with for example and . As described herein an apparently random sequence of characters may have more characters than the number of characters in the user s password the same number of characters as the number of characters in the user s password or a number of characters that is smaller than the number of characters in the user s password. The number of characters in the apparently random sequence of characters may be chosen based on an optimized balance of security and efficiency for the password entry processes.

For example in an apparently random sequence having only a single character the character is either in the password or not in the password and the chance of guessing the correct entry e.g. selecting or not selecting the character is 50 . Each additional character in the apparently random sequence of characters reduces the likelihood that a guess will be a correct entry. Each additional character also adds to the time it takes for a user to select the matching characters. The apparently random sequence of characters may therefore have one two three four five six more than six ten more than ten or any other suitable number of characters that balances the efficiency of entry with the difficulty of guessing the correct entry.

An apparently random sequence of characters may have zero one two or more than two characters that also appear in the user s password. In some embodiments the apparently random sequence of characters may be generated in a way that ensures that at least one character in the sequence also appears in the user s password.

At step the server may receive selected characters in the apparently random sequence of characters from the user. The server may receive the selected characters from the user when the user taps touches clicks or otherwise selects any characters in the apparently random character sequence e.g. characters that also appear in the user s password . The user s selections may be transmitted to the server by communications circuitry in the user device. In some situations an apparently random sequence of characters may not include any characters that appear in the user s password. In this type of situation the received selected characters may be an empty character set containing no characters.

At step the server may compare the selected characters with the user s password. The server may compare the selected characters with the user s password by determining whether the selected characters are all in the user s password determining whether all of the characters that are in both the apparently random character sequence and the user s password have been selected and or performing other comparisons such as correlation analyses cross correlation analyses or other statistical or other comparisons of the selected characters and the characters of the user s password.

At step if all of the selected characters are in the user s password and or all of the characters that are in both the apparently random character sequence and the user s password have been selected the user may be authenticated.

If any of the selected characters are not in the user s password and or if any of the characters that are in both the apparently random character sequence and the user s password have not been selected the user may not be authenticated and the server may return to step as indicated by arrow . Upon returning to step a different apparently random sequence of characters may be provided to the user and steps and may be repeated.

In situations in which an apparently random sequence has no characters that are in the user s password and the user selects no characters in that sequence the user may either be authorized based on a correct selection of no characters or may be presented with a new apparently random sequence of characters.

A system may return to step as indicated by arrow any suitable number of times. In some embodiments the number of times in which a system may provide new apparently random sequences of characters for password entry may be limited in order to prevent a computer from attempting to guess a user s password an undesirable number of times. In general the steps described above in connection with may be performed in any suitable order combined and or repeated in any suitable way for secure password entry.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as a user device a merchant server or a payment provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

