---

title: Methods and apparatus for electronic document handling
abstract: A method for electronic document handling utilizing a browser apparatus communicatively coupled to a document execution server comprises downloading an unsigned electronic document from the document execution server to the browser apparatus and downloading a front-end program including zoom instructions from the document execution server to the browser apparatus. The front-end program may be separate from or part of the unsigned electronic document. The method also includes displaying the unsigned electronic document on the display screen of the browser apparatus. This displaying includes displaying fields to be filled in by the operator of the browser apparatus using the pointing apparatus and the data entry apparatus. The method also includes running the front-end program downloaded from the document execution server to zoom into or out of at least one of the displayed fields.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09507760&OS=09507760&RS=09507760
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 09507760
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131219
---
This invention relates generally to methods and apparatus for facilitating the completion of electronic documents and more particularly to methods and apparatus for facilitating the entry of information and or signatures into such documents. The disclosures of all of the following provisional and utility patent applications are incorporated by reference herein U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 253 778 filed Oct. 21 2009 entitled Improved Systems and Methods for Document Signing U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 827 filed on Oct. 20 2010 entitled Document Signing Systems and Methods U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 840 filed on Oct. 20 2010 entitled Computer Form Action Zone Summary System and Method and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 847 filed on Oct. 20 2010 entitled Form Completion Rate Enhancement System and Method. This application does not rely for priority on the U.S. patent applications listed above nor is a claim made of benefit from the filing date of the U.S. provisional patent application.

Businesses and individuals rely on legally executed documents in a variety of contexts from completion of complex forms used by governments and institutions e.g. insurance forms car loan and purchase forms and the like to simple contracts between individuals e.g. lease agreements wills and a host of miscellaneous arrangements with a range of contracts in between.

Documents signed by overnight envelope take a minimum of one day to reach the recipient and an additional day to be returned. Due to intra office distribution delays and recipients tendency to put paper documents in to do piles the average cycle time using overnight envelopes is 5 7 days. Documents signed by fax have an average cycle time of 2 3 days due to intra office delays procrastination of paper document tasks and fax machine mishaps. Faced with the burden of signing a paper document and returning it by fax scan or mail many recipients put it down on their desk and forget about it.

As a result users are increasingly turning to exchanging executed documents online. These documents not only include a field for including a signature such as the type described above but may be more complex to include additional fields that may require the signer to initial sign or take some other action. However in a large document signers may easily lose track of how many such fields they are required to complete i.e. sign initial fill with data and how many they already have completed. Thus when users of an online document exchange program encounter problems such as a signer not completing a document or a signer not understanding what actions are required they turn to customer support. This not only slows down the completion progress of a signing event but also increases the load on customer support.

For such complex electronic documents signer users typically are provided with limited guidance. The signer user is expected to use general navigation techniques such as scrollbars arrow keys tab buttons and the like to move from one information field to the next. More particularly and in the present contexts entry of data into information fields is hindered by the use of small screens on many devices. For example laptop and sub laptop computers may have screens of 11 inches about 28 cm diagonally measured popularly priced tablet computers may have screens of 7 inches about 18 cm or less and although some smart phones are being made with screens of up to about 6.4 inches about 16 cm many popular smart phone screens measure only 5 inches 12.7 cm or less.

When a data entry field small enough to be seen in the context of a document is selected on such small screens and data is typed in or graphical information such as a handwritten signature is entered the user may be frustrated. For example the number of keystrokes mouse clicks and or multi finger gestures required to zoom into the field enter data and then zoom out so that the document can be read again may become annoying. Yet if the person who is entering this data fails to enlarge the field enough he or she may not be able to see errors being made while typing data. Additionally signatures or other graphic data may not be digitized accurately enough to be identifiable. Also if a person s figure or stylus slips outside the field limits unintended results may occur including the termination of data entry.

Thus there remains a need for apparatus and methods to facilitate completion of electronic documents with form fields.

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. To the extent that the figures illustrate diagrams of the functional blocks of various embodiments the functional blocks are not necessarily indicative of the division between hardware circuitry.

As used herein an element or step recited in the singular and proceeded with the word a or an should be understood as not excluding plural said elements or steps unless such exclusion is explicitly stated. Furthermore references to at least one embodiment of the present invention are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features. Moreover unless explicitly stated to the contrary embodiments comprising or having an element or a plurality of elements having a particular property may include additional such elements not having that property. Also it will be observed that a large number of features are recited in various combinations. To recite all the possible combinations of features that may be found in every embodiment would result in an excessively lengthy description. Therefore the description herein is not intended to limit the scope of the invention to only the various combinations recited herein. The scope of the invention should instead be understood to include all possible combinations of features recited herein except those specifically excluded herein and those that have features that are inherently incompatible with one another. It will be understood that not all embodiments will necessarily achieve all the possible advantages recited herein.

Generally the present system and method are directed to facilitating completion of an electronic document via a signer user over the internet or similar network. In particular the present system and method facilitates completion of a scaffold electronic document that includes multiple information entry fields which may include signature fields associated with signature entry pads which requires completion by a signer user.

As used herein a signer user as seen in may be the document sender or one or more third parties. In addition the term signature field as used herein includes entry fields for information or data that may include signatures signer name unique signer identifiers signature initials addresses or any other information that a document sender may identify as being acceptable forms of information for a particular signature field. For example in one real estate transaction document one signature field type may require entry of the signer user s full legal name another signature field type may require entry of the target real property address another signature field type may include date data and such. Thus for example only and not by way of limitation a signature field may be provided as an entry field for some form of identification or it may be provided as a simple text entry field where a signer user may insert anything.

In addition the term signature includes any biometric action by a signer user such as freehand motion using a mouse electronic pen touch screen or any other method for detecting and recording either temporarily or in a stored location graphics unique or capable of being associated with a particular signer user. It may also include iris or other eye scan data fingerprints vocal sound or voiceprints or other available biometrics. The freehand motion may either approximate electronically the signer user s traditional signature i.e. as performed with a pen or pencil on paper or may be a graphic that is quite dissimilar from the signer user s traditional signature.

For present purposes a signature field can be thought of as a generic term for different types of fields. Examples of signature fields include a data entry field or synonymously an information entry field into which text is typed for example a signature entry field into which graphical or other data uniquely associated with a particular signer user is entered and a biometric field into which a signature or other type of biometric data that is uniquely associated with a particular signer user is entered. The term biometric field may be considered a more generic form of a signature entry field. The term signature entry field should however be distinguished from the more generic term signature field. It may help to illustrate the hierarchy 

For example and referring to with respect to the signing of an unsigned electronic document some embodiments of the present system include a document execution server DES in communication with a document and authentication data storage device a document summary server and a document flag server . The document execution server is configured to receive over a network from a document sender a scaffold document that contains one or more information entry fields together with additional data representative of the identities of signer users who are to sign the electronic document and parties to be copied the envelope information .

As further shown in some embodiments also include a document summary server in communication with the document execution server and associated with a scaffold electronic document via network described in further detail below. The document summary server facilitates the entry by a signer user of information into the one or more information entry fields in the scaffold document .

The system further includes a document flag server in communication with the document execution server and associated scaffold electronic document via network described in further detail below. Referring now to and the document flag server associates one or more flags a signal or alert such as a graphical representation of a sign here flag with signature fields in an unsigned electronic document so that a signer user can easily identify where a signature or other information is required to be entered in the document. In an embodiment the document execution server obtains flag data from the document flag server and associates a visual flag in a location on the unsigned electronic document with the unsigned electronic document prior to sending the document to a signer user .

Additionally referring now to and returning now to the document execution server that server sends or otherwise makes available the unsigned electronic document with or without including an information summary indicator from the document summary server and or a flag from the document flag server to one or more signer users identified by the document sender . Once each target signer user completes all designated signature fields for that signer user the document execution server converts the original unsigned electronic document into an at least signed electronic document . Once all target signer users have completed all designated signature fields the input is combined to generate a signed electronic document . The signed electronic document may be logged and stored in the document and authentication data storage device for future use.

The document execution server may send notifications to the document sender as well as other designated signer users indicating the progress of the signing activity. For example the notifications may identify signature fields in the electronic document still requiring entry of data by one or more of the signer users.

In some example embodiments and referring to a screenshot of an unsigned electronic document is presented with a graphical flag in the left margin of the screen displaying the document. In some of these embodiments the flag is a brightly colored tab that includes the text required to identify for the signer user that there is a signature field along the same visual line on the screen that requires the signer user to complete. In some embodiments the flags are a graphical equivalent of a sticky label which appear to stick out of or wrap around the edge of the document as an indicator to the signer user. In some embodiments and referring to a display of an unsigned electronic document having multiple signature fields is provided. The unsigned electronic document includes content displayable to a signer user as text graphics or a combination of text and graphics. The unsigned electronic document includes one or more signature fields into which data is entered by signer users at one or more locations on the pages of the electronic document using online signature entry pads shown in associated with each signature entry field as described in further detail below. The location type and number of signature fields per document are specified by the document sender to the document execution server . The document execution server associates the signature fields identified by the document sender and presents the unsigned electronic document including all signature fields to the respective signer users identified by the document sender . In some embodiments and referring to the right side of the progress in signing or otherwise completing the signature fields for a signer user is indicated by an information summary indicator which is shown in this as a thermometer type graphic. The example electronic document shown in is for a Chief Executive Officer signer user displaying a signature field .

In at least one example embodiment the document execution server converts the original unsigned electronic document into an unsigned web ready document having the same information and signature fields as the original document. Unsigned web ready documents are ready for dynamic entry of information into the signature fields by one or more signer users . This web ready conversion of the original documents may be achieved using standard conversion software and algorithms readily available and known to those skilled in the relevant art. For example a Microsoft Word Document can be opened in the OpenOffice Application exported as a PDF and then using pdf2swf from SWFTOOLS.org exported in Flash format which readily is displayable in most generally commercially available web browsers. In at least one embodiment the unsigned electronic document is exported using similar tools into PNG files which are supported by commercially available web browsers and which technology is available in services such as DOCSTOC.com and SCRIBD.com.

After receiving the original unsigned electronic document and as applicable converting the document to an unsigned web ready document in an example embodiment the document execution server makes available via a network either the original unsigned electronic document or the unsigned web ready document to a signer user together with an online signature entry pad associated with each signature field in the unsigned electronic document . In an embodiment the document execution server makes the unsigned electronic document available to multiple signer users either simultaneously or serially depending on instructions from the document sender or other external predetermined parameters and input. In at least one example embodiment the document execution server delivers the unsigned electronic document or a link thereto via an application programming interface API for access by predetermined signer users. In another example embodiment document execution server delivers the unsigned web ready document or a link thereto via the API.

In at least one embodiment also as shown in the document summary server may send a scaffold document via email or other electronic transmission to one or more signer users . The same scaffold document is made available to multiple signer users either in a web ready format via email via a link through an API or using other electronic means as may be desirable for each signer user as is the case with any unsigned electronic document. For example in one embodiment a link to a document is emailed by document summary server to one or more signer users where the link provides access to a webpage containing or otherwise providing access to a web ready document.

In response to receipt of the signature data from one or more of the signer users the document execution server generates a signed or otherwise filled in or completed electronic document corresponding to the unsigned electronic document and including the signature data.

In an embodiment the signed electronic document then is made available by the document execution server to all or a predetermined subset of the signer users and to the document sender for verification confirmation and other predetermined actions. In an embodiment the document execution server transmits the signed or otherwise completed electronic document in a locked form to a document and authentication data storage device .

In an embodiment the document summary server establishes a group index i for each of the m groups of information entry fields F . For purposes of this document we use the following definitions. With respect to signer users m number of users groups of user fields e.g. the number of participant signer users wherein 1

Individual fields are represented as Fis the field j for U Pis the page number on which Iappears Lis the actionable link to bring Fto the viewport for example if Fis offscreen to a signer user clicking a link Lwill bring Finto the middle of the user screen and make the field active for input by the sender user and Zis the visual indicator of next Ito be completed by the signer user. Thus 1

Upon receiving a scaffold document from a document sender the document summary server establishes a group index i for each of the m groups of information entry fields where 1 i m and establishes a subgroup index jfor the igroup of information entry fields Iof the respective m groups where 1 i m and where 1 j n wherein and jfor the iuser have initial values equal to 1 for the scaffold electronic document and i and jhave maximum values equal to m and nrespectively for the scaffold electronic document. The document summary server makes available over the network a version of the scaffold document to one or more signer users . The scaffold document is displayable to each signer user to allow the signer user to identify the information entry fields . As used herein the term information entry field has the same meaning as signature field however the term information entry fields is preferred in reference to scaffold documents and the term signature fields is preferred in reference to any unsigned electronic document.

The flowchart of further illustrates an embodiment of the present method. As shown a document sender accesses the document execution server via a network such as the internet. The document sender then uploads the original electronic document to the document execution server DES . The document sender then indicates the name and contact information of each signer user each entity that will receive a copy of either the unsigned electronic document and or the signed electronic document and any order in which the signature fields contained in the subject document are to be completed by the designated signer users. The document sender also indicates at this time the locations of signature fields within the unsigned electronic document together with instructions regarding which signer user is required to complete which corresponding signature field. With multiple signer users different signer users generally are required to complete different signature fields as well as different signature field types. For example in a real estate transaction the buyer may be required to provide a signature a personal address and a date whereas an escrow agent may be required to provide a signature a license number and financial information.

As shown in in an embodiment the document execution server prepares a web ready version of the original document. The document execution server also may generate thumbnail displays flags or other indicia associated with the various signature fields for easier review by the signer user and a more expedient signer user completion of the designated signature fields.

Turning to once the document execution server receives the original document together with the additional document information from the document sender the document execution server follows the signing order instructions sent by the document sender. For each designated signer user the document execution server in effect prepares an unsigned electronic document associated with the original document and a signature entry pad for each signature field. All such information regarding the signer user and instructions related to the document are collectively referred to the envelope of the electronic document. Additional envelope information may include data associated with the identity of the signer user such as email address IP address SMS address facsimile number or other electronic forms of address or identification. This envelope is integrally associated with the original document and as such remains part of the associated electronic and web ready versions of the same document as such are generated by the document executive server.

In at least one embodiment an API user such as another internet based device is the document sender which submits at the original document and the associated signer user copied users signing order signature field locations and signature field authorizations to the document execution server. In an embodiment the API user receives delivery of the unsigned web ready documents on behalf of the designated signer users.

Once the unsigned electronic document is prepared the document execution server delivers at an internet link code or embedded HTML via a network to the designated signer users. The network includes SMS email facsimile and other available technologies for distributing data. At a proximal time the document execution server in effect transmits the unsigned electronic document to the signer users. The document execution server may deliver updates of the event to the document sender and other designated entities to be copied on such transmission. In this manner the document sender can begin to track the progress of the document as the designated signer users complete the signature events.

Once the link code embedded HTML or other contact is made by the document execution server to a signer user that signer user then accesses at the unsigned electronic document by following such link returning to the website interface for the document execution server interacts with the embedded HTML code from the API user or otherwise opens the unsigned electronic document. The document execution server locates at the unsigned electronic document together with its associated envelope information and presents the same to each signer user.

As shown in the signer user views at the unsigned electronic document and enters the information requested in each of the signer user s respective signature fields. Information is entered into the signature field by the dynamic online signature entry pad associated with each signature field. Signature entry pads are dynamic fields that appear on the GUI to facilitate signer user entry of information required for the associated signature field. Such information may be entered using a touch pad mouse touch screen voice entry and other technologies generally commercially available.

Upon receipt of the entered information the document execution server creates at a graphical representation of the signature field input received from the signer user. The document execution server then or at desired times in effect combines at the graphical representations with the unsigned electronic document to generate a signed electronic document to define a signed event. In parallel with receiving the signature field input from the signer users and with generating each signed electronic document the document execution server delivers updates on the progress of the signing events to those entities identified as cc or copied entities as well as to the document sender. Once all signers have completed signing the document all graphical representations of all signature field input received from all signers is combined into a single signed document.

In some embodiments and as shown in the document execution server then delivers at a copy of the signed electronic document to each of the designated or selected ones of the signer users associated with that document. In an embodiment the document execution server optionally locks and stores at a copy of the signed electronic document or may send a copy to a document and authentication data storage device for storage. In an embodiment the document execution server generates authentication data associated with the signed electronic document. Such authentication data may be data incorporated into the signed electronic document it may be part of the document envelope or may be some additional data used only for authentication purposes.

In at least one embodiment of the present method in which a document summary server is used and referring to once the document summary server receives at a scaffold electronic document and m groups of information entry fields the scaffold and fields Fthen are displayed at to a user U. The display step includes displaying a visual representation of steps to go representing F C and I . Such visual representation may be permanent dynamic representations such as text appearing at the top or side of the screens or user selective representations such as text appearing in pull down menus on the screen. In at least one embodiment such visual representations may be in the form of dynamic graphical displays such as a thermometer type graphic a numerical button or other graphic countdown display color displays such as red buttons representing incomplete information entry fields and green buttons representing completed information entry fields. On receipt of data for F i.e. the jfield for the iuser at the user receives an updated display with the steps to go indicator iteratively adjusted to reflect the number of information entry fields remaining to be completed and or the number of information entry fields completed.

An example of an embodiment of the type described in the preceding paragraph updates progress indicators i.e. indicators showing a user Uhow many fields remain to be filled in are updated in real time. In this example real time means the progress indicators comprise front end code wherein field data filled in by user Uis not transmitted to a server immediately but rather is stored temporarily in a data store local to and accessible by the browser i.e. the front end used by user U and the progress indicators update in accordance with the temporarily stored data. After all required data fields are filled and the user Uclicks on a submit button in the browser the browser submits all of the data field data from the local store to the server at once. In such embodiments the phrase on receipt of data in step refers to the receipt of data by the browser and the update of the steps to go indicator requires only the front end code running in the user s browser.

In at least one embodiment the flags are successively located in the unsigned electronic document with increasing index i or are located in the unsigned electronic document independent of the index i. In an embodiment the flags are located in the document based on an order predetermined by a document sender or document envelope information provided by the document sender to the document execution server. In at least one embodiment the flags are located in the document based on an order determined by a signer user or a third party.

In at least one embodiment the flags for Uand Umay all appear in the same document where the flags associated with Uare a different color or shape than the flags associated with U. In at least one embodiment the flags for Uand Umay be the same color but the flags may be specific icons associated with the respective signer users.

In an embodiment having a document with multiple signature fields the flags may be dynamic such that they move from signature field to signature field as the signer user completes each field. In another embodiment a page with multiple signature fields may include several flags indicating simultaneously all signature fields on the page. Then when a signer user completes a signature field the associated flag disappears all flags disappear once all signature fields in the unsigned electronic document are completed by the signer user . In a scaffold document the flags may be different graphical colors or shapes to indicate different information entry fields . For example flags associated with information entry fields requiring name data graphically appear as blue flags flags associated with information entry fields requiring date data graphically appear as green flags and the like.

In at least one example embodiment of the present method the scaffold document is one selected from predetermined template documents created by third party entities or the administrator of the present method and stored in the document execution server for use by customer document senders via API. In such an embodiment as shown in a document sender or an application used by a document sender requests a list of template electronic documents. Such template documents have predetermined signature fields which are not generally changed or changeable by the document sender. An example of such an embodiment would be form lease agreements or other standard forms. In another example embodiment of the present invention template documents are sent via a web user interface UI as opposed to an application programming interface API . In yet another example embodiment template documents can be sent either via a web user interface UI or by an application programming interface API .

Upon receiving the request the document execution server delivers via API or via UI a list of available templates to the sender user. The sender user application selects a template. Upon receipt of the sender user template choice the document execution server performs document package pre process . This pre process generates a document ID associated with the template. It is possible that many document ID s are associated with each template and each unique document having an assigned unique document ID likely will have a unique envelope. The API then delivers the merge fields and roles associated with the envelope for the designated template. The sender user application provides merge data information relating to the signer users and other information and data required for the designated template. In this example the template is the unsigned electronic document identified and discussed above. The document execution server processes the unsigned template document in a manner similar to that described above and sends links via email to each designated signer user. Each designated signer user provides the information required for each signature field. For signature fields designated as optional to one or more signer users by the sender user the information may be left blank by the associated signer user s . Upon receipt of all required signature field data and whatever optional signature field data that may be entered such data is incorporated into an unsigned template document and the document execution server locks the resulting signed electronic document as described above in further detail.

At that point the signed electronic document may be stored in a document and authentication data storage device and copies of the signed electronic document sent at and to the document sender at and others as designated by the document sender at

In some embodiments sender users select a template unsigned electronic document from a website from the user s own library or from secondary sources. In at least one embodiment the step of processing the document is followed by an API or UI delivery of embedded signing codes. In at least one embodiment all communications between the document sender and the document execution server or between the document execution server and one or more of the designated signer users is via email facsimile SMS and other electronic communications methods generally available. As used herein an embedded signing code is a code that is inserted into the HTML code of an existing third party webpage to display a document signing event e.g. in an iFrame inside the third party webpage. This type of code may be similar to but not necessarily the same as an embedded code provided by YT .

In at least one embodiment as shown in the document execution server prior to delivering the unsigned electronic document to the signer user modifies the unsigned electronic document to include flag data to successively identify to each respective signer user the signature fields in that unsigned electronic document which required data entry. This flag data is removed in one example embodiment when the document execution server combines the unsigned document and graphical representations of signature field data to create the signed electronic document.

In at least one embodiment as shown in the document execution server prior to or contemporaneous with delivering the unsigned electronic document to the signer user modifies the unsigned electronic document to include summary data represented by an information summary indicator associated with the document to assist signer users identify the locations of signature fields in the electronic document. Such information summary indicator is presented in a side menu to the document appears visually on the same page as a signature field or is presented anywhere on the visual periphery of document pages. The information summary indicator includes such indicators as the total number of signature fields in the subject document the number of signature fields that have been completed the number of signature fields remaining to be completed or any combination of such data. In at least one embodiment the information summary indicator is presented graphically as a bar as buttons as text as color indicators e.g. red for incomplete signature fields green for completed signature fields and the like. In an embodiment the information summary indicator is static by presenting location identification data e.g. page paragraph information associated with each signature field or by presenting the total number of signature fields contained in the subject document. In at least one embodiment the information summary indicator is dynamic changing as the signer user completes each signature field. In some embodiments information summary indicator is superimposed on the unsigned electronic document itself. For example an entire page of a document may be color tinted to indicate the density of fields or a colored vertical bar is imposed on one side of a page e.g. the right side.

Turning now to this series of screen shots shows an exemplary embodiment of the present system and method. shows a start up home screen for a website using the present system and method. Note that the sender user is prompted to Choose a Document name the People Involved aka signer users and enter a document Description. In the sender user viewing this screen selects an NDA document from a selection of available template documents. The document sender may also import a self generated document or select a document from another source as available.

In yet other embodiments the uploaded document is parsed and a determination made of the number of signature locations and form fields or that the uploaded PDF had already indicated signature locations and form fields. In the latter instance the counter at one side of the screen may be presented in accordance with the determination.

Although these screen shots show one implementation of the present method and system there are many variations on the specific systems used software programs and languages used and layout and design used in implementing the present method and system within the scope of the claims.

The present methods and system can be practiced in a number of variations including variations on workflow. In an embodiment some information entry fields are identified as being required to be completed whereas other fields are optional. In an embodiment the workflow order is adjusted in accordance with the type of document to be completed the number and nature of the signer users involved and other variations based on the preferences set by the document sender . In one such embodiment the document sender is a set workflow order requiring one signer user to complete one or more information entry fields before certain other identified signer users. The document summary server may include workflow order restrictions for an unsigned electronic document requiring iterative serial actions. For example a document sender may instruct that signer user 1 Ucomplete information entry field 1 F followed by the completion by signer user 2 Uof information entry field 2 F before signer user 1 Ucompletes information entry field 2 F and so forth until all information entry fields are complete.

In a more simplified embodiment the document summary server assigns a workflow order that requires a first signer user Ucomplete all information entry fields F prior to the document being sent to another signer user U. In another embodiment the document summary server requires that each signer user complete the information entry fields in a predetermined order for example for signer user 1 U F THEN F and the like.

At least one embodiment includes various forms of exclusivity. For example information entry fields may be shared by one or more signer user such that either signer user may complete one or more designated information entry fields. This may be done on a per field basis or for all fields in an entire document. In another embodiment information entry fields are shared by one or more signer users such that each signer user individually completes a designated information entry field and the information provided by each such signer user is concatenated to complete a single information entry field.

At least one embodiment of the present apparatus and method includes variations on graphical updating of the summary data represented by an information summary indicator . Also in at least one embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is updated immediately to the user U. Furthermore in at least one embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is NOT updated immediately to the user U. In at least one embodiment upon receipt of the Fdata the graphical representation of the information summary indicator is updated immediately for future users i.e. U.

In at least one embodiment of the present system and method one or more Fhave default values that cannot be modified by a sender user. For example Date information entry fields automatically fill with the current date. In at least one embodiment at least one of the information entry fields have default values that can be modified by all or certain identified signer users. In at least one embodiment some information entry fields may be filled using a merge function and are thus denominated as merge fields. These embodiments have merge fields that are filled in by the document sender before sending rather than the signer user. The data in the merge fields in these embodiments is merged into the document before the signer user sees it and thus may be viewed as the sender pre filling these fields before sending the document. In at least one embodiment some multiple Fare completed by information input only one time by the signer user for example a single signature event then is automatically input simultaneously into potentially many Fidentified either by a signer user or the document sender.

Further at least one embodiment includes displaying to each signer user different types and amounts of information relating to a scaffold document . For example the screen display of an unsigned electronic document includes the total number information entry fields F and the number of complete information entry fields C but not the total number of incomplete information entry fields for a specified document. In at least one embodiment the screen display of an unsigned electronic document includes the total number information entry fields F and the number of incomplete information entry fields I but not the total number of complete information entry fields C for a specified document.

In at least one embodiment the screen displays the page numbers Pon which the next incomplete information entry field Iappears.

In at least one embodiment the display for a display screen on which the scaffold document or the unsigned electronic document appear includes a conventional moveable window that is slidable over the display of the unsigned electronic document to make available for viewing only that portion of the document underlying the region of the window. At least one embodiment includes an actionable link Lthat is displayed to bring the next information entry field to the viewport. In at least one embodiment an actionable link Lis displayed for the incomplete required information entry fields I. In at least one embodiment a visual indicator of the next incomplete required information entry fields Zis displayed for incomplete required information entry fields I. In at least one embodiment the visual indicator of the next incomplete required information entry field Zis displayed for I and includes an actionable link to bring the target information entry field into the viewport for example the visual indicator is an arrow on one side of the display screen which arrow is clickable.

In addition at least one embodiment includes various ways of displaying to one or more signer user what information is entered by one or more of the other signer users. For example the information summary indicator may display to one signer user which information entry fields are completed by the other signer user and which remain incomplete. In this embodiment for example the completed information entry field by one user Cappears as a green box on the unsigned electronic document displayed to a second signer user whereas an incomplete information entry field by one user Iis displayed as a red box on the unsigned electronic document displayed to the second user.

The various methods described above may be embodied in and fully automated by software code modules in some cases for example front end browser code running in a browser executed by one or more general purpose computers tablet computers and or special purpose computers. The code modules may be stored in any type of computer storage device or devices hard disk storage solid state RAM and the like . The steps may be implemented using any type of computer storage device or devices and using any type or types of data repositories relational databases flat files caches and the like to store any data. The flow of data through a network as well as the division and separation of data controlled access to the data by the various parties involved and verification of data over a distributed and or public or private network are considered distinguishing features of the present invention. However these features are not necessarily present in whole or in part in every embodiment nor are they considered the only distinguishing features.

For example in at least one embodiment and referring to a signature field with a zoom on entry feature is provided wherein a signature field along with a displayed portion of an unsigned electronic document or a partially signed electronic document is magnified. This magnification occurs when signature field is selected for entry of any data by a signer user when the unmagnified signature field is deemed or otherwise determined to be too small for the signer user to comfortably see or enter data therein. In some embodiments of the present invention magnification occurs every time a user selects a field. Magnification occurs when the unmagnified signature field into which data is to be entered is clicked on by the signer user using a mouse cursor over the unmagnified signature field by signer user tapping a touchpad touching a touchscreen and or tapping a pen or stylus on a drawing tablet. In some embodiments magnification occurs when a user simply hovers a mouse or other pointing device having a representation on the screen over a field whether or not the field is clicked. Embodiments of the present invention may include one or more zoom on entry activation methods as may be appropriate for the user device or devices being used to display documents or . The zoom on entry feature is provided in some embodiments by front end code sent to the user s browser via the document execution server . In some of these embodiments the size of the user s browser window is used to determine the amount of magnification provided and or the size of the entry field provided to the user. Thus the zoom amount in some embodiments need not be fixed magnification and the browser software and associated processor performs the mathematics needed to perform the zoom feature. One non exclusive example of a front end language suitable for use in writing such applications for browsers is J a product available from Oracle America Inc. Corporation Delaware 500 Oracle Parkway Redwood Shores Calif. 94065.

When the zoom on entry feature is activated the display of document or including the signature field is zoomed to a comfortable magnification for entry of the data into the signature field . For example in an embodiment in which typed text is to be entered into a signature field the document or and the signature field are zoomed so that typed data appears at least at a point size deemed viewable in the smallest size display screen that a signer user is anticipated to use. The point size can be parameterized. For example in some embodiments information about the actual size of display screen or information from which the actual screen size may be determined is sent to the document execution server before the document or is sent to the user. In this manner for example a document or suitable for displaying and signing on a so called smart phone may be zoomed to a different factor than one appearing on a moderate size tablet computer or a full screen laptop or desktop computer. This information can frequently be determined or at least intelligently estimated by a browser and or operating system identification string sent to the document server upon the initial request for the document. In many instances parameterization of the smallest point size will allow a smart phone application to enlarge the input field but prevent a full size laptop or desktop display from being enlarged uncomfortably and or unnecessarily.

In some embodiments the smallest point size is set globally by the service provider e.g. the provider of the document execution server . In other embodiments the smallest point size is set per document or per document type e.g. in the document library shown in or even per signer user or per signature field by the composer of the scaffold electronic document . In still other embodiments a global setting by the service provider is used unless overridden by the composer of the scaffold electronic document . In yet other embodiments some or all smallest point sizes are set by default but are overridden by more specific document user or signature field settings.

In some embodiments of the present invention to return to the pre zoomed magnification and referring to a virtual button i.e. a GUI button or other type of active region is provided. This virtual button helps ensure that accidental mouse clicks finger touches etc. do not cause the display of electronic document or to revert back to an unviewable text size and or terminate input prematurely. A virtual button for returning to the pre zoomed magnification is particularly useful because it allows a signer user to return to his or her own selected magnification. Pressing on the virtual button permits further reading or scanning of the document or without having to scroll or otherwise press several buttons to return to the same pre data entry magnification preferred by the signer user for that purpose. In the embodiment represented by virtual button is a button labeled signed to prompt the signer user to click on the button when he or she is finished entering data into the signature field . However the use of different labels is contemplated when appropriate for other signature fields . In the embodiment represented by for example a second virtual button labeled zoom out is provided on the display screen GUI. This zoom out button can be used as an escape in the event the signer user does not intend or decides not to sign a particular signature field perhaps because he or she activated the zoom on entry feature by accident. In some embodiments in which zoom occurs simply by hovering a pointer over a field the field is returned to its pre zoomed magnification when the pointer is moved and no longer hovering over the field. In other embodiments the field is returned to its pre zoomed magnification occurs clicking or touching anywhere outside of the pre zoomed magnification field. In some embodiments the field is returned to its pre zoomed magnification when for example the browser front end code supplied by the document execution server running on the user s browser apparatus determines that the field has been completed e.g. the tenth digit is entered in a phone number field or a signature was drawn in a signature box .

The use of a virtual button in some embodiments of the present invention facilitates non text entry such as freehand drawings or hand written signatures into a signature field but is not required in all embodiments of the present invention. For example one might expect that pressing or taping a pen or stylus or even a finger on a touchscreen outside of a signature field would have the effect of zooming or moving the document or . However in one embodiment that requires that the virtual button be pressed instead a signature or other drawing will not be prematurely terminated if the signature or drawing inadvertently extends beyond the boundary of the signature field while it is being entered.

In some embodiments of the present invention a mouse click or the push of a physical button of a touchpad a drawing pad or a stylus or a pen used with a drawing pad is programmed to perform the same function as the pressing of the virtual button .

For example and referring to in one embodiment of the present inventive method a signer user is provided with a browser apparatus communicatively coupled to a document execution server via a network such as the Internet . The coupling may utilize any known coupling means such as Ethernet fiber or radio. Non exclusive examples of browser apparatus include a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer or a smartphone including a display screen a pointing apparatus capable of manipulating a virtual button on display screen such as a mouse trackball or stylus and stylus pad or a touch sensitive portion of display screen which may be the entire display screen . Browser apparatus also includes a data entry apparatus which may be integral to the display screen such as the touch sensitive display screen itself a virtual keyboard or writing area of display screen a separate device such as a computer keyboard or a device that comprises the stylus and stylus pad and a processor with or in communication with non transient memory that is configured to execute a browsing program.

It will be appreciated that configurations of the zoom on entry feature can be used for any of various types of electronic documents having entry fields.

It is also to be observed that the zoom on entry feature can be embodied as a software and or hardware module either in the document execution server or in a document or sent or emailed to a signer user . For example and referring back to in at least one embodiment HTML code embedded within the document or is provided that sends information regarding the portion of document or being displayed along with information regarding mouse clicks screen touches and or pen or stylus touches or clicks to the document execution server . The document execution server is responsive to such information to send a new view of the document or to the computer or other display device used by the signer user. This new view is one that zooms into the signature field if information regarding the currently displayed document indicates that the display of the signature field and the displayed document portion around it should be zoomed. Prior to zooming in a cookie is set in at least one embodiment to preserve information about the pre zoomed state of the document or . The display code sent to the signer user includes a graphical user interface GUI button that is responsive to user input e.g. a mouse click a screen touch or a pen or stylus click on a tablet computer to restore the screen zoom prior to the occurrence of the zoom based upon the value of the cookie. In at least one embodiment the information in the cookie is sent directly to the document execution server and the information saved by the cookie is used directly by the document server to restore the pre zoomed state. Also in at least one embodiment the information in the cookie is used by the signer user s browser to restore the pre zoomed state.

In at least one embodiment the document or received by the signer user includes embedded HTML Javascript and or Java code or some other suitable front end code executable in a web browser or the display program or plug in that is being used to display the document at the signer user s own display screen . The user s computer phone or table computer is used to execute this code locally in order to zoom in and to zoom back out.

Thus in one embodiment of the invention and referring now to a method is provided for electronic document handling utilizing a browser apparatus communicatively coupled to a document execution server the browser apparatus including a display screen a pointing apparatus a data entry apparatus a processor and non transient memory configured to execute a browsing program on processor . The method starts at box and includes at box downloading an unsigned electronic document from the document execution server to the browser apparatus At box the method further includes downloading a front end program including zoom instructions from the document execution server to the browser apparatus wherein the front end program is either separate from or part of the unsigned electronic document. The method further includes displaying at box the unsigned electronic document on the display screen of the browser apparatus using the browsing program within the browser apparatus wherein displaying the unsigned electronic document includes displaying fields to be filled in by the operator of the browser apparatus using the pointing apparatus and the data entry apparatus . Also included in the method at box is running the front end program downloaded from the document execution server to zoom into or out of at least one of the displayed fields.

In some embodiments of the present invention running the front end program to zoom into or out of at least one of the displayed fields at box further comprises zooming the at least one of the displayed fields when the pointing apparatus is hovered over the field. Also in some embodiments of the present invention running the front end program to zoom into or out of at least one of the displayed fields at box further comprises providing a button such as virtual button on the display screen and zooming out of zoomed displayed field when the button is pressed.

In some embodiments of the present invention zooming out of a zoomed displayed field at box comprises zooming out to an original magnification i.e. using the magnification of the screen at a time immediately before a zoom occurs.

Also in some embodiments of the present invention the displayed field is a field into which a drawing or signature is entered and zooming out of the displayed field comprises inhibiting the zooming out of the displayed field until a virtual button is pressed to prevent premature termination of the entry of the drawing or the signature.

In yet further embodiments of the present invention zooming into at least one of the displayed fields in box comprises the browser apparatus determining a size of the browsing window and zooming in by a factor dependent upon the size of the browsing window. Also in some embodiments zooming into at least one of the displayed fields comprises zooming in by at least one factor dependent upon either or both of a predetermined fixed width supplied by the front end code and a size of the displayed field to be filled in.

Some embodiments of the present invention comprise a browser apparatus that is configured to perform the inventive steps of the preceding methods. It will be understood that the configuration of browser apparatus to perform such steps may comprise selecting a processor and a program to run in non transient memory that instructs browser apparatus to perform the necessary steps using processor to run the program. In some embodiments a program running in browser apparatus includes a front end program downloaded from document execution server and these embodiments may exist only after the front end program is downloaded.

While the invention has been described in terms of various specific embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with various modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention. Also embodiments which do not provide all of the benefits and features set forth herein are also considered within the scope of this invention even though they include only some but not necessarily all of the features and methods described herein and are not specifically described herein. More particularly various combinations of features described herein are all contemplated as being possible unless otherwise explicitly excluded or the features are physically impossible to combine. Upon gaining an understanding of the present invention by reference to this disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art could select subsets and supersets of features disclosed herein to make additional embodiments that would thus be considered to be embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

