---

title: Systems and methods for configuring an electronic device
abstract: A method for configuring a device is performed at a target device with a processor and memory storing instructions for execution by the processor. In some implementations, the target device is a media presentation device, such as a WiFi enabled speaker system. Connection information is received from a configuration device, such as a laptop computer or mobile telephone, via an analog audio interface. The connection information includes first account credentials. In some implementations, the connection information also includes network configuration data such as a name of wireless network and a security key. The target device connects to a server system remote from the target device using the first account credentials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380059&OS=09380059&RS=09380059
owner: SPOTIFY AB
number: 09380059
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20131016
---
This application claims priority and benefit to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 891 724 entitled Systems And Methods For Configuring An Electronic Device filed Oct. 16 2013 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed implementations relate generally to configuring an electronic device and more specifically to providing connection information to a target device.

Increasingly modern electronic devices are able to connect to and communicate with other devices via wired or wireless communication paths. For example many electronic devices include communication capabilities for communicating with other devices through the Internet local area networks LANs peer to peer networks and the like. However these devices must be configured in order to join the networks and or establish communications with other devices. For example in order for a device to connect to a WiFi network it may be necessary to select an available WiFi network and provide a security key. Further in order for a device to communicate with and receive content from other devices such as a cloud based media content provider the device may need account credentials authorization tokens or other information in order to log in to or access the other devices. But it can be difficult to input network configuration data and account credentials into devices that have limited or no user interface components such as those without a screen or a keyboard.

The various implementations described herein relate to using a configuration device to configure certain aspects of a target device. For example a target device such as a WiFi enabled speaker system may require wireless network configuration data in order to connect to a wireless network and account credentials in order to connect to and receive media content from a remote content server. Thus in some implementations described herein a configuration device sends network configuration data and account credentials e.g. a username and a password to the target device. The target device in turn uses the information from the configuration device to connect to the WiFi network and or a remote server.

In some implementations connection information is stored on the configuration device and is sent to the target device without requiring the user to enter or re enter the information. For example account credentials for a media content provider may have been previously input into an application on the configuration device to allow the application to access the media content provider. These account credentials can then be retrieved from the application and provided to the target device. Similarly network information e.g. security and or encryption type a WiFi service set identifier SSID and security key that is stored in the configuration device e.g. so that the configuration device itself can connect to the network can be retrieved from the configuration device and provided to the target device. Alternatively account credentials and network configuration data can be manually input by the user if they have not yet been stored on or are otherwise inaccessible to the configuration device. Thus configuration settings can be provided to a target device quickly and easily even if the target device does not have a user interface or has a user interface with which it would be cumbersome to input such configuration settings.

In some implementations connection information such as account credentials and network configuration data is sent from a configuration device to a target device via an audio interface. Various techniques may be used to transmit data in this way such as by encoding the connection information into a sound that is emitted by the configuration device e.g. with a speaker and received by the target device e.g. with a microphone . As another example the configuration device can embed the connection information into an analog carrier signal and send the signal to the target device using audio ports on both devices that are configured for sending and receiving analog audio signals e.g. headphone and line in ports .

In addition to sending connection information to target devices configuration devices can also be used as remote controls for the target device performing a range of media control functions. For example a mobile phone an example of a configuration device can be used to browse for select and control playback of music at a separate speaker system. But different users may wish to control the speaker system with their own remote control devices and may wish to access a streaming media service using their own account. This way the user can access his or her own playlists radio stations track listening history and other user specific or account specific information. Also some media content providers are able to share information about a user s media consumption to a social network such as when a user configures a media content provider to share the user s current music selections with a group of friends on a social networking site such as FACEBOOK.

Accordingly in some implementations a target device stores account credentials of various users e.g. users who have provided their account information to the target device via a pairing procedure or otherwise . Then when media control requests are received from a remote control device e.g. a mobile phone tablet etc. the target device identifies the account credentials of the user and provides the account credentials or any unique identifier of the user to a media content provider when executing the media control request.

A method is provided for configuring a device. The method is performed at a target device with a processor and memory storing instructions for execution by the processor. The method includes receiving connection information from a configuration device via an analog audio interface the connection information including first account credentials and connecting to a server system remote from the target device using the first account credentials. In some implementations the connection information further includes network configuration data the method further comprising connecting to a network using the network configuration data.

In some implementations connecting to the server system comprises providing the first account credentials to the server system and establishing an authorized session between the target device and the server system.

In some implementations the analog audio interface includes an audio input component coupled to the target device.

In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a microphone and receiving the connection information includes detecting sound emitted by the configuration device.

In some implementations the configuration information is steganographically embedded into the sound emitted by the configuration device. In various implementations the sound is a song a musical scale etc.

In some implementations the sound emitted by the configuration device is a sequence of tones the sequence of tones including tones of a first pitch and or duration and tones of a second pitch and or duration wherein tones of the first pitch and or duration represent a numeric value of 0 and tones of the second pitch and or duration represent a numeric value of 1.

In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a tip ring sleeve TRS connector and receiving the connection information includes receiving via the TRS connector an analog carrier signal emitted by the configuration device. In some implementations the analog carrier signal includes digitized data corresponding to the connection information.

In some implementations the method further includes extracting the connection information by demodulating the received analog carrier signal.

In some implementations the network configuration data is manually entered at the configuration device by a user. In some implementations the network configuration data is acquired from a network configuration setting of the configuration device.

In some implementations the network configuration data includes an identifier of a wireless network. In some implementations the identifier is a service set identifier SSID .

In some implementations the network configuration data includes a security key associated with the wireless network.

In some implementations the network configuration data corresponds to network configuration data of a network to which the configuration device is connected.

In some implementations the first account credentials include an account identifier and a password. In some implementations the first account credentials correspond to account credentials stored on the configuration device in association with an application on the configuration device.

In some implementations the target device is configured to receive media content from the server system.

In some implementations the method further includes receiving media content from the server system and presenting the media content wherein the first account credentials authorize the target device to receive the media content from the server system.

In some implementations the media content is audio content and the target device is a speaker system and or a stereo system.

In some implementations the method further includes determining if the target device is coupled to a communications network upon determining that the target device is not coupled to the communications network requesting network configuration data from the configuration device and receiving the network configuration data from the configuration device.

In some implementations the method further includes receiving a plurality of account credentials the plurality of account credentials including the first account credentials receiving a media control request including information identifying particular account credentials of the plurality of account credentials and sending a server media control request to the server the server media control request including the information identifying the particular account credentials.

In some implementations respective ones of the plurality of account credentials are stored in association with respective unique user identifiers and wherein the information identifying the particular account credentials is one of the unique user identifiers. In some implementations the unique user identifiers are media access control MAC addresses.

In some implementations the method further includes receiving media content from the configuration device via the analog audio interface and presenting the media content.

A method is provided for configuring a device. The method is performed at a configuration device with a processor and memory storing instructions for execution by the processor. The method includes acquiring account credentials associated with an application stored on the configuration device acquiring network configuration data corresponding to a network to which the configuration device is connected and sending the account credentials and the network configuration data to a target device.

In some implementations the method further includes receiving a request from a user to send the network configuration data and the account credentials to the target device and sending the network configuration data and the account credentials to the target device in response to the request.

In some implementations the application is a media player application that is configured to receive media from one or more remote sources.

In some implementations the sending including sending the account credentials and the network configuration data to the target device via an analog audio interface. In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a speaker and sending the account credentials and the network configuration data to the target device includes emitting sound with the speaker.

In some implementations the method includes steganographically embedding the account credentials and the network configuration data into the sound for emission by the speaker. In some implementations the sound emitted by the configuration device is a song and or a musical scale.

In some implementations the method includes encoding the network configuration data and the account credentials into a bitstream. In some implementations the sound emitted by the configuration device is a sequence of tones corresponding to the bitstream the sequence of tones including tones of a first pitch and or duration and tones of a second pitch and or duration wherein tones of the first pitch and or duration represent a numeric value of 0 and tones of the second pitch and or duration represent a numeric value of 1.

In some implementations the method includes modulating an analog carrier signal to encode the bitstream into the analog carrier signal. In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a tip ring sleeve TRS connector and sending the account credentials and the network configuration data to the target device includes sending the analog carrier signal including the encoded bitstream via the TRS connector.

In some implementations the configuration device is selected from the group consisting of a mobile phone a speaker system a stereo a computer and a digital media player.

In some implementations the target device is selected from the group consisting of a mobile phone a speaker system a stereo a computer and a digital media player.

In accordance with some implementations a computer readable storage medium e.g. a non transitory computer readable storage medium is provided the computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs for execution by one or more processors or cores of an electronic device the one or more programs including instructions for performing any of the methods described herein.

In accordance with some implementations an electronic device is provided that comprises means for performing any of the methods described herein.

In accordance with some implementations an electronic device is provided that comprises a processing unit configured to perform any of the methods described herein.

In accordance with some implementations an electronic device is provided that comprises one or more processors or cores and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors or cores the one or more programs including instructions for performing any of the methods described herein.

In accordance with some implementations an information processing apparatus for use in an electronic device is provided the information processing apparatus comprising means for performing any of the methods described herein.

Attention is now directed to the figures and in particular to which is a block diagram of a client server environment according to some implementations. The client server environment includes a client environment and a server system that are connected through a network . In some implementations the client environment includes two or more electronic devices e.g. the first electronic device and the second electronic device . For simplicity only one first electronic device and one second electronic device are shown though the client environment may have more first and second electronic devices. In some implementations the server system is associated with a media content provider with which users may have accounts that enable the user to access media content from the server system .

The network includes any of a variety of networks including wide area networks WAN local area networks LAN wireless networks wired networks the Internet or a combination of such networks.

In some implementations the client environment includes a first electronic device and a second electronic device . In some implementations the first and the second electronic devices are devices selected from the group consisting of desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers mobile electronic devices mobile phones digital media players WiFi enabled speaker systems home audio visual systems e.g. stereos home audio visual receivers or any other appropriate electronic devices. The first electronic device is also referred to herein as a configuration device and the second electronic device is also referred to herein as a target device.

In some implementations both the first electronic device and the second electronic device are on the same local network that allows devices within the client environment to communicate to one another.

In some implementations the first electronic device includes a media content presentation and control application hereinafter media application . The media application is able to control the presentation of media at the first electronic device . For example the media application enables a user to navigate media content items select media content items for playback on the electronic device create and edit playlists etc. In some implementations media content is stored on the first electronic device . In some implementations the media content is also or instead stored on a server system located remotely from the first electronic device . Media content can be downloaded or streamed from the server system to the first electronic device over the network .

In some implementations the media content streamed from the server system is temporarily stored cached at the first electronic device in a media content buffer in the memory of the first electronic device . In some implementations media content stored in the media content buffer is removed after the media content is presented at the first electronic device allowing new media content data to be stored in the buffer . In other implementations at least some of the media content stored in the media content buffer is retained for a predetermined amount of time after the content is presented at the first electronic device and or until other predetermined conditions are satisfied.

In some implementations the media application also communicates with the second electronic device to provide connection information to the second electronic device including for example account credentials and network configuration data. In some implementations the media application communicates with the second electronic device using analog audio interfaces of the first electronic device and the second electronic device . Systems and methods for providing connection information to the second electronic device from the first electronic device are discussed herein.

In some implementations the media application performs operations for acquiring connection information from the first electronic device or from a user. For example connection information may be retrieved by the media application from storage on the first electronic device for provisioning to the second electronic device .

Various techniques may be used to obtain network information from the first electronic device depending on the type of operating system of that device. For example the information may be retrieved by reading the contents of a file e.g. a configuration file stored in memory on the first electronic device or by executing an application programming interface API command a program a script or any other command that will identify or retrieve the network information. As specific examples if the operating system of the first electronic device is an ANDROID operating system the network information may be retrieved from the file data misc wifi wpa supplicant.conf . If the operating system is APPLE s IOS the network information may be retrieved by executing an appropriate API command. If the operating system is APPLE s MAC OS the network information may be retrieved using a KEYCHAIN command to retrieve a WiFi security key and or using the airport I command to retrieve an SSID . If the operating system is MICROSOFT s WINDOWS XP the network information may be retrieved by executing a script e.g. a VBSCRIPT that will return the desired information. If the operating system is a GNU LINUX operating system the network information may be retrieved by executing an iwgetid command and or using the gnome keyring manager program.

In some implementations the media application retrieves and provides to the second electronic device information that is associated with the application itself. For example the media application retrieves and provides to the second electronic device account credentials e.g. a username and or account name and a password that are used by the media application to connect to another electronic device e.g. the server associated with the media content provider . As another example the media application retrieves and provides to the second electronic device an authorization token e.g. a random or pseudorandom string associated with the media application and or a user of the media application . The authorization token may be generated by a server e.g. the server system associated with the media content provider and received at the media application for example in response to a successful login by a user.

In some implementations instead of retrieving stored connection information from the operating system or the media application the media application prompts the user to provide the connection information manually.

In some implementations the media application is also able to control media content presentation at the second electronic device . Thus the media application allows the first electronic device to act as a media presentation device a configuration device and a remote control for other media presentation devices.

The client server environment also includes a server system associated with a media content provider . In some implementations the server system includes a media streaming module a media content database and a context database . The media content database stores media content that can be presented by an electronic device. For example in some implementations the media content database stores audio e.g. music audiobooks etc. video e.g. movies television shows etc. images or other content that can be streamed and or otherwise transmitted to other electronic devices. In some implementations the media content database includes data stored in different formats and file types to allow a variety of different devices and or applications to receive streamed content. In some implementations the data is stored in a single file format and is converted transcribed to the appropriate data type before or as it is streamed to a remote device.

In some implementations the server system includes a media streaming module . The media streaming module receives media control requests from an electronic device and in response streams and or otherwise transmits media content to either the requesting device or another device. These and other techniques for controlling media presentation are discussed in greater detail in U.S. application Ser. No. 13 784 704 entitled Systems and Methods for Multi Path Control Signals for Media Presentation Devices filed on Mar. 4 2013 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The media application includes account credentials including for example a username and a password. The account credentials authorize the media application to access a media content server and to control the transmission of media content therefrom. The network communication module includes network configuration data including for example an SSID and a network security key. Network configuration data may also or alternatively be stored on and or in association with the operating system of the first electronic device . The network configuration data can be used by the first electronic device to connect to a wireless communications network e.g. a local area network .

The first electronic device also includes an analog audio interface described herein with reference to . The analog audio interface includes hardware and or software for outputting analog audio signals as well as encoding embedding information in the analog audio signal. For example in some implementations the analog audio interface includes a speaker for outputting sounds that include encoded embedded information to be received by a target device. Techniques for encoding embedding the account credentials and the network configuration data into analog audio signals and sending them via an analog audio interface are discussed herein.

The second electronic device also includes an analog audio interface described herein with reference to with which the second electronic device receives the account credentials and or the network configuration data from the first electronic device . The analog audio interface includes hardware and or software for receiving analog audio signals as well as for decoding extracting information from the analog audio signal. For example in some implementations the analog interface includes a microphone for receiving an analog audio signal from a configuration device such as the first electronic device .

Account credentials received from one or more first electronic devices are stored in the account credential database in the second electronic device . Also the network configuration data is stored in or stored for access by the network communication module and or in association with an operating system of the second electronic device . The account credential database and the network communication module are described herein with reference to . In some implementations the second electronic device uses the network configuration data to connect to a communications network e.g. a wireless network and or uses the account credentials to establish an authorized communications session with a remote server e.g. the server system .

Memory includes high speed random access memory such as DRAM SRAM DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices and may include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices optical disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state storage devices. Memory may optionally include one or more storage devices remotely located from the CPU s . Memory or alternately the non volatile memory device s within memory includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium. In some implementations memory or the computer readable storage medium of memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof 

In some implementations the first electronic device is a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile electronic device a mobile phone a digital media player a WiFi speaker system or a home audio visual system e.g. a stereo home audio visual receiver .

The first electronic device typically includes one or more CPUs one or more network interfaces memory and one or more communication buses for interconnecting these components. The first electronic device includes an I O interface . The I O interface couples input output devices of the first electronic device such as displays microphones speakers keyboards mice buttons and touch screens to the I O interface module . The I O interface in conjunction with the I O interface module receives user inputs e.g. voice input keyboard inputs touch inputs etc. and processes them accordingly.

The first electronic device also includes an analog audio interface . The analog audio interface includes hardware and or software for outputting and or receiving analog audio signals as well as for encoding embedding information in and or decoding extracting information from an analog audio signal. In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a speaker a microphone and or a transducer.

In some implementations the analog audio interface includes physical connectors and or sockets for making wired connections to other devices e.g. the second electronic device . Examples of physical connectors include tip ring sleeve plugs sockets e.g. 3.5 mm audio connectors universal serial bus USB connectors modular connector plugs sockets e.g. RJ45 or RJ11 connectors and the like. In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a modulator and or demodulator e.g. a modem and or other components for processing analog audio signals to encode embed information in and or decode extract information from the analog audio signal.

Memory includes high speed random access memory such as DRAM SRAM DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices and may include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices optical disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state storage devices. Memory may optionally include one or more storage devices remotely located from the CPU s . Memory or alternately the non volatile memory device s within memory includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium. In some implementations memory or the computer readable storage medium of memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof 

In some implementations the first electronic device includes a subset of the components and modules shown in . Moreover in some implementations the first electronic device includes additional components and or modules not shown in .

The second electronic device also includes an analog audio interface . The analog audio interface includes hardware and or software for outputting and or receiving analog audio signals as well as for encoding embedding information in and or decoding extracting information from the analog audio signal. In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a speaker a microphone and or a transducer. In some implementations the analog audio interface includes physical connectors for making wired connections to other devices e.g. the first electronic device . Examples of physical connectors include tip ring sleeve plugs sockets e.g. 3.5 mm audio connectors universal serial bus USB connectors modular connector plugs sockets e.g. RJ45 or RJ11 connectors and the like. In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a modulator and or demodulator e.g. a modem and or other components for processing analog audio signals to encode embed information in and or decode extract information from the analog audio signal.

Memory includes high speed random access memory such as DRAM SRAM DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices and may include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices optical disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state storage devices. Memory may optionally include one or more storage devices remotely located from the CPU s . Memory or alternately the non volatile memory device s within memory includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium. In some implementations memory or the computer readable storage medium of memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof 

In some implementations the second electronic device includes a subset of the components and modules shown in . Moreover in some implementations the second electronic device includes additional components and or modules not shown in .

With reference to a target device e.g. the second electronic device receives connection information from a configuration device e.g. the first electronic device via an analog audio interface wherein the connection information includes first account credentials .

As noted above the connection information includes first account credentials. In some implementations the first account credentials include an account identifier e.g. a username email address or any unique identifier of a user account and a password .

In some implementations the first account credentials correspond to account credentials stored on the configuration device in association with an application on the configuration device . For example the account credentials may be those stored in association with a media application on the configuration device e.g. the media application and used to authorize the media application to receive media content from a media content provider. More specifically the configuration device may be a mobile phone with a media application with which a user receives media content and the account credentials are the username and password that are associated with the media application in order to authorize access to the content provider.

In some implementations the connection information includes network configuration data . The network configuration data is discussed herein.

As noted above with respect to step the connection information is received at the target device via an analog audio interface e.g. the analog audio interface . Analog audio interfaces include hardware and or software for outputting and or receiving analog audio signals as well as for encoding embedding information in and or decoding extracting information from the analog audio signal. Analog audio signals received via the analog audio interface may take several different forms. For example the analog audio signal may be audible sound e.g. propagating air pressure waves an ultrasonic or subsonic signal e.g. propagating air pressure waves above or below the audible range an electrical analog carrier signal e.g. where the voltage current and or frequency of an electrical signal is varied to convey information and the like.

In some implementations the analog audio interface includes an audio input component coupled to the target device. For example in some implementations the analog audio interface includes a microphone and receiving the connection information includes detecting sound emitted by the configuration device . One advantage of this technique is that microphones are already found on many electrical devices and or can be easily and inexpensively incorporated into electrical devices.

In some implementations the connection information is steganographically embedded by the configuration device into the sound emitted by the configuration device . In some implementations the sound is a song a sequence of notes and or tones a musical scale spoken words white noise or the like. Examples of techniques for embedding information into an audio signal are discussed for example in Techniques for Data Hiding by Walter Bender et al. in IBM Systems Journal Vol. 35 p. 313 1996 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Connection information can also be encoded into the audio signal by the configuration device by converting the connection information into a bitstream e.g. using a character encoding scheme and generating the audio signal as a sequence of tones representing the digits of the bitstream. Specifically in some implementations the sound emitted by the configuration device is a sequence of tones that includes tones of a first frequency i.e. pitch and tones of a second frequency where tones of the first frequency represent a numeric value of 0 and tones of the second frequency represent a numeric value of 1 . In some implementations the sound emitted by the configuration device is a sequence of tones that includes tones of a first duration and tones of a second duration wherein tones of the first duration represent a numeric value of 0 and tones of the second duration represent a numeric value of 1 .

In some implementations the sound emitted by the configuration device is a sequence of tones that includes tones of a first volume and tones of a second volume wherein tones of the first volume represent a numeric value of 0 and tones of the second volume represent a numeric value of 1.

As noted above connection information which is typically represented as alphanumeric characters can be encoded into a bitstream or any other transmissible format as discussed below using a character encoding scheme. A character encoding scheme pairs each character from a given character set with a different representation such as a bit pattern a natural number a sound of a given frequency i.e. pitch duration and or volume etc. Any appropriate character encoding scheme may be used in the implementations described herein. For example connection information may be converted to bit sequences of Morse code American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII Baudot code Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code EBCDIC Unicode etc. Bit sequences for any of these character encoding schemes and others not mentioned can be transmitted over an audio signal as described above e.g. by mapping bits to sounds of different frequency duration and or volume .

Other ways of converting and encoding the connection information into transmissible information are also contemplated. In particular instead of a bitstream i.e. that only includes values representing 0 and 1 the connection information may be converted into a format that can represent more than two different values. For example each of the alphanumeric characters that make up the connection information can be mapped to a sound of different frequency duration and or volume and the corresponding sound can be output to a target device that decodes or otherwise converts the received sound back into alphanumeric characters or any other suitable form . As a specific example the 26 letters of the English alphabet and the 10 single digit integers i.e. 0 9 can be mapped to tones of 36 different frequencies.

In some implementations amplitude modulation and or angle modulation techniques are used to modulate an audible analog carrier frequency to include the connection information. For example an analog carrier signal can be an audible sound or supersonic subsonic frequency or frequency range emitted by the configuration device and received by a target device. In some implementations the analog carrier frequency is modulated to include a bitstream according to a character encoding scheme described above e.g. Morse code ASCII etc. .

In some implementations the analog carrier signal is modulated to include representations of more than two characters. For example in some implementations each of the 36 alphanumeric characters is represented as a different detectable modulation pattern and or sequence. Accordingly the configuration device modulates the carrier signal to include the connection information and a target device receives the analog carrier signal demodulates the signal and extracts the connection information.

Connection information may also be received within an electrical signal using a wired interface. For example in some implementations the analog audio interface includes an electrical connector e.g. for a 3.5 mm tip ring sleeve style audio plug and receiving the connection information includes receiving an analog carrier signal from the configuration device . This technique can also advantageously use analog audio interfaces already found on many exemplary target and configuration devices such as audio output sockets e.g. a headphone socket and audio input sockets e.g. line in audio sockets on computers speaker stereo systems receivers and the like .

As described herein the configuration device can modulate e.g. with a modem an analog carrier signal to encode digital information corresponding to the connection information i.e. using digital modulation . Accordingly in some implementations the target device extracts the connection information by demodulating the received analog carrier signal . Standard modem techniques for modulating and or demodulating an analog carrier signal may be used in various implementations. Examples of digital modulation techniques include phase shift keying frequency shift keying amplitude shift keying on off keying continuous phase modulation orthogonal frequency division multiplexing wavelet modulation trellis coded modulation quadrature amplitude modulation and the like.

Turning to once the connection information including the first account credentials are received the target device connects to a server system remote from the target device using the first account credentials . In some implementations connecting to the server system includes providing the first account credentials to the server system and or otherwise establishing an authorized session between the target device and the server system .

In some implementations the connection information further includes network configuration data which is used by the target device to connect to a communications network such as a Local Area Network and or the Internet. In some implementations the method includes steps and or procedures for receiving network information from a configuration device as described below.

In some cases network configuration data is provided to the target device only when the target device is not already configured to connect or is not already connected to a network. In particular in some implementations the target device determines if it is coupled to a communications network e.g. a LAN the Internet etc. . In some implementations the determination is made when the configuration device connects to or establishes communications with the target device.

Upon determining that the target device is not coupled to the communications network the target device requests network configuration data from the configuration device e.g. by communicating over an analog audio interface as described above . Alternatively n some implementations the target device does not request network configuration data from the configuration device. For example the target device receives the network configuration data e.g. at step even though it did not issue an explicit request to the configuration device for the network configuration information.

Once the target device receives the network configuration data the target device connects to a network using the network configuration data . The network configuration may data include an identifier of a wireless network e.g. a service set identifier SSID a security and or encryption type and or a security key associated with the wireless network e.g. a Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP key a Wi Fi Protected Access WPA key etc. .

In some implementations the network configuration data corresponds to network configuration data of a network to which the configuration device is connected. For example the network configuration data is an SSID and security key of a network to which a mobile phone being used as a configuration device is connected when the phone is being used to configure a WiFi enabled speaker system the target device .

In some implementations the network configuration data is acquired from a network configuration setting of the configuration device. For example the SSID and security key for a wireless network are retrieved from storage an operating system and or a network communication module of the configuration device.

In some implementations the network configuration data is manually entered at the configuration device by a user prior to it being received by the target device. This technique may be used when the configuration device does not have or does not permit access to stored network configuration data.

In some implementations after connecting to the server system e.g. at step the target device receives media content from the server system and presents the media content. For example after logging in to the server with the account credentials the target device receives streaming music from the server which is associated with a media content provider and presents the music to the user via speakers. Other media content e.g. audio books podcasts radio stations etc. and other media delivery techniques e.g. download and persistent storage are also possible.

Accordingly turning to in some implementations the target device receives a plurality of account credentials . The plurality of account credentials include the first account credentials identified above. For example several different users may provide account credentials to a target device so that they can each control the target device using their own account identity. As a specific example if the target device is a speaker system in a household individual family members can provide their own account credentials so that they can each control the speaker system via their own account. At least some of the plurality of account credentials are received from one or more electronic devices via an audio interface as described above.

In some implementations the target device receives a media control request including information identifying particular account credentials of the plurality of account credentials where the particular account credentials identify the account to which the device issuing the media control request is currently logged in.

In some implementations the information identifying the particular account credentials includes the account credentials themselves e.g. a username and a password .

In some implementations the information identifying the particular account credentials includes a unique user account or device identifier e.g. a media access control MAC address or IP address of the requesting device which can be used to identify the account credentials in the account credential database with which the media control request is associated.

In some implementations the target device then sends a server media control request to the server where the server media control request includes information identifying the particular account credentials .

With reference to a configuration device e.g. the first electronic device acquires account credentials associated with an application stored on the configuration device . As described above in some implementations the application is a media player application that is configured to receive media from one or more remote sources such as the server system associated with the media content provider .

In some implementations the account credentials correspond to account credentials used by the application to establish an authorized session between the configuration device and a server system . For example the configuration device may be a mobile phone with a media application e.g. the media application that provides access to streaming media content where a user has previously input his or her account credentials into the media application . The configuration device then retrieves the account credentials from the media application and sends them to the target device as discussed below.

The configuration device acquires network configuration data corresponding to a network to which the configuration device is connected . In some implementations the network configuration data is entered at the configuration device by a user e.g. if the configuration device does not permit access to stored network configuration data the user can manually select an SSID and input a security key .

In some implementations the network configuration data is acquired from a network configuration setting of the configuration device . For example the configuration device may be a mobile phone that is configured to connect to a user s home wireless network. The configuration device retrieves the network configuration data that the mobile phone uses to connect to the home wireless network such as from storage an operating system and or a network communication module as described above.

In some implementations the network configuration data includes an identifier of a wireless network e.g. a service set identifier SSID a security and or encryption type and or a security key associated with the wireless network e.g. a Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP key a Wi Fi Protected Access WPA key etc. .

In some implementations the configuration device receives a request from a user to send the network configuration data and the account credentials to the target device . For example a media application on the configuration device may provide an affordance e.g. a button or selectable touchscreen element that when selected by the user causes one or both of the network configuration data and the account credentials to be sent to the target device.

Turning to the configuration device sends the account credentials and the network configuration data i.e. connection information to a target device . In some implementations the target device is the second electronic device . The target device is a digital media player a WiFi enabled speaker system a home audio visual system e.g. a stereo home audio visual receiver or any other appropriate electronic device.

In some implementations the account credentials and the network configuration data are sent to the target device via an analog audio interface . In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a speaker and sending the account credentials and the network configuration data to the target device includes emitting sound with the speaker .

As described above with reference to the method in some implementations the configuration device steganographically embeds the account credentials and the network configuration data into the sound for emission by the speaker . Also as described in some implementations the sound is a song a sequence of notes and or tones a musical scale spoken words white noise or the like. Examples of techniques for embedding information into an audio signal are discussed for example in Techniques for Data Hiding by Walter Bender et al. in IBM Systems Journal Vol. 35 p. 313 1996 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some implementations the configuration device digitizes the connection information by encoding the network configuration data and the account credentials into a bitstream . Accordingly as described above with reference to the method the connection information can be sent to the target device by emitting sounds that include and or represent the bitstream . For example a sequence of tones including tones of a first pitch and tones of a second pitch wherein tones of the first pitch represent a numeric value of 0 and tones of the second pitch represent a numeric value of 1 or a sequence of tones including tones of a first duration and tones of a second duration wherein tones of the first duration represent a numeric value of 0 and tones of the second duration represent a numeric value of 1.

In some implementations the configuration device modulates an analog carrier signal to encode the bitstream into the analog carrier signal e.g. with a modem . In some implementations the analog audio interface includes a tip ring sleeve TRS connector and sending the account credentials and the network configuration data to the target device includes sending the analog carrier signal including the encoded bitstream via the TRS connector . The analog carrier signal may be sent to the target device via an electrical cable and the bitstream may be decoded from the signal using a modem at the target device. The target device may then use the connection information to connect to a network and or otherwise establish an authorized session with a remote server system.

Additional descriptions of techniques for encoding and or modulating connection information into audio and electrical signals are described above with respect to and apply equally to the techniques and or methods described with respect to .

The methods illustrated in may be governed by instructions that are stored in a computer readable storage medium and that are executed by at least one processor of at least one server. Each of the operations shown in may correspond to instructions stored in a non transitory computer memory or computer readable storage medium. In various implementations the non transitory computer readable storage medium includes a magnetic or optical disk storage device solid state storage devices such as Flash memory or other non volatile memory device or devices. The computer readable instructions stored on the non transitory computer readable storage medium may be in source code assembly language code object code or other instruction format that is interpreted and or executable by one or more processors or cores .

Plural instances may be provided for components operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Finally boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of the implementation s . In general structures and functionality presented as separate components in the example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the implementation s .

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first contact could be termed a second contact and similarly a second contact could be termed a first contact which changing the meaning of the description so long as all occurrences of the first contact are renamed consistently and all occurrences of the second contact are renamed consistently. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts but they are not the same contact.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the claims. As used in the description of the implementations and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or in response to detecting that a stated condition precedent is true depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined that a stated condition precedent is true or if a stated condition precedent is true or when a stated condition precedent is true may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or in accordance with a determination or upon detecting or in response to detecting that the stated condition precedent is true depending on the context.

The foregoing description included example systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative implementations. For purposes of explanation numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide an understanding of various implementations of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that implementations of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific implementations. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The implementations were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the implementations and various implementations with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

