---

title: Energy smart system
abstract: Apparatus and method for managing energy of a home or other structure are disclosed. An energy management system for a home network comprises a central device controller configured to communicate with energy consuming devices, energy generation devices and storage devices at a home. Power/energy measuring devices provide consumption measurements for the home and each device to the controller. A user interface has a client application configured to provide information to a user/consumer and to an energy provider/utility about energy consumption, energy generation and storage. An energy profile and a carbon footprint of an individual's home are generated along with recommendations for energy savings and/or possible addition of on site generation or energy storage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218632&OS=09218632&RS=09218632
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09218632
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130919
---
The present application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 12 873 386 filed Sep. 1 2010 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to energy management and more particularly to electrical device control methods and electrical energy consumption systems. The disclosure finds particular application to energy management of energy consuming devices or appliances for example dishwashers clothes washers dryers HVAC systems etc.

In order to reduce high peak power demand many utilities have instituted time of use TOU metering and rates which include higher rates for energy usage during on peak times and lower rates for energy usage during off peak times. Other dynamic rate scenarios include critical peak pricing day ahead hourly rates and even real time rates based on wholesale electric rates charged by the Utilities Regional Transmission Organizations RTO Independent System Operators ISO . As a result consumers are provided with an incentive to use electricity at off peak times rather than on peak times and to reduce overall energy consumption of appliances at all times. In addition Utilities Regional Transmission Organizations RTO Independent System Operators ISO and third party aggregators may be willing to provide payments to consumers for short term reductions in load to provide ancillary services such as providing additional spinning reserves capacity or frequency regulation.

Utility power systems become smart and demand response enabled by employing a head end management system such as a company or program responsible for monitoring and running a demand response program. This usually requires equipment and time investments by utilities to install automatic meter reading AMR systems advanced metering infrastructure or other types of smart utility meters in each home. AMR systems for example provide for automatically collecting and holding consumption diagnostic and status data from water meter or energy metering devices e.g. for water gas or electricity and transferring that data wirelessly to a meter reader when queried by the meter reader. Advanced metering infrastructure AMI represents the application of networking technology to read and manage meter systems that go beyond AMR. These AMI systems enable remote and automatic reading of the meter data and transmitting it back to a central database for billing troubleshooting and analysis. In addition the AMI system can remotely disconnect meters as well as report outages when meters are no longer responding due to a localized power failure. The meters in an AMI system are often referred to as smart meters since they can use and analyze the collected meter data based on programmed logic.

Smart grid applications improve the ability of electricity producers and consumers to communicate with one another and make decisions about how and when to produce and consume power. Demand response DR technology for example allows customers to shift from an event based demand response where the utility requests the shedding of load towards a more 24 7 based demand response where the customer sees incentives for controlling load all the time such as in providing Ancillary Services. One advantage of a smart grid application is time based pricing. Customers who traditionally pay a fixed rate for kWh and kW month can set their threshold and adjust their usage to take advantage of fluctuating prices. Another advantage is being able to closely monitor shift and balance load in a way that allows the customer to save peak load and not only save on kWh and kW month but also be able to trade what they have saved in an energy market. Similarly the smart grid will allow customers to be paid for supplying Ancillary Services short term reductions in load to provide grid stability due to fluctuating generation sources such as solar and wind capacity as well as normal grid stability needs. However this involves sophisticated energy management systems incentives and a viable trading market.

When TOU or DR events are ended it is possible that a number of users turning appliances on at the same time can create an initial influx of power that is up to several times the normal load on a power grid. This initial influx could compromise a power grid as well as cause it to be fully loaded and thus cause a reduction or shut off in power temporarily e.g. brown outs or black outs . In addition expenditures to run outside peak plants are costly and may not be as environmentally friendly.

Therefore there is a need to provide an improved system that can enable control when power consuming devices are started after and or before a DR event or TOU event and thus provide incentive for discretional power use to be moved into the off peak timeframe so consumers can balance their level of comfort with a desired savings amount.

The present disclosure enables energy consumers to maintain comfort reduce and shift energy usage and costs by providing methods systems and devices for appliances and other home loads such as HVAC Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning systems pool pumps electric vehicle charging etc.

In one embodiment an energy management system for a home network comprising managed energy consuming devices respectively drawing different amounts of power in a home is provided. The energy management system is a home energy manager system comprising a central controller or central device controller with a memory. The controller is in communication with the managed energy consuming devices that respectively comprise a device controller. At least one power energy measuring devices is in communication with the controller and the managed devices and configured to provide a total energy power consumption measurement for the home and a power energy consumption measurement for each managed device. A user interface is communicatively coupled to the central controller for providing user information and receiving user commands thereat. The central controller has a processor and at least one transceiver and is configured to monitor and control energy consumption of each of the managed devices and respective components thereof by sending communications to each of the managed devices via the device controller respectively. The central controller provides real time feedback to the user interface display with respect to natural resource use and generation occurring at the home.

According to one aspect an energy management system and method for one or more appliances comprises a controller for managing power consumption within a household or other structure. The controller is configured to receive and process a signal indicative of one or more energy parameters of an associated energy supplying utility including at least a peak demand period or an off peak demand period or other needs such as load reduction for grid stability. The controller is configured to communicate control and or operate one or more appliances in one of a plurality of operating modes including at least a normal operating mode and an energy savings or deferral mode in response to the received signal. The one or more appliances operate in the normal operating mode during the off peak demand period and operate in the energy savings or deferral mode during the peak demand period. The controller is configured to control the transition of the one or more appliances to the normal operating mode and energy savings or deferral mode before the peak demand period begins and after the peak demand period is over based on inputs provided by a user.

In another embodiment a flow meter of an energy management system is configured to measure a flow of natural gas and or water consumption and a solar generation device having a solar power energy measuring device operatively coupled to a central controller. A thermostat controller is coupled to the central controller that is configured to be modified via a client application coupled to the central controller and provide consumption data to the user via a user interface of a client application.

A central controller of an energy management system such as a home energy manager provides homeowners the means to monitor and manage their energy consumption through a combination of behavior modification and programmed control logic. The central controller provides feedback on electricity water and natural gas consumption storage of energy at the home as well as providing data on renewable energy generation occurring at the home such as solar photovoltaic generation wind generation or any other type of renewable generation. This data is presented to a user via a web browser on the homeowner s networked personal computer mobile device or any other client device in a client interface.

For example the central controller provides home data through an application programming interface API such as for a web based application or application on a client device. The central device operates as a data server for providing data in a client application which in turn can be used to present that data to the consumer client such as in graph form with data of historical present energy usage generation and or storage data. The API generates graphs of energy usage generation and or storage on a client device such as a personal computer smart phone or any other remote device in communication with the controller.

In another example data pertaining to the consumer s energy consumption generated energy and or storage is displayed on a user display e.g. LCD touch screen display to present and receive data through a web browser on the homeowner s networked PC or mobile phone. For example energy usage generation and or storage data is displayed on the device s user display e.g. LCD touch screen display and through a web browser on the homeowner s networked PC mobile phone or other device in communication with the central controller.

In one embodiment a ZigBee radio operating as a communication device is implemented to facilitate communicate signals between the central controller and devices within the home while a second radio operates similarly between the central controller and the utility meter such as for demand response event signals price signals. Any communication protocol can be implemented and the present disclosure is not limited to ZigBee as one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate. The central controller therefore is operable as a gateway by caching or storing information from devices within a home such as information pertaining to whether smart appliances are on or off or demand response information from the utility. The central device therefore provides the necessary information from the utility to the appliances appliance microcontrollers for them to operate in accord with the utility signals and or user preferences while aggregating home data about the home and energy use.

Consumption data is measured via sensors located at each of the incoming residential utility meters e.g. water gas electrical meters as well as any on premises generation systems such as wind or solar photovoltaic. This data is collected by radio modules and transmitted wirelessly back to the central device and or to an energy provider. Alternatively the radio modules comprise a power line transceiver sending information to and from each sensor or power energy measuring device each appliance and an energy provider for example.

The central device is designed to accommodate multiple methods of wireless communication. This enables the central device to communicate with the radio modules and also access information from the Internet. The central device has the following wireless capability 802.11 WiFi FM receiver and 802.15.4 compliant ZigBee radios. However there are several ways to accomplish this communication including but not limited to power line carrier PLC also known as power line communication FM AM SSB WiFi ZigBee Radio Broadcast Data System 802.11 802.15.4 etc.

The central controller is located at the consumer s home such as with a home energy manager HEM for example and gathers all home data with respect to energy at the home. For example energy use generation and or storage information is gathered and stored in a home database in a memory of the controller. All of the home data is merged together within the database in order to model an energy profile and a carbon footprint of the consumer s home. Consumers are therefore able to monitor energy of their homes and the energy management system is operable to then make recommendations to the consumers such as improving windows attic insulation and other such recommendations for reducing energy use and an amount of carbon being produced by any one home. Suppliers for energy efficient products regarding reduced usage generation and or storage are also made available to the consumer online over an IP connection.

The energy management system is further designed to integrate with the electrical utilities push towards Demand Side Management DSM also known as Demand Response DR . The central device is capable of receiving electricity rates and schedules from the utility and using that information to implement pre determined load shedding behavior across the whole home electrical load.

The controller is configured to receive a utility signal by a receiver and process the signal indicative of one or more energy parameters and or a utility state of an associated energy supplying utility for example including availability and or current cost of supplied energy or prices signals related to Ancillary Services such as spinning reserve or frequency regulation. There are several ways to accomplish this communication including but not limited to PLC power line carrier also known as power line communication FM AM SSB WiFi ZigBee Radio Broadcast Data System 802.11 802.15.4 etc. The energy signal may be generated by a utility provider such as a power company or energy provider and can be transmitted via a power line as a radio frequency signal or by any other means for transmitting a signal when the utility provider desires to reduce demand for its resources. The cost can be indicative of the state of the demand for the utility s energy for example a relatively high price or cost of supplied energy is typically associated with a peak demand state period and a relative low price or cost is typically associated with an off peak demand state period.

The controller is configured to communicate to control and operate the devices which comprise appliances and or thermostats controllers e.g. a programmable communicating thermostat in one of a plurality of operating modes including at least a normal operating mode and an energy savings or deferral mode in response to the received signal. Specifically each device can be operated in the normal operating mode during the off peak demand state or period and can be operated in the energy savings or deferral mode during the peak demand state or period. Similarly the appliances can respond to signals related to providing Ancillary Services. As will be discussed in greater detail below the controller is configured to communicate with each device and or appliance to precipitate the return of the devices to the normal operating mode after the peak demand period is over.

If the controller receives and processes an energy signal indicative of a peak demand state or high energy price or period at any time during operation of the appliances the controller makes a determination of whether one more or all of the power consuming features functions of each appliance should be operated in the energy savings mode and if so it signals the appropriate device to begin operating in the energy savings or deferral mode in order to reduce the instantaneous amount of energy being consumed. The controller is configured to communicate with the appliance control board thru to provide command instructions for the appliance control board to govern specific features functions for example to operate at a lower consumption level or defer operation and determine what the lower consumption level should be. This enables each appliance to be controlled by the appliance s controller where user inputs are being considered directly rather than invoking an uncontrolled immediate termination of the operation of specific features functions of an appliance from an external source such as a utility. It should be appreciated that the controller can be configured with default settings that govern normal mode and energy savings mode operation. Such settings in each mode can be fixed while others are adjustable to user preferences to provide response to load shedding signals.

In one embodiment the central controller transmits signals received from the utility via smart meter or other means along to devices and connected to a home area network HAN . The central controller manages which devices shed load by entering into an energy savings mode or other power deferred state and collects information about the home in a home database in the memory. The data is further compiled into an aggregate home database having home data of multiple homes. The aggregate home database that can be collected and stored in the controller s memory on site via a query for public home data or from a private database of home data for homes sharing such information.

The controller may include a user interface having a display and control buttons for making various operational selections. The display can be configured to provide active real time feedback to the user on the cost of operating each appliance . The costs are generally based on the current operating and usage patterns and energy consumption costs such as the cost per kilowatt hour charged by the corresponding utility. The controller is configured to gather information and data related to current energy usage patterns energy generation and or storage data. A carbon footprint is calculated together with an energy profile of the home based on the characteristics of the utility generation mix and other fuels such as natural gas consumed by the home. This information can be used to determine current energy usage and cost associated with using each device appliance in one of the energy savings mode and normal mode as well as provide information from a web browser of suppliers able to provide energy reduction devices information to save on energy usage increase generation at the home improve storage and or other savings tips for the home including tips for making changes to the home based on demographic information and home data. This real time information i.e. current usage patterns and or current power cost can be presented to the user via the display.

Home data is merged together by the device controller acting as the central brain for the system and includes information about construction specifications such as geographical location home age size insulation information appliances within the home a number of rooms an orientation of the home obtained from good map info for example and or other public and or private residence data pertaining to the home. Private residence data includes past utility bills HVAC appliance size ratings home expansion data window orientation number of floors number of residents and or any other type of private data related to energy usage of the home. Other data affecting the home stored in a home data base includes meteorological data such as temperature solar insolation data precipitation geographical weather and or wind patterns for example. Utility data pertaining to the home is also considered as home data gathered by the controller . Utility data includes information about usage cost history the generation of CO2 by the utility generation mix or other emissions caused by the home and or data for similar residences having data available for comparison. The user display has a user interface which may be a web based application interface that presents all home data including current energy consumption historical energy consumption thermostat set points and schedule weather forecast information for determining optimal times to run certain devices generate energy on site and or store energy to the energy consumer user of the home.

In one embodiment the central controller operates as a data server embodied in a client application not shown . The central controller provides data received from devices within the home to the client application which in turns formats the data to be presented to the user such as in graphs or other type of displays. In another embodiment the controller operates as a web server for serving web based applications to a browser device and or a sending interface over an IP connection for a web based application.

The controller communicates to the sensor radios via one or more wireless radios. The interface radios are ZigBee 802.15.4 WiFi 802.11 and an FM receiver. The device controller can also include ports such as USB or Ethernet for adding additional functionality.

In one embodiment the controller connects via either Ethernet or WiFi to the homeowner s router and to a client application in a personal computer and or a mobile device to access the Internet of . This allows for remote service and monitoring capability. A server can keep records of all homes therein that may be accessed remotely via the internet.

In one embodiment the central controller compiles an energy profile and carbon footprint such as graphs from home data stored within the table of memory with a home database for the individual home. The home database of memory is operable to be updated via the user interface with demographic information regarding the number age sex and income of the residents as well as information about the occupancy patterns an other personal preferences related to the home. A carbon footprint is the total set of greenhouse gases GHG emissions associated with activities of an organization event or product. For simplicity of reporting it is often expressed in terms of the amount of carbon dioxide or its equivalent of other GHGs emitted. An individual nation or organization s carbon footprint can be measured by undertaking a GHG emissions assessment. Once the size of a carbon footprint is known a strategy can be devised to reduce it e.g. by technological developments better process and product management changed Green Public or Private Procurement GPP Carbon capture consumption strategies and others. The mitigation of carbon footprints through the development of alternative projects such as solar or wind energy or reforestation represents one way of reducing a carbon footprint and is often known as carbon offsetting.

The energy profile and carbon foot print of the home is based on home data such as physical and demographic data about the individual s home. For example home data comprises data such as a geographical location as determined by GPS for example size e.g. square footage number of floors rooms age year of construction and an orientation of the home as provided by a mapping application e.g. Google mapping applications on site generation data and or other public private residence data. Home data further includes meterological data including local temperatures precipitation solar insolation data and wind trends. Utility data is also compiled such as historical energy consumption and cost history information emissions of carbon dioxide by the utility generation mix or other emission data for the given home and usage for homes that are similar based on similar construction age size orientation and or other physical and demographic data about the home.

The individual home data is compiled into an aggregate home data base for multiple homes for a comparison to be made with the consumer s individual home and other similar type homes. The comparison results are presented to the user in a web browser or a client application for example on a client device. The aggregate home data base could be stored on site in the memory controller and or the server . The comparison results of similar homes are used to make recommendations to the consumer of the home for saving energy costs and or reducing the carbon footprint. The recommendations include cost savings payback benefits financing options local supplier information on site generation methods and or devices for reducing cost carbon and or other emission associated with energy usage at the home. For example products services for reducing energy costs CO2 emissions can be provided such as upgraded appliances suggestions hot water and or lighting upgrades. Other examples include HVAC upgrades or repairs geothermal solar thermal methods on site generation methods such as photovoltaic solar panels wind natural gas fuel cell options etc. that are available online or locally. Improvements such as building shell improvements are recommended. For example insulation types windows and other physical construction upgrade possibilities that may be of benefit to the consumer. Energy storage systems are presented that comprises battery hot water or cold storage methods. Energy audit services are also suggested for the local area for improving cost efficiency and or carbon offsetting.

Recommendations are provided for reducing overall net energy consumption and approaching a net zero energy condition. The evaluation would include recommendations regarding energy reduction and addition of on site power generation and or storage at the home. The recommendations are based on at least one of the comparison of similar type homes age geographical location cost home construction efficiency resident demographic data past utility billing information total power energy consumption of the home power energy consumption of individual energy consuming devices at the home generation produces available and or storage products available. A net zero energy consumption is when a home has a source of in home generation or storage and generates as much energy at the home as is consumed over the course of a time period such as a year. For example recommendations provided to the home owner could provide the energy usage amounts over time to the user with generation data. If generation data is less than the amount consumed options available will be provided to improve any number of the characteristics making up the home s profile to increase efficiency cost and or generation of energy. For example age of the home may indicate that new windows could be provided by a certain local supplier suggested that would increase insulation by an amount to offset cost and the carbon footprint made by the home. Other products services suppliers could be provided that are available to the user such as newly marketed flexible solar panels or increased efficiency solar panels geothermal devices on site fuel cells windmills etc.

Different measuring devices for various types of sources of energy. The HEM system communicates wirelessly for example to radios that are connected to various sensors. Measurement of electricity includes at least a power meter for example and a wireless radio module.

In another embodiment the home can be outfitted with a smart electric meter as the meter or other meters in the system for example. This meter wirelessly communicates directly with the central device controller . The home s smart meter can be configured to establish a communication link for communicating a signal based on any natural resource consumption and generation such as for electrical water or gas. This communication is sent to the radio module. In another embodiment the electric utility can directly send the consumption data to the central device via the Internet rather than the meter.

In one embodiment the water utility can directly send the consumption data to the central device controller via the Internet or IP connection . For example a natural gas measurement includes a natural gas flow meter and or a wireless radio module. The gas meter is inserted into the home s incoming gas line. In addition the gas utility can directly send the consumption data to the central device controller via the Internet .

In another embodiment an HVAC controller may be a standard home thermostat used to program temperature set points and schedules for the HVAC systems. This controller could contain a radio module in order to communicate schedule and temperature information with the central device. Local utility and rate information is also broadcast from the utility or energy provider to the controller directly. The controller can receive rate and schedule information as well as demand side management DSM signals to pass them on to the household appliances.

The controller further comprises a memory having at least table of that collects energy consumption generation and or storage data for a home or other structure e.g. warehouse business etc. . The table comprises variables associated with the heating and cooling conditions of the home for example. A table could be generated for each device and any given operating mode that includes historical home data and data that is currently updated which may be used in a client application of a client device such as a computer or mobile phone for presenting graphs or other data to the user.

The duration of time that each device operates in the energy savings mode may be determined by information in the energy signal. For example the energy signal may inform the controller to operate in the energy savings mode for a few minutes or for one hour before a DR event at which time each device returns to normal operation. Once transmission of the signal has ceased each appliance returns to normal operating mode. In yet another embodiment an energy signal may be transmitted to the controller to signal each device to operate in the energy savings mode. A normal operation signal may then be later transmitted to the controller to signal each device to return to the normal operating mode.

The operation of each device may vary as a function of a characteristic of the utility state and or supplied energy. Because some energy suppliers offer time of day pricing in their tariffs price points could be tied directly to the tariff structure for the energy supplier. If real time pricing is offered by the energy supplier serving the site this variance could be utilized to generate savings and reduce load demand. Similarly if pricing is available for ancillary services such as providing spinning reserve or frequency regulations the loads and generation sources in the home may respond in a manner to generate savings for customers.

In one embodiment the system has the capability for remote software upgrades and bug fixes. For example if a software bug is found this feature will allow for it to be fixed quickly and in a very cost effective manner. The system has the capability for the homeowner to log onto a secure IP connection and interface to their system via a portal for example. This will allow consumers additional flexibility to monitor their home while away.

The method begins at start. At physical and demographic data as discussed above are retrieved and upon retrieval the data is stored in a home data base. At an energy profile and carbon footprint is determined. The energy profile and carbon footprint demonstrate the energy usage of the home with geographic location and physical construction characteristics. For example a total energy consumption of the home is received including a natural resources consumption comprising gas electricity based on utility generation mix and water of the home and an energy consumption of individual devices within the home. Energy generation and storage data at the home also make up the energy profile of the home and affect the carbon footprint based upon the nature of the on site generation or storage characteristics.

At the energy profile and carbon footprint of the home is compiled into an aggregate home database having home data for other homes. The aggregate database stores data for multiple homes. At the energy profile and carbon footprint of the home is compared with the data of other homes in the aggregate database in order to give recommendations for improving savings efficiency and the carbon footprint of the home.

At historical power consumption information is presented to the user about energy consuming devices generation devices and or storage devices within a home network via a user interface of a client application. For example a user s cell phone can present such information to the user. At comparison results are presented in a web browser via an IP connection. The home database is updated with consumer inputted home data that includes demographic information regarding the number age sex and income of residents of the home as well as information regarding occupancy patterns and other personal preferences at . At recommendations are provided to a consumer that comprise cost savings payback benefits financing options local suppliers and on site home generation methods and or devices for reducing cost carbon and or other emissions associated with the home.

The invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiments. Obviously modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading and understanding the preceding detailed description. It is intended that the invention be construed as including all such modifications and alterations.

