---

title: Mechanism to enable WiFi offload based on power preference of user equipment
abstract: In typical UEs, scanning for WiFi access points (APs) can consume a significant amount of power. This scanning occurs when the UE is connected through the cellular network, but does not occur when the UE is connected to a WiFi network. As a result, offloading a UE from a cellular network to a WiFi network can allow the UE to conserve power. An issue with existing cellular networks is that the UE cannot inform a cellular network that the UE is running low on power, and therefore cannot direct the cellular network to offload the UE for power conservation reasons. A technique discussed herein allows the UE to indicate its power saving needs to the cellular network. In response, the cellular network can lower (or raise) a particular threshold, so that the UE now exceeds (or no longer exceeds) the threshold, and initiates offloading.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609565&OS=09609565&RS=09609565
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09609565
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131217
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 832 644 filed Jun. 7 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments pertain to operations and communications performed by electronic devices in wireless networks. Some embodiments relate to determining when to offload a user equipment UE from a cellular network onto a WiFi network.

A user equipment UE such as a cellular telephone can transmit and receive data over a cellular network. A connection from a UE can be offloaded from the cellular network onto a WiFi network so that data is sent through the WiFi network rather than the cellular network. Such offloading can ease data transmission through the cellular network can reduce the user fees associated with data transmission through the cellular network and can often improve the rate at which data is sent and received from the UE.

The following description and the drawings sufficiently illustrate specific embodiments to enable those skilled in the art to practice them. Other embodiments can incorporate structural logical electrical process and other changes. Portions and features of some embodiments can be included in or substituted for those of other embodiments. Embodiments set forth in the claims encompass all available equivalents of those claims.

In existing cellular networks the cellular network decides when to offload a user equipment UE to a WiFi network. Typically the cellular network bases a decision to offload on cell loading availability of operator deployed access points APs and or received signal strength RSRP of various APs. Existing cellular networks do not base the decision to offload on power consumption of the UE.

In typical UEs scanning for WiFi access points APs can consume a significant amount of power. This scanning occurs when the UE is connected through the cellular network but does not occur when the UE is connected to a WiFi network. As a result offloading a UE from a cellular network to a WiFi network can allow the UE to stop or reduce its scanning for APs and can therefore conserve power for the UE.

An issue with existing cellular networks is that the UE cannot inform a cellular network that the UE is running low on power and therefore cannot direct the cellular network to offload the UE for power conservation reasons. The technique discussed herein addresses this issue so that a UE can indicate its power saving needs to the cellular network and the cellular network can respond to initiate offloading. The cellular network can initiate offloading by modifying and or adjusting its offloading policies accordingly. For instance the network can lower or raise a particular threshold so that the UE now exceeds or no longer exceeds the threshold and initiates offloading.

The UE sends a Power Preference Indication PPI message to the eNB to indicate that the UE has a low power. The threshold for low power can include a specified fraction of battery life a specified time remaining for operation or other suitable threshold. The PPI message indicates an offloading request to the eNB .

In response to the PPI message the eNB can initiate offloading in an offload instruction to the UE . The offload instruction can include a command to offload. The offload instruction can also include the basic service set identification BSSID of the desired WLAN so that the UE knows where to offload to.

As a mechanism to force the UE to offload the eNB can adjust its policies. For instance to initiate offloading the eNB can temporarily adjust a threshold value for Reference Signal Receive Power RSRP . The UE which is pre configured to offload when its RSRP value drops below the threshold receives the adjusted threshold determines that it no longer exceeds the threshold and initiates offloading to the WLAN . Temporarily adjusting the RSRP threshold is but one example the eNB can also change other suitable policies to get the UE to initiate offloading.

In response to the offload instruction the UE can contact the WLAN identified by the BSSID in the offload instruction by sending the identified WLAN an offload initiation . The WLAN responds suitably and connects the UE to the WiFi network. Once the UE is offloaded and connected to the WiFi network through the WLAN the UE can send and receive data through the WiFi network.

The connection scheme of requires modification to the current 3GPP specification. At present PPI is used to signal a power preference between a UE and an eNB but the power preference is not used in whole or in part to trigger an offloading event.

In addition to forcing the UE to offload the eNB can decrease the number of WiFi access points APs that the UE needs to scan. Scanning fewer APs can decrease power usage for the UE .

There can be four aspects to the connection scheme in . First the UE sends the PPI to indicate offloading request to the WLAN. Second the eNB adjusts and changes the policies if the UE sends the PPI. Third the eNB changes the threshold values for the WLAN offloading after receiving the PPI. Fourth the eNB decreases the number of APs that UE needs to scan after receiving the PPI. Other aspects are possible as well.

Although the preceding examples of wireless network connections were provided with specific reference to 3GPP LTE LTE A IEEE 802.11 and Bluetooth communication standards it will be understood that a variety of other WWAN WLAN and WPAN protocols and standards can be used in connection with the techniques described herein. These standards include but are not limited to other standards from 3GPP e.g. HSPA UMTS IEEE 802.16 e.g. 802.16p or Bluetooth e.g. Bluetooth 4.0 or like standards defined by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group standards families. Other applicable network configurations can be included within the scope of the presently described communication networks. It will be understood that communications on such communication networks can be facilitated using any number of personal area networks LANs and WANs using any combination of wired or wireless transmission mediums.

The embodiments described above can be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. Various methods or techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as flash memory hard drives portable storage devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM semiconductor memory devices e.g. Electrically Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media and any other machine readable storage medium or storage device wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer or networking device the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques.

A machine readable storage medium or other storage device can include any non transitory mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . In the case of program code executing on programmable computers the computing device can include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that can implement or utilize the various techniques described herein can use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs can be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Example computer system machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via an interconnect e.g. a link a bus etc. . The computer system machine can further include a video display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the video display unit input device and UI navigation device are a touch screen display. The computer system machine can additionally include a storage device e.g. a drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker an output controller a power management controller and a network interface device which can include or operably communicate with one or more antennas transceivers or other wireless communications hardware and one or more sensors such as a Global Positioning Sensor GPS sensor compass location sensor accelerometer or other sensor.

The storage device includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system machine with the main memory static memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium can include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions.

The instructions can further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

It should be understood that the functional units or capabilities described in this specification can have been referred to or labeled as components or modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component or module can be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component or module can also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like. Components or modules can also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component or module of executable code can for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which can for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component or module need not be physically located together but can comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the component or module and achieve the stated purpose for the component or module.

Indeed a component or module of executable code can be a single instruction or many instructions and can even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data can be identified and illustrated herein within components or modules and can be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data can be collected as a single data set or can be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and can exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components or modules can be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Additional examples of the presently described method system and device embodiments include the following non limiting configurations. Each of the following non limiting examples can stand on its own or can be combined in any permutation or combination with any one or more of the other examples provided below or throughout the present disclosure.

The Abstract is provided to allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

