---

title: Localized detection of mobile devices
abstract: Various aspects are disclosed herein for detection of mobile devices. Detection of mobile devices can be localized to an environment that is radio frequency enclosed. Within this environment, any packages can be scanned for the presence of mobile devices and for the interrogation of information from such mobile devices, such as the mobile device number and mobile device equipment information. The environment can contain an antenna for communicating with any mobile devices within the environment and a receiver component configured to receive information from any contacted mobile device. Based on this information, a determination can be made whether to validate a contacted mobile device or to take any alternative action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521183&OS=08521183&RS=08521183
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08521183
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130222
---
The instant application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 059 845 filed Mar. 31 2008. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 059 845 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this document may contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply to this document Copyright 2008 AT T Mobility II LLC.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to the field of computing and more particularly to fields such as detection of computing devices although this is merely an exemplary and non limiting field.

Scanning for packages that may contain mobile devices is important to various security systems. Passive scanning such as using x rays can at times reveal that a mobile device may be present in a package however no other useful information can be garnered using such passive security systems. Thus active security measures are needed that will yield richer information about potentially dangerous mobile devices.

Various aspects are disclosed herein for detection of mobile devices. Detection of mobile devices can be localized to an environment that is radio frequency enclosed. Within this environment any packages can be scanned for the presence of mobile devices and for the interrogation of information from such mobile devices such as the mobile device number and mobile device equipment information.

The environment can contain an antenna for communicating with any mobile devices within the environment and a receiver component configured to receive information from any contacted mobile device. Based on this information a determination can be made whether to validate a contacted mobile device or to take any alternative action.

It should be noted that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In the former scenario where the x ray scanner was examining contents of a package at most what could be known was that there may been a computing device present such as a mobile device in the package . However no other information could be ascertained regarding the mobile device itself such as the mobile device phone number or mobile device equipment information for example model make year and so on .

Thus in one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter the mobile device scanner can force any mobile device in the package to interact with the scanner just as any mobile device would interact with a cellular tower or some other communication component or relay. The scanner could send a plurality of signals to the mobile devices eventually resulting in a response if the scanner has a list of all the usable mobile device signals it can go down this list and send a signal at each listed frequency .

Because the radio frequency enclosed environment limits the range of communications to the environment itself the mobile device is forced to communicate with the scanner via the antenna . The scanner can interrogate the mobile device for any information that could be typically asked for by a cellular tower or a mobile device carrier. In addition in some aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter the scanner could also exercise control over the mobile device such as having the ability to disable it e.g. turn it off .

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter the signal emitted by the antenna and controlled by a broadcast component shown in can be adjustable in strength in order to permeate different package materials. Moreover the signal strength can be controlled to be high enough to communicate with the mobile device but not so strong that it would permeate out of the environment . Thus both the signal strength and the environment can be adjustable so that any interrogation of the mobile device is localized to the environment . Furthermore the environment can not only be radio frequency adjustable but also physically adjustable and thus extensible to include any overflow packages not shown that may not fit within the original environment .

Lastly shows that the scanner could be communicatively coupled to a computing device such as the one shown in where this computing device could analyze the results obtained by the scanner . Based on the results a plurality of actions could be taken as is discussed below.

The broadcast component can send out a signal within the radio frequency environment . The signal can include any or all of a plurality of bands of frequencies . Since the broadcast component may not know ahead of time the frequency at which the mobile device communicates it may have to go through a list of different frequencies in different bands before it established communications with the mobile device .

By way of example and not limitation the broadcast component can first send out frequencies in a first frequency band and if does not establish communications with the mobile device in this band it can move on to the next band of frequencies such as frequency band . Moreover it should be noted that the broadcast component can broadcast the appropriate protocol control information in the associated frequency. For example CDMA and GSM operate in the same frequency bands and different protocols would be used. Furthermore WiFi is in a different frequency band than these other frequency bands and has its own protocol WiMAX is in still another band and so on. . Thus the broadcast component can scan various frequencies and employ various protocols in the associated frequencies.

Alternatively if it does find a viable communication frequency it can stop scanning the remaining frequencies. Yet in different aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter the broadcast component can run though an entire list of frequencies in order to find the best frequency to communicate with the mobile device thus even if it finds a communication worthy frequency it can keep searching for still a better frequency and this can be done in background mode as a selected frequency is being used for communication .

The various frequencies that the broadcast component scans can correspond to devices of different types such as cell phones personal digital assistants laptops and so on. Thus various communications standards can be scanned by the broadcast component including global system for mobile GSM communications wireless fidelity Wi Fi Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS Frequency Division Duplexing FDD and Time Division Duplexing TDD High Speed Packet Data Access HSPDA cdma2000 1x Evolution Data Optimized EVDO Code Division Multiple Access 2000 cdma2000 3x Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT and so on. Those of skill in the art will readily appreciate the numerous communications standards that are used by mobile devices and the broadcast component can use any one or all of these communications standards.

The receiver component can be configured to receive sought after information and can forward this information to a checking component . The checking component can access a local or remote database and examine the received information by the receiver component against data in the database . The data in the database can include cross references of phone numbers assigned to the name of an individual the social security numbers of individuals criminal records financial histories and so on. In the end once the checking component has compared the information received from the mobile device to the information obtained from the database a determination can be on how to proceed with the package .

In other words if the mobile device is validated and not of concern according to the determination component the package can be released from the radio frequency environment . If however the mobile device is not responding to the plurality of signals sent from the broadcast component an agent may have to personally inspect the package as shown in . Alternatively if the mobile device is of concern because for example it provides information inconsistent with information obtained from the database at that point either the agent may inspect the package or any mobile devices of concern in the package can be controlled by the broadcast component e.g. turned off have their incoming and outgoing communications cut off except in other aspects those communications that would occur with the broadcast component .

Next at block a component can be configured to broadcast a plurality of bands of frequencies and associated communication protocols inside the radio frequency enclosed environment via the antenna. These frequencies can include GSM or WiFi communications or any other standard communications. In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter non standard frequencies can be used if such frequencies are heuristically known to be used by mobile devices e.g. intercepted communication frequencies .

At block a receiver component could be configured to receive a signal from a mobile device inside the radio frequency enclosed environment in response to the broadcast of plurality of bands of frequencies. This receiver could be a component integrated with the antenna and the broadcast component as an overall scanning system discussed above with reference to . Alternatively all these components could be separate and yet communicatively coupled.

At block another component could be configured to check the signal for information regarding the mobile device against a database whether such a database would be local to the component or remote central or distributed. The amount of analysis that the checking component would perform could depend on the context in which a package appears. For example in an international airline transportation context a package containing a cell phone might command a vast amount of checking including not only the phone number and or equipment information but also associated user background information. Yet in another context such as domestic train transportation context the checking could be more limited in that legitimate and confirmed phone numbers might suffice. In short the amount of checking can be proportional to the risk posed by a package containing a mobile device.

At block another component could be configured to make a determination based on the information whether to validate the mobile device. Thus after a package has been checked a decision could be made as to how to proceed. Regarding this aspect various computerized rules and human enabled expert systems could be used along with various industry and proprietary heuristics. The decision that will be reached will depend on the totality of the circumstances considered by the system method or computer readable medium bearing computer executable instructions.

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter at block another component could be configured to send a signal e.g. from the broadcast component to the mobile device in order to control the mobile device. Controlling the device could entail switching off the mobile device immobilizing communication on the mobile device e.g. not allowing the mobile device to receive any input output overwriting software commands and or data on the mobile device and so on. Such control could be exercised pursuant to a determination that the mobile device might pose a risk to a party such as individual an enterprise organization a governmental organization and so on .

Lastly at block the results of the determination reached at block can be displayed so that agents or other individuals using these aspects can make informed decisions on how to handle various packages that may contain mobile devices.

The above discussed aspects of localized detection mechanisms for mobile devices can be implemented in a variety of computing and networking environments. Thus the notion of mobiles devices can include hand held devices laptops cell phones and so on. Referring to a block diagram shows an exemplary computing device. This device which can include a mobile device or a computing analysis device can comprise for example digital audio processing functionality. Specifically in a computing device is shown with a central processing unit CPU having a level 1 L1 cache a level 2 L2 cache and a flash ROM Read only Memory . The level 1 cache and level 2 cache can temporarily store data and hence reduce the number of memory access cycles thereby improving processing speed and throughput. The flash ROM may store executable code that is loaded during an initial phase of a boot process when the computing device is powered. Alternatively the executable code that is loaded during the initial boot phase can be stored in a flash memory device not shown . Further ROM can be located separately from the CPU . These memory devices can cache parts or the entirety of the above mentioned applications programs applets managed code and so on.

A graphics processing unit GPU and a video encoder video codec coder decoder can form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data can be carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder video codec via a bus. The video processing pipeline can output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. A memory controller can be connected to the GPU and CPU to facilitate processor access to various types of memory such as but not limited to a RAM Random Access Memory .

The computing device can include an I O controller a system management controller an audio processing unit a network interface controller a first USB host controller a second USB controller and a front panel I O subassembly that can be preferably implemented on a module . The USB controllers and can serve as hosts for peripheral controllers a wireless adapter and an external memory unit e.g. flash memory external CD DVD ROM drive removable media etc. . Moreover the network interface and or wireless adapter can provide access to a network e.g. the Internet home network etc. and may be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless interface components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

System memory can be provided to store application data that is loaded during the boot process. A media drive can be provided and can comprise a DVD CD drive hard drive or other removable media drive etc. The media drive can be internal or external to the computing device . Application data can be accessed via the media drive for execution playback etc. by the computing device . The media drive can be connected to the I O controller via a bus such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection e.g. IEEE 1394 .

The system management controller can provide a variety of service functions to assure the availability of the computing device . The audio processing unit and an audio codec can form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity 3D surround and stereo audio processing according to aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter above. Audio data can be carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline can output data to the A V port for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.

The front panel I O subassembly can support the functionality of the power button and the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the computing device . A system power supply module can provide power to the components of the computing device . A fan can cool the circuitry within the computing device .

The CPU GPU memory controller and various other components within the computing device can be interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

When the computing device is powered on or rebooted application data can be loaded from the system memory into memory and or caches and executed on the CPU . Such application data can include some of the online derived data. The application may also present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the computing device . In operation applications and or other media contained within the media drive can be launched or played from the media drive to provide additional functionalities to the computing device .

The computing device may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode the computing device may allow one or more users to interact with the system watch movies listen to music and the like. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface or the wireless adapter the computing device may further be operated as a participant in a larger network community of computing devices. As such a participant it may interact with other computing devices whether PCs or servers and receive information that may be eventually stored. Thus in short the computing device can be implemented as any mobile device discussed above. Moreover the notion of a mobile device includes not only devices that are typically carried by users but also computing devices that can be moved that have the potential to be mobile . Hence the claims should be interpreted to encompass a broad notion of what is a mobile device.

Next illustrates an exemplary networking environment for such mobile devices as discussed with reference to . The above discussed computing device can correspond to any one of the computing devices or it can be distributed over such devices . It can interact with various other objects and storage devices via a communications network bus where such objects and devices can correspond to other computing devices whether hardware firmware or software . The cross platform applications can communicate in peer to peer networks or client server based networks depending on the implementation.

Finally it should also be noted that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible storage media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium where when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the subject matter.

In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may utilize the creation and or implementation of domain specific programming models aspects of the present invention e.g. through the use of a data processing application programming interface API or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined.

Finally while the present disclosure has been described in connection with a plurality of exemplary aspects as illustrated in the various figures and discussed above it is understood that other similar aspects may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described aspects for performing the same function of the present disclosure without deviating therefrom. For example in various aspects of the disclosure methods systems and computer readable media were described configured for providing security by examining mobile devices. However other equivalent mechanisms to these described aspects are also contemplated by the teachings herein. Therefore the present disclosure should not be limited to any single aspect but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

