---

title: Radio spectrum trading
abstract: Radio spectrum trading involves determining available radio spectrum and requestors desiring to lease portions of the available radio spectrum, and for allocating the available spectrum to the requestors. A pricing curve may be set based on historical information and/or requests to lease spectrum. A determination may then be made as to whether an amount of available spectrum is less than or greater than an amount spectrum being requested. If it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum being requested, then an auction may be conducted for the available spectrum with the initial bid being set based on the pricing curve. If the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum being requested, then the requests may be sorted based on predicted revenue generation and the available spectrum may be allocated in order from highest to lowest revenue generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09226160&OS=09226160&RS=09226160
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09226160
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130313
---
The present U.S. Patent Application is a Continuation in Part CIP of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 717 049 entitled Cloud Spectrum Management System having at least one common inventor and a filing date of Dec. 17 2012. The contents of the above identified U.S. Patent Application are incorporated herein in entirety by reference.

The present disclosure relates to spectrum management and more particularly to systems and methods for trading spectrum between spectrum owners and those seeking to lease spectrum.

As wireless technology continues to evolve the number of wireless enabled devices in the marketplace continues to expand. Not only are devices emerging that are primarily tasked with wireless communication e.g. cellular handsets smartphones etc. but also applications that did not previously include any form of communication functionality are becoming able to interact wirelessly. For example vehicles appliances heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems thermostats manufacturing equipment security systems street signs etc. may all be configured to interact wirelessly with other wireless applications being devised daily.

While the benefits of communication functionality associated with wireless devices may be apparent an unintended consequence of this wireless explosion is the large amount of traffic that has been created. Wireless communication bandwidth may generally be divided into two categories regulated spectrum and unregulated spectrum. Regulated spectrum may be reserved for government services e.g. police fire etc. or licensed to a wireless service provider for use exclusively by their subscribers. Unregulated spectrum may be used by anyone and is typically limited to short range wireless communication mediums e.g. Bluetooth wireless local area networking WLAN etc. in relatively noisy bandwidths. It might seem logical that designers would want to use unregulated spectrum whenever possible due to availability cost savings etc. While unregulated spectrum may be attractive for some uses the limitations on its use e.g. only for short range wireless communication interference caused by other signal sources operating in the same spectrum etc. do not allow it to be a direct replacement for regulated spectrum. On the other hand the amount of regulated spectrum is very limited and thus leasing it may be very costly. Regardless exponential growth caused by new subscribers is continues to drive demand.

Although the following Detailed Description will proceed with reference being made to illustrative embodiments many alternatives modifications and variations thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

This disclosure is directed to a cloud spectrum management system. In general an example cloud spectrum management system may receive requests from spectrum requestors seeking available radio spectrum and spectrum owners desiring to lease available radio spectrum and or seeking to reclaim leased radio spectrum. The cloud spectrum management system may accumulate these requests and match spectrum requestor requests with spectrum owners having available radio spectrum to lease. The resulting radio spectrum trade transactions may be carried out by the cloud spectrum management system which may further monitor the radio spectrum trade transactions to help ensure that they are carried out in accordance with the agreed to terms.

In one embodiment an example system may include a market communication module to communicate with a market place for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication a core service s module to determine radio spectrum trade transactions based at least on the communications between the market communication module and the market and a management utilities module configured to manage the radio spectrum trade transactions determined by the core services module. The market communication module may comprise for example at least one application programming interface API to receive information from at least one of spectrum requestors seeking available radio spectrum or spectrum owners desiring to lease available radio spectrum or reclaim leased radio spectrum. The market communication module may further include at least one of a request processor to accumulate the information received from the spectrum requestors and spectrum owners an event processor to monitor the request processor for events and a cloud controller to communicate with the core services module e.g. to forward the spectrum requests received from the spectrum market .

An example core services module may comprise a real time trading engine to receive the accumulated information from the market information module and an analytics engine utilizing at least one of a multi objective optimization engine or a cognitive engine to determine the radio spectrum trade transactions based at least on the accumulated information. In one embodiment the multi objective engine may be to at least one of maximize revenues for the spectrum owners ensure quality of service for the spectrum requestors or maximize radio spectrum utilization. while the cognitive engine may comprise machine learning algorithms to forecast predicted spectrum usage. In determining the radio spectrum trade transactions the analytics engine may interact with at least one of a match making engine a rules based engine a negotiation broker a time frequency unit TFU allocation engine a broker agent interface or a spectrum transaction management engine. In the same or a different embodiment the management utilities module may comprise an order management processor to carry out the radio spectrum trade transactions. The management utilities module may also comprise a service level agreement SLA manager to ensure that terms agreed to in the radio spectrum trade transaction carried out by the order management processor are met by the spectrum requestors and spectrum owners.

In the same or a different embodiment the system may comprise a persistence module comprising at least one database. The database may be to store information related to at least one of radio spectrum availability radio spectrum characteristic information radio spectrum geographical information and historical radio spectrum trade transaction information. A method consistent with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure may comprise for example receiving requests seeking available spectrum from a market for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication matching the requests seeking available spectrum with the requests offering to lease spectrum to form radio spectrum trade transactions and supervising execution of the radio spectrum trade transactions.

CSMS may communicate with spectrum market to facilitate radio spectrum trade transactions between spectrum requestors and spectrum owners. In this regard CSMS may also be referred to as a broker in that it may broker available radio spectrum between spectrum requestors and spectrum owners. During operation CSMS may communicate with spectrum requestors and spectrum owners directly or with another CSMS existing in spectrum market to determine spectrum requirements and available spectrum to fulfill the requirements. It is therefore possible for CSMS to interact with another CSMS in spectrum market to determine what requirements availability exist within the other CSMS and to broker a deal between spectrum requestors and spectrum brokers associated with different broker systems.

CSMS may comprise for example at least market communication module core services module and management utilities module . The modules may be customized and or configured via administrative services and may be protected by security using various known or to be developed methods and or mechanisms including for example access control privacy protection data theft prevention etc. Information may be stored in persistence module and may be accessible to each of these three modules. Initially a function of market communication module may be to interact with spectrum market . This interaction may include exchanging information related to spectrum requestors spectrum owners and the current conditions in spectrum market . The information resulting from this exchange may then be provided to core services module which may employ the information along with for example historical or statistical information derived from persistence module to determine radio spectrum trade transactions. Radio spectrum trade transactions may involve a spectrum owner agreeing to temporarily lease e.g. for a certain time period or a certain amount of data available radio spectrum to a spectrum requestor. The radio spectrum trade transactions determined by core services module may then be provided to management utilities module to carry out the radio spectrum trade transactions e.g. to formalize the temporary transfer of usage rights to initiate payments etc. and to monitor performance of the spectrum requestor and spectrum owner to ensure that the terms of the radio spectrum trade transaction are honored.

Administrative services and security may act as cross layers binding market communication module core services module and management utilities module together. These cross layers may provide administration over the entire spectrum management process to authenticate spectrum holders and verify the eligibility of spectrum requestors and spectrum holders to participate in the brokerage process. Administrative services and security may also facilitate creation and enforcement of rules governing how CSMS operates.

Device may comprise system module configured to generally manage device operations. System module may include for example processing module memory module power module user interface module and communication interface module that may be configured to interact with communication module . Device may also include CSMS configured to interact with at least memory module and communication module . While CSMS and communication module are shown separate from system module this is merely for the sake of explanation herein. Some or all of the functionality associated with CSMS and or communication module may also be incorporated within system module .

In device processing module may comprise one or more processors situated in separate components or alternatively may comprise one or more processing cores embodied in a single component e.g. in a System on a Chip SOC configuration and any processor related support circuitry e.g. bridging interfaces etc. . Example processors may include various x86 based microprocessors available from the Intel Corporation including those in the Pentium Xeon Itanium Celeron Atom Core i series product families. Examples of support circuitry may include chipsets e.g. Northbridge Southbridge etc. available from the Intel Corporation configured to provide an interface through which processing module may interact with other system components that may be operating at different speeds on different buses etc. in device . Some or all of the functionality commonly associated with the support circuitry may also be included in the same physical package as the processor e.g. an SOC package like the Sandy Bridge integrated circuit available from the Intel Corporation .

Processing module may be configured to execute various instructions in device . Instructions may include program code configured to cause processing module to perform activities related to reading data writing data processing data formulating data converting data transforming data etc. Information e.g. instructions data etc. may be stored in memory module . Memory module may comprise random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM in a fixed or removable format. RAM may include memory configured to hold information during the operation of device such as for example static RAM SRAM or Dynamic RAM DRAM . ROM may include memories such as bios memory configured to provide instructions when device activates programmable memories such as electronic programmable ROMs EPROMS Flash etc. Other fixed and or removable memory may include magnetic memories such as for example floppy disks hard drives etc. electronic memories such as solid state flash memory e.g. embedded multimedia card eMMC etc. removable memory cards or sticks e.g. micro storage device uSD USB etc. optical memories such as compact disc based ROM CD ROM etc. Power module may include internal power sources e.g. a battery and or external power sources e.g. electromechanical or solar generator power grid etc. and related circuitry configured to supply device with the power needed to operate.

User interface module may include circuitry configured to allow users to interact with device such as for example various input mechanisms e.g. microphones switches buttons knobs keyboards speakers touch sensitive surfaces one or more sensors configured to capture images and or sense proximity distance motion gestures etc. and output mechanisms e.g. speakers displays lighted flashing indicators electromechanical components for vibration motion etc. . Communication interface module may be configured to handle packet routing and other control functions for communication module which may include resources configured to support wired and or wireless communications. Wired communications may include serial and parallel wired mediums such as for example Ethernet Universal Serial Bus USB Firewire Digital Visual Interface DVI High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI etc. Wireless communications may include for example close proximity wireless mediums e.g. radio frequency RF such as based on the Near Field Communications NFC standard infrared IR optical character recognition OCR magnetic character sensing etc. short range wireless mediums e.g. Bluetooth WLAN Wi Fi etc. and long range wireless mediums e.g. cellular satellite etc. . In one embodiment communication interface module may be configured to prevent wireless communications that are active in communication module from interfering with each other. In performing this function communication interface module may schedule activities for communication module based on for example the relative priority of messages awaiting transmission.

In one embodiment CSMS may comprise software and or hardware configured to include some or all of the functional elements described in . It is also possible for some of the functional elements illustrated in to be situated in other devices configured to interact with CSMS via wired or wireless communication e.g. in a distributed or cloud topology . For example CSMS may interact with memory module to store information in and retrieve information from databases such as in persistence module . Moreover CSMS may also interact with communication module when communicating with spectrum market with other CSMS situated in different geographic regions etc. While not shown in it may also be possible for CSMS to interact with other modules in device including for example processing module to execute instructions associated with CSMS with user interface module to receive commands from an operator of CSMS to display information in regard to CSMS to issue visible audible alerts etc.

Request processor may be to process information received in market communication module from APIs to . For example request processor may receive requests from spectrum requestors seeking available radio spectrum lease offers from spectrum owners seeking to lease available spectrum requests to reclaim leased spectrum from spectrum owners that have leased spectrum but are now experiencing unexpected demand and similar information from other brokers e.g. at least one other CSMS . In processing this information request processor may collate types of information aggregate similar requests offers filter certain types of information organize the information for later processing etc. Event processor may monitor the information received by request processor to look for particular events e.g. trends values types of information etc. . For example event processor may detect an increase in spectrum orders may detect a trigger indicating increased order congestion etc. If an event is detected event processor may for example cause certain functionality to occur in CSMS e.g. to alleviate congestion cause an alert to be presented to operators of CSMS etc. Cloud controller may communicate with core services module . For example cloud controller may provide the information processed by request processor to core services module and may request processing of radio spectrum trade transactions.

Other elements in core services module may provide information useful to analytics engine for determining the best pairings between spectrum requestors and spectrum owners. For example match making engine may help to determine matches between TFUs available for trading according to price e.g. bid and ask prices and geographical location of the available radio spectrum. Rules based engine may be responsible for establishing TFU trading rules and brokerage criteria to help develop an efficient customizable trading and brokerage system. Negotiation broker may help to select a strategy e.g. from a selection of predetermined strategies based on for example historical performance information . The strategy may dictate how certain bargaining situations may be handled automatically including for example initial price TFU offers counter offers offer acceptance unfulfilled requirement handling etc. TFUs allocation engine may operate to gather information related to settled trading operations in terms of for example the amount of available spectrum that was leased the duration of usage for the available spectrum the price TFU at which the available spectrum is being leased etc. TFUs allocation engine may also collect information related to the available spectrum that was leased including for example frequency bands radio interface power levels etc. which may be communicated to the entity that leased the spectrum e.g. wireless service provider as part of a transaction to start the actual scheduling and allocation of the available spectrum. Spectrum transaction management engine may collect store modify retrieve etc. radio spectrum trade transactions and thus may interact with management utilities module . For example spectrum transaction manage engine may ensure that the trading experience is consistent and atomic for all parties e.g. spectrum requestors and spectrum owners and may also orchestrate roll backs wherein leased spectrum is returned to the spectrum owner based on certain situations including for example the spectrum requester not acting in accordance with the terms of the radio spectrum trading transaction e.g. not paying for the leased spectrum not using the leased spectrum in accordance with limitations set forth by the spectrum owner or the spectrum owner needing to reclaim the spectrum e.g. due to unforeseen traffic increases for emergency needs etc. . Broker Agent interface may provide an interface into core services module to for example allow other brokers to determine trading characteristics e.g. for standardization etc. .

Market feed database may include data about the condition of spectrum market such as for example market status market news announcements about the availability of radio spectrum etc. TFU tick database may include snapshots e.g. real time of the allocation and or de allocation of TFUs. This information may allow brokers to have an instant and precise status about the availability of radio spectrum to be rented to spectrum requestors or to be reclaimed by the spectrum owners. Radio environment map database may include domain environmental information from cognitive radios e.g. wireless radios able to sense information about their operation environment interference etc. and to change their operation accordingly . This information may include geographical features available networks and services spectrum policies and regulations locations and activities of neighboring encountered radios experiences etc. Radio environment map database may be used by for example cognitive engine to learn from past experiences context awareness reasoning and to forecast the allocation of proper channels for end users. Cloud spectrum database may include data pertaining to spectrum availability in terms of for example available channels e.g. radio spectrum schedule of using the channels coverage parameters location latitude and longitude price per TFU maximum power levels and spectrum license licensed or unlicensed . Geographical information system GIS database may include information about geographical features and boundaries such as for example roads railroads intersections traffic conditions etc. This type of information may be usable by analytics engine as available spectrum may be identified based on location and time. Enterprise information system EIS database may capture historical information pertaining to radio spectrum trade transactions payments orders etc. The information in EIS database may be used to for example determine historical trends predict performance identify potential problem locations and or times perform system reporting for CSMS etc.

The matching performed in operation may result in one or more radio spectrum trade transactions the execution of which may be supervised in operation . For example in one embodiment management utilities in the CSMS may ensure that the leased spectrum is reserved for the spectrum requestor and that the spectrum owner is compensated in accordance with the terms of the radio spectrum trade transaction. In operation the radio spectrum trade transactions may be monitored to ensure that the terms agreed to by the participants e.g. the spectrum requestor and the spectrum owner are fulfilled. In operation information may be stored in a persistence module related to the transaction. Operation may be optional e.g. dotted line in that whether information is stored depends on whether there is a corresponding database in the persistence module to accept the data. Operation may then be followed by an optional return to operation in preparation for the reception of additional spectrum requests.

The following disclosure describes exemplary systems and methods for radio spectrum trading that may be implemented using for example equipment such as previously described above in association with various embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. However the following systems and methods are not intended to be limited to implementation using only the equipment set forth above. References made to any of the above features are merely for the sake of explanation herein. Systems and methods for radio spectrum trading such as described below may in actuality be implemented using any combination of equipment and software that is configurable to support the following disclosed example functionality operations etc.

In general radio spectrum trading may include systems and methods for determining an available pool of radio spectrum and requestors desiring to lease portions of the available pool of radio spectrum and for allocating the available spectrum to the requestors. A pricing curve may be set based on historical information and or requests to lease spectrum made by the requestors. A determination may then be made as to whether an amount of available spectrum is less than or greater than an amount spectrum being requested. If it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum being requested then an auction may be conducted for the available spectrum with the initial bid being set based on the pricing curve. If the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum being requested then the requestors may be sorted based on a predicted amount of revenue that will be generated from their requests and the available spectrum may be allocated in order from highest to lowest revenue generated.

In one embodiment an example system may comprise at least a core services module to determine radio spectrum trade transactions for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication. An example core services module may include an analytics engine and a real time trading engine. The analytics engine may be to for example set a pricing curve based on usage data. The real time trading engine may be to for example determine spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

In setting the pricing curve based on usage data the analytics engine may be to determine if historical usage data is available and if it is determined that the historical usage data is not available to set the pricing curve based on predetermined usage data. On the other hand if the analytics engine determines that the historical usage data is available the analytics engine may be to determine future probability for receiving spectrum requests requesting at least one of certain spectrum quantity or certain lease duration the future probability determination being based on at least one of the historical usage data and the spectrum requests. The analytics engine may then further be to determine future revenue estimates based on the future probability and may proceed to set the pricing curve based on the future revenue estimates.

The determination of spectrum availability by the real time trading engine may comprise the real time trading engine being to determine if an amount of available spectrum is greater than an amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests. If it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests then the real time trading engine may further be to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests by auctioning the available spectrum based on bids submitted by the requestors. The available spectrum may then be allocated based on a highest bid to a lowest bid received during the auction. In one embodiment the real time trading engine may further be to set an initial bid based on a minimum price determined from the pricing curve plus an empirical gap value. Alternatively if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests then the real time trading engine may further be to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests sorting the spectrum requests by predicted revenue generation and allocating the available spectrum based on the sorting. The predicted revenue determined for each spectrum request may for example be based at least on the pricing curve. A method consistent with at least one embodiment of the present disclosure may include for example setting a pricing curve based on usage data the pricing curve being usable for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication determining spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and allocating the available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

Setting the pricing curve may be followed by determining spectrum availability based on requests to lease spectrum received from requestors in operation . For example the amount of spectrum made available for lease by spectrum owners may be compared to the amount of spectrum requested in lease requests submitted by requestors e.g. wireless service providers . In one embodiment requests may include an amount of spectrum e.g. bandwidth an amount of time desired to lease the spectrum e.g. lease period and a bid. The bid may be received in terms of a lump sum an amount per time period e.g. per minute conditional amounts e.g. a higher bid for a specific bandwidth of radio spectrum and or lease period with a lessor amount for less bandwidth and or a shorter lease period etc. A determination may then be made in operation as to whether the amount of spectrum requested is greater than the amount of available spectrum. If it is determined in operation that the amount of spectrum requested is greater than the amount of available radio spectrum then in operation the available spectrum may be allocated based on an auction. For example bids may be solicited from requestors based on an initial bid determined based on the pricing curve and available spectrum may be allocated to requestors based on the highest bid to the lowest bid. Alternatively if in operation it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of bandwidth being requested the available spectrum may be allocated based on predicted revenue generation from each request in operation . For example revenue may be predicted for each request and the available spectrum may be allocated based on the highest to lowest amount of predicted revenue.

Either operation or may then be followed by operation wherein a further determination may be made as to whether previously leased spectrum is being reclaimed by the spectrum owner. For example lease provisions may include that circumstances may exist such as for example public emergency high wireless communication demand or even just by choice that spectrum owners may reclaim leased spectrum. In such an instance a lease agreement may be reversed e.g. the leased spectrum may be returned to the spectrum owner and or the charges to the spectrum requestor may be refunded in operation . Reversal of the lease agreement may then be followed by a return to operation wherein it may again be determined whether there is more available spectrum or spectrum requests so that a new spectrum lease agreement may be arranged for any requestors that were forced to relinquish their previous spectrum leases.

In at least one example implementation real time trading engine may include for example core algorithm spectrum request queue auction engine and predicted revenue engine . Analytics engine may include for example statistical engine and pricing curve setting engine . While the above elements making up real time trading engine and analytics engine have been illustrated individually it is also possible for some or all of elements to be consolidated and or for elements to be consolidated e.g. depending on the configuration of CSMS . In one embodiment core algorithm may be central engine that orchestrates the process by which available spectrum is allocated to spectrum requestors. In this role core algorithm may access spectrum request queue to determine the pending spectrum requests. For example spectrum requests may request a certain amount of spectrum e.g. S1 for a certain time period e.g. T1 and may include an amount of money that the spectrum requestor is willing to pay e.g. bid B1 . Core algorithm may then determine based on the spectrum availability information received from the spectrum owners taken in view of the amount of spectrum being requested a manner in which to allocate the available spectrum. For example core algorithm may use auction engine for allocating available spectrum if the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum being requested and on the other hand may use predicted revenue engine if the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum being requested.

In either instance core algorithm will need pricing information for determining an initial bid for starting an auction for determining predicted revenue based on spectrum requests received from spectrum requestors etc. This information may be obtained from a pricing curve determined by statistical engine and or pricing curve setting engine . Statistical engine may provide a learning mechanism by which spectrum occupancy and utilization statistics for available resources e.g. available spectrum may be determined. The utilization statistics may be based on historical usage information e.g. which may comprise prior current usage information stored in persistence module by real time trading engine and requests pending in spectrum request queue . The utilization statistics may be employed by pricing curve setting module to set a pricing curve using operations for example as set forth in .

If it is determined in operation that historical usage information is available then in operation historical usage data may be obtained from a database e.g. in persistence module which may be followed by determining future usage probability based on the historical usage information and or present requests to lease bandwidth in operation . Future usage probability may pertain to for example frequencies of available spectrum amounts of available spectrum and lease durations that are predicted to be most popular amongst spectrum requestors. Estimating future probability information helps to predict what will likely be the most frequently request received lease request. In operation predicted future revenue may then be estimated based on the future probability. The predicted future revenue allows the radio spectrum trading system to calibrate the pricing curve in operation . In this manner revenue generation may be maximized by making sure that the majority of lease requests may be fulfilled by the system.

Expiration of the auction in operation may be followed by allocating the spectrum requested to the next highest bidder in the auction in operation e.g. the highest bidder the next highest bidder etc. . In operation the amount of available spectrum may be updated prior to moving to the next highest bidder in operation . Allocation of available spectrum may continue in this manner until all of the available spectrum has been allocated to requestors or there are no more requestors remaining to which to allocate the spectrum e.g. running out of available spectrum being the more probable result as the decision to proceed with operation was predicated on the amount of requested spectrum being more than the available spectrum .

In operation available spectrum may be allocated to fulfill the request for available spectrum having the next highest predicted revenue. For example the request having the highest predicted revenue may be allocated followed by the request having the next highest predicted revenue etc. The remaining available spectrum may then be updated in operation prior to allocating spectrum to the request having the next highest predicted revenue. Operations and may continue until it is determined in operation that all available spectrum has been allocated or all the pending requests have been serviced. In this instance the probability is higher that all spectrum requests will be fulfilled before the available spectrum is consumed since in the original determination more available spectrum existed. However this could change if available spectrum is reclaimed by the spectrum owner causing a reduction in the amount of available spectrum and possibly an increase in the number of requests due to lease termination.

While and illustrate operations according to different embodiments it is to be understood that not all of the operations depicted in and are necessary for other embodiments. Indeed it is fully contemplated herein that in other embodiments of the present disclosure the operations depicted in and and or other operations described herein may be combined in a manner not specifically shown in any of the drawings but still fully consistent with the present disclosure. Thus claims directed to features and or operations that are not exactly shown in one drawing are deemed within the scope and content of the present disclosure.

As used in any embodiment herein the term module may refer to software firmware and or circuitry configured to perform any of the aforementioned operations. Software may be embodied as a software package code instructions instruction sets and or data recorded on non transitory computer readable storage mediums. Firmware may be embodied as code instructions or instruction sets and or data that are hard coded e.g. nonvolatile in memory devices. Circuitry as used in any embodiment herein may comprise for example singly or in any combination hardwired circuitry programmable circuitry such as computer processors comprising one or more individual instruction processing cores state machine circuitry and or firmware that stores instructions executed by programmable circuitry. The modules may collectively or individually be embodied as circuitry that forms part of a larger system for example an integrated circuit IC system on chip SoC desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers servers smartphones etc.

Any of the operations described herein may be implemented in a system that includes one or more storage mediums having stored thereon individually or in combination instructions that when executed by one or more processors perform the methods. Here the processor may include for example a server CPU a mobile device CPU and or other programmable circuitry. Also it is intended that operations described herein may be distributed across a plurality of physical devices such as processing structures at more than one different physical location. The storage medium may include any type of tangible medium for example any type of disk including hard disks floppy disks optical disks compact disk read only memories CD ROMs compact disk rewritables CD RWs and magneto optical disks semiconductor devices such as read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs such as dynamic and static RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs flash memories Solid State Disks SSDs embedded multimedia cards eMMCs secure digital input output SDIO cards magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Other embodiments may be implemented as software modules executed by a programmable control device.

Thus this disclosure is directed to radio spectrum trading. Radio spectrum trading involves determining available radio spectrum and requestors desiring to lease portions of the available radio spectrum and for allocating the available spectrum to the requestors. A pricing curve may be set based on historical information and or requests to lease spectrum. A determination may then be made as to whether an amount of available spectrum is less than or greater than an amount spectrum being requested. If it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum being requested then an auction may be conducted for the available spectrum with the initial bid being set based on the pricing curve. If the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum being requested then the requests may be sorted based on predicted revenue generation and the available spectrum may be allocated in order from highest to lowest revenue generated.

The following examples pertain to further embodiments. In one example there is provided a system. The system may include a core services module to determine radio spectrum trade transactions for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication the core services module including at least an analytics engine to set a pricing curve based on usage data and a real time trading engine to determine spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

The above example system may be further configured wherein the analytics engine being to set a pricing curve based on usage data comprises the analytics engine being to determine if historical usage data is available and if it is determined that the historical usage data is not available to set the pricing curve based on predetermined usage data. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein if it is determined that the historical usage data is available the analytics engine is to determine future probability for receiving spectrum requests requesting at least one of certain spectrum quantity or certain lease duration the future probability determination being based on at least one of the historical usage data and the spectrum requests to further determine future revenue estimates based on the future probability and to set the pricing curve based on the future revenue estimates.

The above example system may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein the real time trading engine being to determine spectrum availability comprises the real time trading engine being to determine if an amount of available spectrum is greater than an amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests the real time trading engine being to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests comprises the real time trading engine being to auction the available spectrum based on bids submitted by the requestors and to allocate the available spectrum based on a highest bid to a lowest bid received during the auction. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein the real time trading engine is further to set an initial bid based on a minimum price determined from the pricing curve plus an empirical gap value. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests the real time trading engine being to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests comprises the real time trading engine being to sort the spectrum requests by predicted revenue generation and to allocate the available spectrum based on the sorting. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein determining the predicted revenue for each spectrum request is based at least on the pricing curve.

The above example system may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein the real time trading engine comprises at least one of a core algorithm a spectrum request queue an auction engine and a predicted revenue engine.

In another example there is provided a method. The method may include setting a pricing curve based on usage data the pricing curve being usable for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication determining spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and

allocating the available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

The above example method may be further configured wherein setting the pricing curve based on usage data comprises determining if historical usage data is available and if it is determined that the historical usage data is not available setting the pricing curve using predetermined usage data. In this configuration the example method may further comprise if it is determined that the historical usage data is available determining future probability for receiving spectrum requests including at least one of certain spectrum quantity or certain lease duration the future probability being determined based on at least one of the historical usage data and the spectrum requests determining future revenue estimates based on the future probability and setting the pricing curve based on the future revenue estimates.

The above example method may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein determining spectrum availability comprises determining if an amount of available spectrum is greater than an amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests. In this configuration the example method may further comprise if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests auctioning the available spectrum based on bids submitted by the requestors and allocating the available spectrum based on a highest bid to a lowest bid received during the auction. In this configuration the example method may further comprise setting an initial bid based on a minimum price determined from the pricing curve plus an empirical gap value. In this configuration the example method may further comprise if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests sorting the spectrum requests by predicted revenue generation and allocating the available spectrum based on the sorting. In this configuration the example method may be further configured wherein determining the predicted revenue for each spectrum request is based at least on the pricing curve.

In another example there is provided a system including at least a core services module arranged to perform any of the above example methods.

In another example there is provided at least one machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to be being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to carry out any of the above example methods.

In another example there is provided a device configured for radio spectrum trading arranged to perform any of the above example methods.

In another example there is provided a system having means to perform any of the above example methods.

a core services module to determine radio spectrum trade transactions for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication the core services module including at least an analytics engine to set a pricing curve based on usage data and a real time trading engine to determine spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

The above example system may be further configured wherein the analytics engine being to set a pricing curve based on usage data comprises the analytics engine being to determine if historical usage data is available if it is determined that the historical usage data is not available set the pricing curve based on predetermined usage data and if it is determined that the historical usage data is available determine future probability for receiving spectrum requests requesting at least one of certain spectrum quantity or certain lease duration the future probability determination being based on at least one of the historical usage data and the spectrum requests determine future revenue estimates based on the future probability and set the pricing curve based on the future revenue estimates.

The above example system may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein the real time trading engine being to determine spectrum availability comprises the real time trading engine being to determine if an amount of available spectrum is greater than an amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests the real time trading engine being to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests comprises the real time trading engine being to auction the available spectrum based on bids submitted by the requestors an initial bid for the auction being based on a minimum price determined from the pricing curve plus an empirical gap value and to allocate the available spectrum based on a highest bid to a lowest bid received during the auction. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests the real time trading engine being to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests comprises the real time trading engine being to sort the spectrum requests by predicted revenue generation based at least on the pricing curve and to allocate the available spectrum based on the sorting.

The above example system may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein the real time trading engine comprises at least one of a core algorithm a spectrum request queue an auction engine and a predicted revenue engine.

In another example there is provided a method. The method may include setting a pricing curve based on usage data the pricing curve being usable for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication determining spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and allocating the available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

The above example method may be further configured wherein setting the pricing curve based on usage data comprises determining if historical usage data is available and

if it is determined that the historical usage data is not available setting the pricing curve using predetermined usage data and if it is determined that the historical usage data is available determining future probability for receiving spectrum requests including at least one of certain spectrum quantity or certain lease duration the future probability being determined based on at least one of the historical usage data and the spectrum requests determining future revenue estimates based on the future probability and setting the pricing curve based on the future revenue estimates.

The above example method may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein determining spectrum availability comprises determining if an amount of available spectrum is greater than an amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests. In this configuration the example method may further comprise if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests auctioning the available spectrum based on bids submitted by the requestors an initial bid being based on a minimum price determined from the pricing curve plus an empirical gap value and allocating the available spectrum based on a highest bid to a lowest bid received during the auction. In this configuration the example method may further comprise if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests sorting the spectrum requests by predicted revenue generation based at least on the pricing curve and allocating the available spectrum based on the sorting.

In another example there is provided at least one machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to be being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to carry out any of the above example methods.

In another example there is provided a system configured for radio spectrum trading arranged to perform any of the above example methods.

In another example there is provided a device having means to perform any of the above example methods.

In another example there is provided a system. The system may include a core services module to determine radio spectrum trade transactions for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication the core services module including at least an analytics engine to set a pricing curve based on usage data and a real time trading engine to determine spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

The above example system may be further configured wherein the analytics engine being to set a pricing curve based on usage data comprises the analytics engine being to determine if historical usage data is available and if it is determined that the historical usage data is not available to set the pricing curve based on predetermined usage data. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein if it is determined that the historical usage data is available the analytics engine is to determine future probability for receiving spectrum requests requesting at least one of certain spectrum quantity or certain lease duration the future probability determination being based on at least one of the historical usage data and the spectrum requests to further determine future revenue estimates based on the future probability and to set the pricing curve based on the future revenue estimates.

The above example system may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein the real time trading engine being to determine spectrum availability comprises the real time trading engine being to determine if an amount of available spectrum is greater than an amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests the real time trading engine being to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests comprises the real time trading engine being to auction the available spectrum based on bids submitted by the requestors and to allocate the available spectrum based on a highest bid to a lowest bid received during the auction. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein the real time trading engine is further to set an initial bid based on a minimum price determined from the pricing curve plus an empirical gap value. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests the real time trading engine being to allocate available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests comprises the real time trading engine being to sort the spectrum requests by predicted revenue generation and to allocate the available spectrum based on the sorting. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein determining the predicted revenue for each spectrum request is based at least on the pricing curve.

The above example system may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein the real time trading engine comprises at least one of a core algorithm a spectrum request queue an auction engine and a predicted revenue engine.

In another example there is provided a method. The method may include setting a pricing curve based on usage data the pricing curve being usable for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication determining spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and

allocating the available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

The above example method may be further configured wherein setting the pricing curve based on usage data comprises determining if historical usage data is available and if it is determined that the historical usage data is not available setting the pricing curve using predetermined usage data. In this configuration the example method may further comprise if it is determined that the historical usage data is available determining future probability for receiving spectrum requests including at least one of certain spectrum quantity or certain lease duration the future probability being determined based on at least one of the historical usage data and the spectrum requests determining future revenue estimates based on the future probability and setting the pricing curve based on the future revenue estimates.

The above example method may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein determining spectrum availability comprises determining if an amount of available spectrum is greater than an amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests. In this configuration the example method may further comprise if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests auctioning the available spectrum based on bids submitted by the requestors and allocating the available spectrum based on a highest bid to a lowest bid received during the auction. In this configuration the example method may further comprise setting an initial bid based on a minimum price determined from the pricing curve plus an empirical gap value. In this configuration the example method may further comprise if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests sorting the spectrum requests by predicted revenue generation and allocating the available spectrum based on the sorting. In this configuration the example method may be further configured wherein determining the predicted revenue for each spectrum request is based at least on the pricing curve.

In another example there is provided a system. The system may include means for setting a pricing curve based on usage data the pricing curve being usable for trading a spectrum of radio frequencies for use in wireless communication means for determining spectrum availability in view of spectrum requests received from requestors desiring to lease available spectrum and means for allocating the available spectrum to fulfill the spectrum requests based on the spectrum availability determination and the pricing curve.

The above example system may be further configured wherein setting the pricing curve based on usage data comprises means for determining if historical usage data is available and means for if it is determined that the historical usage data is not available setting the pricing curve using predetermined usage data. In this configuration the example system may further comprise means for if it is determined that the historical usage data is available determining future probability for receiving spectrum requests including at least one of certain spectrum quantity or certain lease duration the future probability being determined based on at least one of the historical usage data and the spectrum requests means for determining future revenue estimates based on the future probability and means for setting the pricing curve based on the future revenue estimates.

The above example system may be further configured alone or in combination with the above further configurations wherein determining spectrum availability comprises means for determining if an amount of available spectrum is greater than an amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests. In this configuration the example system may further comprise means for if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is less than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests auctioning the available spectrum based on bids submitted by the requestors and means for allocating the available spectrum based on a highest bid to a lowest bid received during the auction. In this configuration the example system may further comprise means for setting an initial bid based on a minimum price determined from the pricing curve plus an empirical gap value. In this configuration the example system may further comprise means for if it is determined that the amount of available spectrum is greater than the amount of spectrum requested in the spectrum requests sorting the spectrum requests by predicted revenue generation and means for allocating the available spectrum based on the sorting. In this configuration the example system may be further configured wherein determining the predicted revenue for each spectrum request is based at least on the pricing curve.

The terms and expressions which have been employed herein are used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof and it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the claims. Accordingly the claims are intended to cover all such equivalents.

