---

title: Compositions and methods for restoring or rejuvenating stem/progenitor cell function
abstract: This invention relates to the use of autologous stem/progenitor cells to restore or rejuvenate adult stem cell function in a mammal, wherein the restoration or rejuvenating extends lifespan and/or improves health of the mammal. In addition, the invention also relates to compositions containing one or more regulatory factors secreted or released from isolated mammalian stem/progenitor cells and use of such compositions to extend lifespan and/or improve health of a mammal. Also provided are methods of treating, delaying, preventing or reversing progeria or related syndromes in a mammal using isolated autologous or allogeneic stem/progenitor cells and/or regulatory factors secreted or released therefrom.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09295696&OS=09295696&RS=09295696
owner: University of Pittsburgh—Of the Commonwealth System of Higher Education
number: 09295696
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130607
---
This application claims the benefit U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 657 104 filed on Jun. 8 2012 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. AR051456 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The contents of the text file named 28682 511001US ST25.txt which was created on Jun. 6 2013 and is 7 KB in size are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates generally to the use of autologous or allogeneic stem or progenitor cells or factors that are secreted or released therefrom to restore or rejuvenate the function of endogenous stem or progenitor cells in a mammal. The invention also relates to methods for identifying candidate compounds or molecules that modulate expression function release and or secretion of one or more regulatory factors secreted or released from the stem or progenitor cells.

A universal characteristic of aging is the loss of regenerative capacity leading to an impaired ability to respond to stress and therefore increased morbidity and mortality. This loss of regenerative capacity suggests that aging is associated with or is caused in part by the loss of functional stem cells necessary for tissue regeneration.

Mice greater than two years of age are known to have a significant reduction in the number and proliferative capacity of neural stem cells and male germ line stem cells. In contrast hematopoietic stem cell HSC numbers are preserved as mice age but the function of the cells is impaired. Muscle satellite cells also lose stem cell properties with aging but how many satellite cells are present as the animal ages remains controversial. Aging related changes in bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells MSCs include loss of proliferation and differentiation potentials increase in senescence and loss of capacity to form bone in vivo. MSCs derived from the bone marrow of patients with Hutchinson Gilford progeria syndrome a disease of dramatically accelerated aging are defective in their ability to differentiate. Adipose derived multipotent cells display an age dependent loss of self renewal capacity and an increased propensity for adipogenesis.

Despite the observed correlation of decline in stem cell population with aging it is unclear whether the decline of number of stem cells or the dysfunction of remaining stem cells results in aging related degenerative changes.

Numerous studies provide evidence that the number and or function of diverse adult stem progenitor cell populations decline with aging. However these are largely correlative studies that do not discriminate if changes in the stem cell compartment play a causative role in aging or are merely a consequence of aging. Moreover prior studies fail to disprove that loss of stem cell population is not merely a biomarker of aging.

Genetic studies revealed proteins and pathways essential for the maintenance of stem cell function. Mutation of these genes leads to foreshortened lifespan and early onset of some aging related pathologies. For example mice deficient in the polycomb protein BMI 1 have a short lifespan along with defects in self renewal of HSCs leading to adult stem cell depletion. Similarly mice deficient in HMGA2 display reduced stem cell numbers and function self renewal throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems. Finally HSC function and regenerative capacity are significantly diminished in mice harboring mutations in diverse DNA repair genes or telomerase Lig4C Ku80 Xpd and mTR indicating that genome and telomere maintenance are crucial for stem cell function. However there is no evidence that loss of stem cell function is directly responsible for decreased lifespan and aging related pathology in these models.

Thus there is a need in the art for additional means for extending lifespan and or improving health in an aging or aged mammal.

The invention provides methods for restoring or rejuvenating adult stem progenitor cell function in a mammal in need thereof by administering an exogenous amount of isolated autologous or allogeneic stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells to the mammal wherein endogenous adult stem progenitor cells of the mammal are depleted or dysfunctional and wherein the isolated autologous or allogeneic stem progenitor cells secrete or release one or more regulatory factors wherein the one or more secreted stimulatory factors restore or rejuvenate the adult stem cell function.

For example restoring or rejuvenating adult stem progenitor cell function may extend lifespan and or improve health of the mammal.

In one embodiment between about 2 10and about 5 10stem progenitor cells per gram of body weight of a mammal may be administered to the mammal.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that restoring or rejuvenating adult stem progenitor cell function in a mammal treats delays prevents and or ameliorates one or more symptoms associated with aging. Moreover restoring or rejuvenating adult stem progenitor cell function in a mammal treats delays prevents and or ameliorates one or more symptoms of dystonia kyphosis ataxia sarcopenia incontinence lethargy and or trembling in a mammal.

Also provided are methods for restoring or rejuvenating adult stem progenitor cell function in a mammal wherein administration of isolated stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells promote neovascularization of a tissue in the mammal. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the tissue being neovascularized can be selected from for example bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver bladder ureter bone marrow ligaments tendons cartilage and or any combination s thereof.

In any of the methods of the invention the isolated autologous or allogeneic stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells are administered in combination with one or more mTOR inhibitors to the mammal and wherein the one or more mTOR inhibitors restore or rejuvenate the adult stem cell function. The one or more mTOR inhibitors may be administered prior to simultaneously with or following administration of the isolated stem progenitor cells. Examples of suitable mTOR inhibitors include for example sirolimus rapamycin RAPAMUNE everolimus ZORTRESS RAD001 temsirolimus TORISEL CCI 779 deforolimus AP23573 MK 8669 RIDAFOROLIMUS Torin1 Torin2 PP242 KU0063794 WYE 687 dihydrochloride WYE 354 WYE 125132 WAY 600 AZD8055 AZD2014 OSI 027 PP242 PF04691502 PF05212384 INK128 MLN0128 as well as derivatives analogs and or combination s thereof.

In any of the methods of the invention the administration of stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells promotes tissue regeneration in the mammal. For example the tissue being regenerated can be selected from for example bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver bladder ureter bone marrow ligaments tendons or cartilage and or any combination s thereof.

Also provided are methods for restoring or rejuvenating adult stem progenitor cell function in a mammal by extending lifespan of a mammal wherein the mammal carries a xeroderma pigmentosum complement group F mutation. The mice have a mutation in Excision repair cross complementation group 1. The effect of the mutation is reduced expression of the protein complex ERCC1 XPF. This models a human progeroid syndrome caused by mutations in XPF.

In other embodiments the invention further provides methods of treating preventing or reversing progeria or related syndromes e.g. a progeroid like syndrome in a mammal by administering an effective amount of isolated autologous or allogeneic stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells to the mammal wherein the isolated autologous or allogeneic stem cells secrete or release one or more regulatory factors wherein the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors treat prevent and or reverse one or more symptoms of progeria or related syndromes in the mammal.

In any of the methods of the invention administration of isolated stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells into a mammal stimulates regeneration of bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver bladder ureter bone marrow ligaments tendons cartilage and or any combination s thereof.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in any of the methods and compositions described herein stem progenitor cells can include by way of non limiting example skeletal muscle derived stem progenitor cells MDSPCs hematopoietic stem progenitor cells neural stem progenitor cells heart derived stem progenitor cells intestinal stem progenitor cells mesenchymal stem progenitor cells endothelial stem progenitor cells epithelial stem progenitor cells olfactory adult stem progenitor cells neural crest stem progenitor cells testicular stem progenitor cells embryonic stem cells placental derived stem progenitor cells amniotic fluid derived stem progenitor cells cord blood stem progenitor cells and or inducible pluripotent stem cells.

In addition in any of the methods of the invention restoring or rejuvenating adult stem cell function increases the body weight of the mammal.

Also provided are compositions containing one or more secreted or released regulatory factors from isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells .

By way of non limiting example the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors can be peptides proteins RNA microRNAs small non coding RNAs carbohydrates lipids hormones and or any mixture s thereof.

In one embodiment of the invention the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors isolated from mammalian stem progenitor cells can include RBP JK inhibitory factor Stanniocalcin 1 Wnt3a KLOTHO CCL11 miRNA 489 VEGF HGF IGF microvesicles and or exosomes.

These one or more secreted or released regulatory factors can stimulate regeneration of bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver bladder ureter bone marrow ligaments tendons cartilage and or any combination s thereof.

Moreover the one or more secreted or released factors of this invention promote neovascularization in bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver ureter bladder and or any combination s thereof.

In one embodiment of the invention the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors promotes tissue regeneration of one or more tissues selected from for example bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver bladder ureter bone marrow ligaments tendons and or cartilage.

In one embodiment of the invention the composition contains one or more secreted or released regulatory factors from isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells and or one or more mTOR inhibitors.

The invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions containing one or more regulatory factors secreted or released from isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.

In one embodiment of the invention the pharmaceutical composition contains one or more secreted or released regulatory factors from isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells and or one or more mTOR inhibitors and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.

Methods are also provided for extending lifespan of a mammal or improving health of a mammal or both by administering an effective amount of the composition containing one or more secreted or released regulatory factors from isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells to a mammal wherein endogenous adult stem progenitor cells in the mammal e.g. in the skeletal muscle of the mammal are depleted or dysfunctional due to age and wherein the composition extends lifespan and or improves health of said mammal.

Methods are also provided for extending lifespan of a mammal or improving health of a mammal or both by administering an effective amount of the composition containing one or more secreted or released regulatory factors from isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells and or one or more mTOR inhibitors to a mammal wherein endogenous adult stem progenitor cells in the mammal e.g. in the skeletal muscle of the mammal are depleted or dysfunctional due to age and wherein the composition extends lifespan and or improves health of said animal.

In one embodiment methods are provided for extending lifespan of a mammal or improving health of a mammal or both by administering an effective amount of the composition containing one or more mTOR inhibitors to a mammal to increase autophagy wherein the composition prevents loss of differentiation capacity of endogenous stem progenitor cells or extends lifespan and or improves health of said animal.

By means of non limiting example the administration of the composition may treat delay prevent and or ameliorate one or more symptoms in the mammal associated with one or more of aging dystonia kyphosis ataxia sarcopenia incontinence lethargy and or trembling.

Likewise any of the compositions of the invention can be used to promote neovascularization and or tissue regeneration in the mammal.

Additionally these compositions can be used to treat delay and or ameliorate one or more symptoms associated with aging in a mammal wherein the mammal carries Xeroderma pigmentosum complement group F mutation wherein the mammal has a progeroid like syndrome and or wherein the mammal has progeria.

This invention provides methods for identifying one or more candidate compounds that modulate expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors in a population of isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells wherein the method involves without being limited to the steps exposing said population of stem progenitor cells to the one or more candidate compounds determining expression of the one or more regulatory factors in the population of stem progenitor cells exposed to the candidate compound and in a control population of stem progenitor cells that are not exposed to the candidate compound and comparing the expression of the one or more regulatory factors in the exposed population of stem progenitor cells with expression in the control population of stem progenitor cells thereby identifying the one or more candidate compounds that modulate expression of the one or more secreted regulatory factors.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that when the expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors is greater in the exposed population compared to the control population the one or more candidate compound increases expression of the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors.

Similarly when the expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors is lower in the exposed population compared to the control population the one or more candidate compound decreases expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors.

In yet another embodiment of the invention methods are provided for treating preventing or reversing progeria or related syndromes in a mammal by administering an effective amount of a composition containing one or more secreted or released regulatory factors to the mammal wherein the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors treat prevent or reverse one or more symptoms of progeria or related syndromes in the mammal.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention have been set forth in the accompanying description below. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention the preferred methods and materials are now described. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and from the claims. In the specification and the appended claims the singular forms include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. All patents and publications cited in this specification are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

For convenience certain terms used in the specification examples and claims are collected here. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains.

The present invention relates to at least in part on the finding that allogeneic or autologous stem progenitor cells and or factors secreted or released from functional stem progenitor cells were able to restore or rejuvenate function of adult stem cells in mammals whose endogenous adult stem progenitor cells are depleted damaged and or dysfunctional. Accordingly the invention provides methods of restoring or rejuvenating stem progenitor cell function in mammals. The present invention is based on the discovery that when functional stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells are administered to a mammal these cells secrete or release factors that restore or rejuvenate the function of endogenous adult stem progenitor cells that are depleted damaged and or dysfunctional via paracrine means.

Transplantation of functional autologous or allogeneic stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells into hosts having dysfunctional damaged and or depleted adult stem progenitor cells e.g. MDSPCs and or administration of secreted or released factors isolated from stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells can lead to a significant extension of healthspan and or lifespan see .

The loss of adult stem cell function directly contributes to various aging related phenotypes. Therefore the administration of isolated stem progenitor cells and or factors released from such cells into a mammal having dysfunctional and or depleted adult stem progenitor cells can be used to increase lifespan and or improve health or healthspan of the mammal.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that any stem progenitor cells can be used in accordance with the methods and composition of the instant invention. For example stem progenitor cells can include by way of non limiting example skeletal muscle derived stem progenitor cells MDSPCs hematopoietic stem progenitor cells neural stem progenitor cells heart derived stem progenitor cells intestinal stem progenitor cells mesenchymal stem progenitor cells endothelial stem progenitor cells epithelial stem progenitor cells olfactory adult stem progenitor cells neural crest stem progenitor cells testicular stem progenitor cells embryonic stem cells placental derived stem progenitor cells amniotic fluid derived stem progenitor cells cord blood stem progenitor cells and or inducible pluripotent stem cells.

Adult stem cells hold great promise for regenerative medicine. Stem cells isolated from adult organisms have significant advantages over embryonic and fetal stem cells as therapeutic modalities. First adult stem cells by pass the substantial regulatory burden that accompanies the use and study of cells isolated from perinatal organisms. Second adult stem cells offer the possibility of autologous therapy. Using cells isolated from a patient to treat only that patient eliminates the risk of an immune rejection that could attenuate the therapeutic benefit or worse cause significant side effects. In addition autologous approaches for cell based therapies will accelerate the path to the clinic.

Adult stem cells have been isolated from the bone marrow brain muscle fat skin and gut. However MDSPCs offer several advantages over other adult stem cell populations for therapeutic applications. First skeletal muscle is relatively easy to access unlike for example brain and bone marrow. Second a relatively small amount of tissue is necessary to isolate a sufficient number of stem cells for treatment purposes. Third functional MDSPCs can be expanded substantially ex vivo which minimizes the amount of muscle that must be excised from a patient and also offers the possibility of treating a patient multiple times after a single procedure to isolate stem cells. Fourth there is evidence that MDSPCs isolated from older organisms which have lost their potency can be rejuvenated to behave more like MDSPCs isolated from young adults. This means that even the elderly may be eligible for autologous therapy. Fifth it is established that MDSPCs can be transduced with retroviral vectors expressing novel genes while maintaining their stem like properties. MDSP like cells isolated from humans show high regenerative potential in skeletal and cardiac muscle. Thus MDSPCs may potentially be used to treat inherited diseases of muscle degeneration for example muscular dystrophies. MDSPCs can differentiate into myogenic osteogenic chondrogenic adipogenic neural endothelial and hematopoietic cells. Therefore MDSPCs may be useful for treating degenerative diseases of multiple organ systems. Finally MDSPCs appear to elicit a therapeutic benefit at least in part by secreting factors that promote host rejuvenation. Thus therapeutic benefits may be achieved with fewer cells.

MDSPCs have been used to improve bone healing cartilage repair cardiac ischemia urinary incontinence and muscular injury including muscular dystrophy. Although MDSPCs are not a well defined homogenous cell type their tremendous potential for treating a wide spectrum of traumatic and degenerative changes supports the continued development and analysis of MDSPCs.

The musculoskeletal system undergoes degenerative changes with aging. MDSPCs are isolated from skeletal muscle a tissue that universally declines in mass and function with aging. Cells isolated from primary muscle tissue contain mixture of fibroblasts myoblasts adipocytes hematopoietic and muscle derived progenitor cells. The progenitor cells of a muscle derived population can be enriched using differential adherence characteristics of primary muscle cells on collagen coated tissue flasks such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. incorporated herein by reference . Cells that are slow to adhere tend to be morphologically round express high levels of desmin and have the ability to fuse and differentiate into multinucleated myotubes U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. . A subpopulation of these cells was shown to respond to recombinant human bone morphogenic protein 2 rhBMP 2 in vitro by expressing increased levels of alkaline phosphatase parathyroid hormone dependent 3 5 cAMP and osteogenic lineage and myogenic lineages. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 of Chancellor et al. T. Katagiri et al. 1994127 1755 1766 incorporated herein by reference .

MDSPCs have a capacity for long term proliferation are resistant to oxidative and inflammatory stress display multi lineage differentiation self renew induce neovascularization and stimulate regeneration of bone skeletal and cardiac muscles. MDSPCs likely reside in the perivascular niche. These characteristics raise the possibility that the loss of MDSPCs or related perivascular progenitor cells could contribute to sarcopenia osteoporosis and other degenerative diseases associated with aging.

For MDSPC based treatments a skeletal muscle explant is preferably obtained from an autologous or heterologous human or animal source. An autologous animal or human source is more preferred. MDSPC compositions are then prepared and isolated as described herein. To introduce or transplant the MDSPCs and or compositions comprising the MDSPCs according to the present invention into a human or animal recipient a suspension of mononucleated muscle cells is prepared. Such suspensions contain concentrations of the muscle derived progenitor cells of the invention in a physiologically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent. For example as an alternative to fetal bovine serum suspensions MDSPCs for administering to a subject can comprise 10to 10cells ml in a sterile solution of complete medium modified to contain the subject s serum. Alternatively MDSPC suspensions can be in serum free sterile solutions such as cryopreservation solutions CELOX Laboratories St. Paul Minn. . The MDSPC suspensions can then be introduced e.g. via injection into one or more sites of the donor tissue.

In another embodiment the invention also provides methods and compositions for restoring or rejuvenating adult stem progenitor cell function in a mammal for treating delaying preventing or ameliorating one or more symptoms associated with aging dystonia kyphosis ataxia sarcopenia incontinence lethargy and or trembling.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that in accordance with the instant invention isolated stem progenitor cells or secreted or released factors isolated from such stem progenitor cells promote neovascularization of a tissue in a mammal. For example the tissue for neovascularization may be selected from bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver bladder ureter bone marrow ligaments tendons cartilage and or any combination s thereof.

Additionally or alternatively administration of isolated stem progenitor cells or secreted or released factors isolated from such stem progenitor cells promote tissue regeneration in the mammal. By way of not limiting example the tissue being regenerated may include bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver bladder ureter bone marrow ligaments tendons or cartilage and or any combination s thereof.

Accordingly isolated stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells or isolated secreted or released factors from such stem progenitor cells can be administered to a mammal in order to stimulate regeneration of bone skeletal muscles cardiac muscles brain kidney spinal cord nervous system pancreas islets liver bladder ureter bone marrow ligaments tendons cartilage and or any combinations thereof.

XFE progeroid syndrome is caused by mutations in XPF xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group F and characterized by dramatically accelerated aging of the epidermal hematopoietic endocrine hepatobiliary renal nervous musculoskeletal and cardiovascular systems. XPF encodes one subunit of an endonuclease that together with its essential binding partner ERCC1 excision repair cross complementation group 1 participates in numerous DNA repair mechanisms. XFE progeroid syndrome was modeled in the mouse by mutation of the mErcc1 locus to titrate expression of ERCC1 XPF. Ercc1 mice with undetectable levels of ERCC1 XPF have a severely reduced lifespan of 1 month while Ercc1 mice expressing 10 of the normal level of ERCC1 XPF have a lifespan of 7 months. Both strains faithfully mimic the systemic accelerated aging of XFE progeroid syndrome and demonstrate a highly significant correlation with naturally aged mice at the level of histopathology pathophysiology and genome wide transcriptional reprogramming.

Isolated stem progenitor cells or isolated secreted or released factors from such stem progenitor cells can be administered to a mammal in order to treat prevent or reverse progeria or related syndromes in the mammal. Specifically upon administration the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors treat prevent or reverse one or more symptoms of progeria or related syndromes e.g. a progeroid like syndrome in the mammal. For example the mammal may carry a Xeroderma pigmentosum complement group F mutation.

Functional stem progenitor cells such as MDSPCs isolated from young or aged adult mammals can be administered to the tissues of the recipient organism of interest including humans and non human animals as a pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable preparation or composition containing a physiologically acceptable carrier excipient or diluents. By way of non limiting example MDSPC containing composition can be prepared by re suspending the cells in a suitable liquid or solution such as sterile physiological saline or other physiologically acceptable injectable aqueous liquids. The amounts of the components to be used in such compositions or preparations can be routinely determined by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The stem progenitor cells or compositions thereof can also be administered by placement of the cell suspensions onto absorbent or adherent material i.e. a collagen sponge matrix and insertion of the cell containing material into or onto the site of interest. Alternatively the stem progenitor cells can be administered by parenteral routes of injection including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular and intrasternal. Other modes of administration include but are not limited to intranasal intrathecal intracutaneous percutaneous enteral and sublingual. In one embodiment of the present invention administration of the stem progenitor cells can be mediated by endoscopic surgery.

For injectable administration the composition is in sterile solution or suspension or can be resuspended in pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable aqueous or oleaginous vehicles which may contain preservatives stabilizers and material for rendering the solution or suspension isotonic with body fluids i.e. blood of the recipient. Non limiting examples of excipients suitable for use include water phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 0.15 M aqueous sodium chloride solution dextrose glycerol dilute ethanol and the like and mixtures thereof. Illustrative stabilizers are polyethylene glycol proteins saccharides amino acids inorganic acids and organic acids which may be used either on their own or as admixtures. The amounts or quantities as well as the routes of administration used are determined on an individual basis and correspond to the amounts used in similar types of applications or indications known to those of skill in the art.

To optimize transplant success the closest possible immunological match between donor and recipient is desired. If an autologous source is not available donor and recipient Class I and Class II histocompatibility antigens can be analyzed to determine the closest match available. This minimizes or eliminates immune rejection and reduces the need for immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy. If required immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy can be started before during and or after the transplant procedure. For example cyclosporin A or other immunosuppressive drugs can be administered to the transplant recipient. Immunological tolerance may also be induced prior to transplantation by alternative methods known in the art. See D. J. Watt et al. 1984 Clin. Exp. Immunol. 55 419 D. Faustman et al. 1991 Science 252 1701 .

Consistent with the present invention the stem progenitor cells can be administered to body tissues including bone epithelial tissue i.e. skin lumen etc. connective tissue i.e. adipose cartilage ligament lymph etc. muscle tissue i.e. skeletal striated or smooth muscle and or various organ tissues such as those organs that are associated with the digestive system i.e. mouth tongue esophagus stomach liver pancreas gall bladder intestine anus etc. cardiovascular system i.e. heart veins arteries capillaries etc. respiratory system i.e. lungs trachea etc. reproductive system i.e. vas deferens scrotum testes penis fallopian tubes vagina clitoris uterus breasts ovaries vulva etc. urological system i.e. bladder urethra ureter kidneys etc. and nervous system i.e. brain spinal cord nerves etc. .

Any suitable dose of stem progenitor cells can be administered. For example between about 1 5 10and about 1 1.5 10stem progenitor cells per gram of body weight of a mammal can be administered. In one embodiment about 2 10to about 5 10stem progenitor cells per gram of body weight of a mammal is administered for restoring adult stem progenitor cell function. When administered via collagen sponge matrix about 0.5 1.0 10stem progenitor cells can be administered. Consistent with the Examples disclosed herein a skilled practitioner can modulate the amounts and methods of stem progenitor cells based treatments according to requirements limitations and or optimizations determined for each case.

In any of the methods and or compositions described herein any stem progenitor cell can be used. By way of non limiting example these may include skeletal muscle derived stem progenitor cells MDSPCs hematopoietic stem progenitor cells neural stem progenitor cells heart derived stem progenitor cells intestinal stem progenitor cells mesenchymal stem progenitor cells endothelial stem progenitor cells epithelial stem progenitor cells olfactory adult stem progenitor cells neural crest stem progenitor cells testicular stem progenitor cells embryonic stem cells placental derived stem progenitor cells amniotic fluid derived stem progenitor cells cord blood stem progenitor cells and or inducible pluripotent stem cells. In a preferred embodiment the isolated adult stem progenitor cells are MDSPCs.

Surprisingly the administration of isolated stem progenitor cells into a mammal resulted in an increase in body weight in the mammal. For example body weight of a mammal may be increased between 1 15 2 16 3 17 4 18 5 19 6 20 7 21 8 22 9 23 10 24 11 25 12 26 13 27 14 28 15 29 16 30 1 30 or 2 40 grams. The present invention provides that body mass index BMI of a mammalian subject would increase from 

The invention also provides compositions containing one or more secreted or released regulatory factors isolated from mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells . In some embodiments these compositions can be administered as pharmaceutical compositions containing the one or more regulatory factors secreted or released from the isolated stem progenitor cells and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. For example the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors can be peptides proteins RNA microRNAs small non coding RNAs carbohydrates lipids hormones and or mixtures thereof.

In one embodiment of the current invention one or more secreted or released regulatory factors isolated from mammalian adult stem progenitor cells can include for example RBP JK inhibitory factor Stanniocalcin 1 Wnt3a KLOTHO CCL11 miRNA 489 VEGF HGF IGF microvesicles or exosomes and or Her 2 neu ERBB2 c erbB 2 .

Likewise additional factors that may be secreted and or released in mammalian adult stem progenitor cells can include but are not limited to one or more of curHer 2 neu ERBB2 c erbB 2 osteocalcin stromelysin 1 prostate specific antigen human sodium iodide symporter H19 IF 1 IGF 2 thymosin 15 T cell factor cartilage derived retinoic acid sensitive protein insulin PEG 3 telomerase reverse transcriptase melanoma differentiation associated gene 7 prostasin telomerase catalytic subunit cyclin A midkine c erbB 2 prostate specific membrane antigen p51 telomerase RNA prostatic acid phosphatase PCA3 DF3 MUC1 hex II cyclooxygenase 2 super PSA skp2 PRL 3 CA125 M17S2 IAI.3B CRG L2 TRPM4 RTVP TARP telomere reverse transcriptase A4 amyloid protein amyloid protein precursor precursor of the Alzheimer s Disease A4 amyloid protein neuropeptide FF endoplasmic reticulum stress elements urocortin II tyrosine hydroxylase complement factor 3 serum amyloid A3 tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 TIMP 3 p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor tumor necrosis factor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor IIA 1 nonpancreatic secreted phospholipase A2 SOCS 3 SR BI Ob site 1 protease TIGR VL30 excitatory amino acid transporter 2 MDTS9 LIM pyrroline 5 carboxylate reductase SIM2 Bax fas bbc3 PINK 1 troponin T myoD actin smooth muscle 22 trophin myostatin smooth muscle myosin heavy chain cardiac ankyrin repeat protein MLP smoothelin MYBPC3 T 1 tubulin intercellular adhesion molecule 4 ICAM 4 aminobutyric acid type A receptor 1 subunit neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor 2 subunit presenilin 1 calcium calmodulin dependent kinase II CRF2 receptor nerve growth factor GLP 2 receptor type I transglutaminase K14 stearoyl CoA desaturase megsin prolactin GDF 9 PSP94 NRL NGAL long whey acidic protein mammary associated amyloid A endothelin 1 serglycin platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 PECAM 1 Tie receptor tyrosine kinase KDR flk 1 endoglin CCR5 CD11d platelet glycoprotein IIb preproendothelin 1 interleukin 18 binding protein CD34 Tec tyrosine kinase AC133 MLH1 MSH2 MSH6 PMS1 APC LEF 1 F2 receptor TGF type II receptor EYA4 PCA3 K2 PROST 03 PCAM 1 PCADM 1 PCA3dd3 PCAV PAcP ATB0 CSA 1 SYG972 Urb ctf BCU399 TBX2 Cyr61 DIAPH3 Human aspartyl asparaginyl beta hydroxylase BEHAB IL 8 BLSA BP1 DAP kinase HOXA9 ARP Nbk CD43 7 hcG 6 hCG 6e hCG 5 hCG 8 hcG 3 hCG MTA1s Old 35 Old 64 LAGE 1 CIF150 hTAFII150 P65 oncofetal protein Telomerase CYP1B1 14 3 3 NES1 CAR 1 HMGI MAG ELL2 Ephrin B2 WAF1 CIF130 C35 BMP2 BUB3 Polymerase kappa EAG1 EAG2 HMG I HLTF Barx2 Cables Pp 32r1 BMP4 TS10q23.3 Nuclear spindle associating protein PFTAIRE SEMA3B MOGp Fortilin IGFBP 3 Polyhomeotic 2 PNQALRE SCN5A miR15 miR16 Headpin PAOh1 SMO Hippo Mst2 PSMA like JAB1 NF AT P28ING5 MTG16 ErbB 2 HDAC9 GPBP MG20 KLF6 ARTS1 Dock 3 Annexin 8 MH15 DELTA N p73 RapR6 StarD10 Ciz1 HLJ1 RapR7 A34 Sef Killin SGA 1M TGF Type II receptor GCA associated genes PRV 1 Vezf1 MLP VEGI PRO256 AOP2 Remodelin Phosphodiesterase 4D Prostaglandin receptor subtype EP3 CARP HOP PLTP UCP 2 FLJ11011 Codanin 1 Resistin Archipelin Neuronatin Ncb5or 7B2 PTHrP PEX KChIP1 SLIT 3 CX3CR1 SMAP 2 IC RFX E2IG4 UCP2 Ob receptor Ob Dp1 NRG 1 Synapsin III NRG1AG1 AL 2 Proline dehydrogenase MNR2 ATM Ho 1 CON202 Ataxin 1 NR3B NIPA 1 DEPP adrenomedullin csdA Inf 20 EOPA SERT FRP 1 Serum amyloid A BMP2 BMPR1A ACLP Resistin like molecule Dlg5 TRANCE Matrilin 3 Synoviolin HIV LTR SHIVA EBI 1 EBI 2 EBI 3 NM23 family Eps8 Beta 10 Hair follicle growth factor Corneodesmosin GCR9 Bg FGF23 BBSR MIC 1 MIA 2 IL 17B Formylglycine generating enzyme LPLA2 CXCL1O HFE2A Notch regulated secreted factor Hes 1 TCF3 SLC11A1 CD14 TRL4 CSPG and or IL10.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that administration of an effective amount of the composition containing one or more regulatory factors secreted or released from one or more isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells to a mammal wherein endogenous adult stem progenitor cells in skeletal muscle of the mammal are depleted or dysfunctional i.e. due to age can be used to extend lifespan and or improve health of said mammal.

Also provided are compositions and methods for restoring or rejuvenating adult stem progenitor cell function by administering a bioactive composition containing one or more regulatory factors. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the bioactive compositions of the present invention consist of consist essentially of or comprise one or more regulatory factors. Exemplary bioactive compositions can include receptor ligands transcription factors and or regulatory molecules.

Receptor ligands include but are not limited to vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF A F fibroblast growth factors acidic and basic FGF 1 10 granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF insulin insulin growth factor or insulin like growth factor IGF insulin growth factor binding protein IGFBP placenta growth factor PIGF angiopoietin Ang1 and Ang2 platelet derived growth factor PDGF hepatocyte growth factor HGF transforming growth factor TGF TGF isoforms 1 3 platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 PECAM 1 vascular endothelial cadherin VE cadherin nitric oxide NO chemokine C X C motif ligand 10 CXCL10 or IP 10 interleukin 8 IL 8 hypoxia inducible factor HIF monocyte chemotactic protein 1 MCP 1 vascular cell adhesion molecule VCAM ephrin ligands including Ephrin B2 and B4 .

Transcription factors include but are not limited to HIF 1 HIF 1 and HIF 2 Ets 1 Hex Vezf1 Hox GATA LKLF COUP TFII Hox MEF2 Braf Prx 1 Prx 2 CRP2 SmLIM and GATA family members basic helix loop helix factors and their inhibitors of differentiation.

This invention also provides methods for identifying one or more candidate compounds that modulate expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors in a population of isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells where the method involves the steps of but is not limited to exposing the population of stem progenitor cells to the one or more candidate compounds determining the expression of the one or more regulatory factors in the population of stem progenitor cells exposed to the candidate compounds and in a control population of stem cells that are not exposed to the candidate compound and comparing the expression of the one or more regulatory factors in the exposed population of stem progenitor cells with expression in the control population of stem progenitor cells thereby identifying one or more candidate compounds that modulate expression of the one or more secreted regulatory factors.

In any of these screening methods when the expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors is greater in the exposed population compared to the control population the one or more candidate compound increases expression of the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors.

Likewise when the expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors is lower in the exposed population compared to the control population the one or more candidate compound decreases expression of the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors.

mTOR also known as target of rapamycin or FK506 binding protein 12 rapamycin associated protein 1 FRAP1 is a serine threonine protein kinase that helps to integrate cellular activities in response to nutrients stress and extracellular signals including hormones and locally produced growth factors see Stanfel et al. 20091790 1067 1074 Martin et al. 200517 158 166 . The mTOR signaling pathways play different roles during development and adulthood in metazoans see Wullschleger et al. 2006124 471 484 . During development mTOR primarily controls growth whereas in adults mTOR controls aging and other aspects of nutrient related physiology see Ramos et al. 20124 . Abnormally increased activation of the mTOR pathway may lead to stem cell exhaustion and accelerating aging see Chen et al. 20092 75 Gan et al. 20098 1003 1006 and Chen et al. 2008205 2397 2408 .

mTOR also regulates protein synthesis through the phosphorylation of 4E BP1 and p70 S6 see Ma et al. 200910 307 318 . p70 S6 is among the major downstream targets of the mTOR pathway and deletion of the p70 S6 gene increases lifespan in mice and retards the aging of bone the immune system and skeletal muscle. Inhibition of mTOR signaling may prevent or delay some aging processes due to depleted or dysfunctional MDPSCs through regulation of p70 S6.

Another important function of the mTOR signaling pathway is the regulation of autophagy a process in which the cell degrades damaged or excess cellular components from individual proteins and protein aggregates to whole organelles through the lysosomal machinery of the cell. Recent studies provided evidence that insufficient autophagy is implicated in normal aging. Stem cells lose their capacity to self renew and differentiate when autophagy is disrupted hence the cells essentially lose their sternness see Salemi et al. 201222 432 435 . Inhibition of mTOR signaling slows the progeric aging process. Thus inhibition of mTOR signaling may prevent the loss of differentiation potential through increased autophagy.

In any of the methods described herein isolated autologous or allogeneic stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells may be administered in combination with one or more mTOR inhibitors to the mammal wherein endogenous adult stem progenitor cells of the mammal are depleted or dysfunctional and wherein the one or more mTOR signaling inhibitors restore or rejuvenate the adult stem cell function. The one or more mTOR inhibitors may be administered prior to simultaneously with or following administration of the isolated stem progenitor cells.

In any of the methods and or compositions described herein one or more mTOR inhibitor may be used for preventing or slowing aging and or preventing stem cell exhaustion or loss of differentiation potential of MDSPCs. The invention also provides compositions that additionally contain one or more regulatory factors secreted or released from isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells and or one or more mTOR inhibitors. Methods are also provided for extending lifespan of a mammal or improving health of a mammal or both by administering an effective amount of the composition containing one or more regulatory factors secreted or released from isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells and one or more mTOR inhibitor to a mammal wherein endogenous adult stem progenitor cells in the mammal e.g. in the skeletal muscle of the mammal are depleted or dysfunctional due to age and wherein the composition extends lifespan and or improves health of said animal.

As used herein an mTOR inhibitor may be a peptide RNA microRNA hormone or small molecule that decreases mTOR activity. Decreases in mTOR activity can be readily measured by one skilled in the art and may include decreased phosphorylation of downstream mTOR targets e.g. 4EBP1 and p70 S6 and or decreased assembly into mTOR Complex 1 mTORC1 or mTOR Complex 2 mTORC2 .

MTOR inhibitors may include but are not limited to one or more of sirolimus rapamycin rapamune everolimus ZORTRESS RAD001 temsirolimus TORISEL CCI 779 deforolimus AP23573 MK 8669 RIDAFOROLIMUS Torin1 Torin2 PP242 KU0063794 WYE 687 dihydrochloride WYE 354 WYE 125132 WAY 600 AZD8055 AZD2014 OSI 027 PP242 PF04691502 PF05212384 INK128 MLN0128 as well as derivatives analogs and or combination s thereof.

The present invention provides MDSPCs comprised of early progenitor cells also termed muscle derived progenitor cells or muscle derived stem cells herein that show long term survival rates following transplantation into body tissues preferably soft tissues. To obtain the MDSPCs of this invention a muscle explant preferably skeletal muscle is obtained from an animal donor preferably from a mammal including humans. This explant serves as a structural and functional syncytium including rests of muscle precursor cells. See T. A. Partridge et al. 1978 Nature 73 306 8 B. H. Lipton et al. 1979 Science 205 12924 .

In one embodiment a preplating procedure may be used to differentiate rapidly adhering cells from slowly adhering cells MDSPCs .

Populations of rapidly adhering cells PP1 4 and slowly adhering round MDSPCs PP6 were isolated and enriched from skeletal muscle explants and tested for the expression of various markers using immunohistochemistry to determine the presence of pluripotent cells among the slowly adhering cells. See Example 1 in U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 filed Apr. 30 1999 . The PP6 cells expressed myogenic markers including desmin MyoD and Myogenin. The PP6 cells also expressed c met and MNF two genes which are expressed at an early stage of myogenesis. See J. B. Miller et al. 1999 Curr. Top. Dev. Biol. 43 191 219 . The PP6 showed a lower percentage of cells expressing M cadherin a satellite cell specific marker see A. Irintchev et al. 1994 Development Dynamics 199 326 337 but a higher percentage of cells expressing Bcl 2 a marker limited to cells in the early stages of myogenesis see J. A. Dominov et al. 1998 J. Cell Biol. 142 537 544 . The PP6 cells also expressed CD34 a marker identified with human hematopoietic progenitor cells as well as stromal cell precursors in bone marrow. See R. G. Andrews et al. 1986 Blood 67 842 845 C. I. Civin et al. 1984 J. Immunol. 133 157 165 L. Fina et al 1990 Blood 75 2417 2426 P. J. Simmons et al. 1991 Blood 78 2848 2853 . The PP6 cells also expressed Flk 1 a mouse homologue of human KDR gene which was recently identified as a marker of hematopoietic cells with stem cell like characteristics. See B. L. Ziegler et al. 1999 Science 285 1553 1558 . Similarly the PP6 cells expressed Sca 1 a marker present in hematopoietic cells with stem cell like characteristics. See M. van de Rijn et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 4634 8 M. Osawa et al. 1996 J. Immunol. 156 3207 14 . However the PP6 cells did not express the CD45 or c Kit hematopoietic stem cell markers. See L K. Ashman 1999 Int. J. Biochem. Cell. Biol. 31 1037 51 G. A. Koretzky 1993 FASEB J. 7 420 426 .

The PP6 population of muscle derived progenitor cells expresses the desmin CD34 and Bcl 2 cell markers. The PP6 cells are isolated by the techniques described herein Example 1 to obtain a population of muscle derived progenitor cells that have long term survivability following transplantation. The PP6 muscle derived progenitor cell population comprises a significant percentage of cells that express progenitor cell markers such as desmin CD34 and Bcl 2. In addition PP6 cells express the Flk 1 and Sca 1 cell markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit markers. Preferably greater than 95 of the PP6 cells express the desmin Sca 1 and Flk 1 markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit markers. It is preferred that the PP6 cells are utilized within about 1 day or about 24 hours after the last plating.

In another embodiment the rapidly adhering cells and slowly adhering cells MDSPCs are separated from each other using a single plating technique. First cells are provided from a skeletal muscle biopsy. The biopsy need only contain about 100 mg of cells. Biopsies ranging in size from about 50 mg to about 500 mg are used according to both the pre plating and single plating methods of the invention. Further biopsies of 50 100 110 120 130 140 150 200 250 300 400 and 500 mg are used according to both the pre plating and single plating methods of the invention. In one embodiment the tissue from biopsy is processed within 24 hours after it is procured.

The tissue from the biopsy is then stored for 1 to 30 days. This storage is at a temperature from about room temperature to about 4 C. This waiting period causes the biopsied skeletal muscle tissue to undergo stress. While this stress is not necessary for the isolation of MDSPCs using this single plate technique using the wait period results in a greater yield of MDSPCs.

Tissue from the biopsies is minced and centrifuged. The pellet is resuspended and digested using a digestion enzyme. Enzymes that may be used include collagenase dispase or combinations of these enzymes. After digestion the enzyme is washed off of the cells. The cells are transferred to a flask in culture media for the isolation of the rapidly adhering cells. Many culture media may be used. Particularly preferred culture media include those that are designed for culture of endothelial cells including Cambrex Endothelial Growth Medium. This medium may be supplemented with other components including fetal bovine serum IGF 1 bFGF VEGF EGF hydrocortisone heparin and or ascorbic acid. Other media that may be used in the single plating technique include InCell M310F medium. This medium may be supplemented as described above or used unsupplemented.

The step for isolation of the rapidly adhering cells may require culture in flask for a period of time from about 30 to about 120 minutes. The rapidly adhering cells adhere to the flask in 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 or 120 minutes. After they adhere the slowly adhering cells are separated from the rapidly adhering cells from removing the culture media from the flask to which the rapidly adhering cells are attached to.

The culture medium removed from this flask is then transferred to a second flask. The cells may be centrifuged and resuspended in culture medium before being transferred to the second flask. The cells are cultured in this second flask for between 1 and 3 days. Preferably the cells are cultured for two days. During this period of time the slowly adhering cells MDSPCs adhere to the flask. After the MDSPCs have adhered the culture media is removed and new culture media is added so that the MDSPCs can be expanded in number. The MDSPCs may be expanded in number by culturing them for from about 10 to about 20 days. The MDSPCs may be expanded in number by culturing them for 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 days. Preferably the MDSPCs are subject to expansion culture for 17 days.

As an alternative to the pre plating and single plating methods the MDSPCs of the present invention can also be isolated by fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS analysis using labeled antibodies against one or more of the cell surface markers expressed by the MDSPCs. See C. Webster et al. 1988 Exp. Cell. Res. 174 252 65 J. R. Blanton et al. 1999 Muscle Nerve 22 43 50 . For example FACS analysis can be performed using labeled antibodies to directed to CD34 Flk 1 Sca 1 and or the other cell surface markers described herein to select a population of PP6 like cells that exhibit long term survivability when introduced into the host tissue. Additionally one or more fluorescence detection labels for example fluorescein or rhodamine can be used for antibody detection of different cell marker proteins.

Another embodiment of the invention provides an optimized method of the pre plating method defined herein as the modified pre plate method to isolate stem progenitor cells from skeletal muscle. The modified pre plate method separates different populations of myogenic cells based on their propensity to adhere to collagen I coated surface. Based on their surface markers and stem like properties including self renewal multi lineage differentiation and ability to promote tissue regeneration the last cell fraction or slowest to adhere to the collagen coated surface pre plate 6 pp6 appear to be early quiescent progenitor cells termed muscle derived stem progenitor cells MDSPCs . The cell fractions preceding pp6 pp1 5 are likely populations of more committed differentiated cells including fibroblast and myoblast like cells. This technique may be used to isolate MDSPCs from skeletal muscle of humans or mice regardless of age sex or disease state. However the yield of MDSPCs varies with age and health. MDSPCs can be used for regeneration of a variety of tissues including bone articular cartilage skeletal and cardiac muscle and nerve.

In accordance with the methods and compositions of the invention MDSPCs from young mice have been demonstrated to extend lifespan and or improve healthspan in mouse models of accelerated aging through an apparent paracrine endocrine mechanism.

Using any of the MDSPCs isolation methods described above MDSPCs that are to be transported or are not going to be used for a period of time may be preserved using methods known in the art. More specifically the isolated MDSPCs may be frozen to a temperature ranging from about 25 to about 90 C. Preferably the MDSPCs are frozen at about 80 C. on dry ice for delayed use or transport. Freezing may be accomplished with any cryopreservation medium known in the art.

MDSPCs were isolated from old WT mice and mice with accelerated aging using the pre plate technique. In both mice cell proliferation and multilineage differentiation is significantly impaired relative to MDSPCs isolated from young WT mice see . Furthermore fewer cells expressing stem progenitor cell markers are isolated from skeletal muscles of aged and progeroid mice see and muscle from aged and progeroid mice has significantly reduced regenerative capacity following injury see .

These results establish that as with neuronal mesenchymal hematopoietic satellite and adipose stem cells function of MDSPCs is compromised with aging. The similarity of deficits in MDSPCs from old WT and progeroid mice extends the commonalities between accelerated aging caused by a defect in DNA repair and natural aging. Similar parallels have been found between Hutchinson Gilford progeria syndrome and aging in the MSC compartment.

Determination of the effect of increased oxidative DNA damage ROS and or NF B activity on MDSPCs function with aging.

DNA damage ROS and NF B activation all contribute to stem progenitor cell dysfunction with aging. It has been demonstrated that MDSPCs isolated from the skeletal muscle of naturally aged mice and progeroid ERCC1 deficient mice have a reduced ability to proliferate and differentiate compared to MDSPCs isolated from normal WT littermates. However what drives stem progenitor cell dysfunction associated with aging is unclear. Experiments have demonstrated that both accelerated and naturally aged mice have increased oxidative DNA damage in multiple tissues but whether stem progenitor cells in aged mice also have a similar increase in oxidative DNA damage is unknown.

Young MDSPCs have been observed to be more resistant to oxidative and inflammatory stress likely due to their expression of high levels of antioxidants relative to more differentiated myoblasts. In contrast aged MDSPCs have higher levels of ROS which appears to contribute to their dysfunction since potent anti oxidants improve their function. It has also been demonstrated that the transcription factor NF B which is activated by genotoxic oxidative and inflammatory stress contributes to MDSPCs dysfunction since genetic and pharmacologic reduction of NF B activity improves proliferation and differentiation. The ability of the MDSPCs to proliferate and undergo myogenesis osteogenesis functional MDSPCs and adipogenesis dysfunctional MDSPCs is determined for all the treatment regimes.

Finally the effect of inflammatory stress on MDSPCs is determined by treatment with IL 1 and IL 1 . In addition to the analysis of the effects of inflammatory genotoxic and oxidative stress on cell autonomous proliferation and differentiation and non autonomous rescue of function of aged MDSPCs with condition media in culture the extent of oxidative DNA damage in MDSPCs isolated from young old and ERCC1 deficient mice is measured. To determine the role of NF B in driving MDSPC dysfunction similar experiments are performed but using MDSPCs derived from p65 mice or by treating the cells with an IKK inhibitor.

In addition as controls MDSPCs are also isolated from the different Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65 mouse strains in carrying mutations in NEMODK TNF Rand MyD88. Different strains of mice are treated with IL 1 menandione XJB and MEC to examine the role of NF B in driving aging in response to oxidative genotoxic and or inflammatory stress in vivo. Thus MDSPCs are isolated from these treated and untreated strains and measure the extent of oxidative DNA damage apoptosis senescence ROS and NF B activation and ability of conditioned media to rescue aged MDSPCs. It is important to note the number of MDSPCs also is examined to determine if specific treatments affect the number of MDSPCs in addition to their function.

MDSPCs isolated from ERCC1 deficient and naturally aged mice exhibit limited proliferation and myogenic differentiation potentials in vitro and in vivo. One of the inherent characteristics of stem cells is their ability to undergo long term self renewal through cell division. The in vitro proliferation behaviors of the MDSPCs were examined using a robotic time lapsed microscopic live cell imaging LCI system Automated Cell Inc. . The results indicated that the proliferation of MDSPCs isolated from the old WT Ercc1 and Ercc1 mice was significantly impaired relative to MDSPCs isolated from young WT mice. In order to determine the myogenic differentiation capacity of the MDSPCs isolated from ERCC1 deficient and naturally aged mice MDSPCs were stained for fast myosin heavy chain f MyHC 3 days after cultured in differentiation medium. The degree of myogenic differentiation was significantly reduced in old WT Ercc1 and Ercc1 MDSPCs relative to young WT MDSPCs P

The WT MDSPCs fused both together and with the host muscle fibers to form large dystrophin positive myofibers. Conversely the Ercc1 MDSPCs appeared not to fuse well with the host muscle fibers since the dystrophin positive regenerated myofibers observed were significantly smaller in diameter as compared to the WT litter mate MDSPCs.

ERCC1 deficient MDSPCs displayed a lower resistance to stress when compared to WT MDSPCs. To test if ERCC1 deficient MDSPCs were hypersensitive to oxidative stress WT and Ercc1 MDSPCs were exposed to 200 M hydrogen peroxide oxidative stress and cell survival determined by counting the number of PI positive cells in the fluorescent images at each 12 hr time point. WT MDSPCs were able to survive oxidative stress at higher rates than Ercc1 and Ercc1 with significantly increased cell survival seen at 60 and 72 hours after treatment with hydrogen peroxide P

MDSPCs isolated from naturally old WT and Ercc1 show increased oxidative stress. Elevation of ROS primarily generated by mitochondria in response to cellular damage including DNA damage is implicated in aging. Therefore the levels of ROS produced by MDSPCs were measured using MitoSOX a fluorescence dye taken up by mitochondria that react specifically with superoxide anion using LCI system. The preliminary results revealed significant increases in ROS production in MDSPCs isolated from Ercc1 in comparison to young WT MDSPCs.

Reduction of NF B improved the proliferation potential of MDSPCs and increased lifespan of Ercc1. Reducing NF B activity by knocking out a single p65 allele p65 improves proliferation and myogenic differentiation of MDSPCs. To examine the role of the NF B pathway in mediating age related histopathology and disease p65 mice were crossed with Ercc1 and Ercc1 mice to generate Ercc1 mice heterozygous for p65. Although these transgenic mice do not differ grossly at birth from Ercc1 mice the reduction of p65 increased lifespan in Ercc1 mice and healthspan in Ercc1 mice. MDSPCs were isolated from Ercc1 mice 16 days and analyzed cell proliferation by LCI system and Ki67 immuno staining. Ercc1 p65 MDSPCs displayed a significant increase in proliferation compared to Ercc1 MDSPCs P

Reduction of NF B enhances the myogenic differentiation potential and resistance to stress in MDSPCs isolated from naturally aged mice. To determine further whether the NF B signaling pathway plays a role in driving age related stem cell dysfunction whether pharmacologic inhibition of IKK would restore the myogenic potential of aged WT MDSPCs was examined. Strikingly treatment with 3 mM of the IKK inhibitor IV IKKi under fusion conditions significantly increased the fusion index of aged MDSPCs. MDSPCs were isolated from 30 month old p65 and 24 month old WT mice and compared the myogenic potential of 30 month old p65 MDSPCs in vitro to naturally aged WT MDSPCs. The results confirmed that MDSPCs from p65 aged mice 30 month were more myogenic than MDSPCs from 24 month old WT mice. These results support the hypothesis that in the context of aging NF B p65 signaling may be dysregulated therefore contributing to the aged phenotype of stem progenitor cells. Furthermore the preliminary results demonstrated that reduction of NF B p65 improved aged MDSPC survival under oxidative stress conditions as measured by LCI system over a 24 hr period.

Increased DNA damage in skeletal muscle through tissue specific inactivation of Ercc1 will lead to MDSPCs dysfunction through a non cell autonomous mechanism. MDSPCs isolated from the skeletal muscle of ERCC1 deficient and aged WT mice are defective in their proliferation and differentiation capacities. Although this is consistent with the concept that the accumulation of damage directly to the stem progenitor cells cell autonomous contributes to the loss of tissue regeneration and homeostasis associated with aging a potential defect in the stem cell niche or circulating factors could also affect MDSPC function in a non autonomous manner. Indeed there is evidence that aging and disease affects the stem cell niche impacting stem cell function via a non autonomous mechanism. Similarly the function of stem progenitor cells can be adversely affected by factors circulating in the serum of aged mice. Therefore it remains unclear if aging related loss of adult stem cell function is primarily driven by cell autonomous increased DNA damage and or non autonomous mechanisms aged microenvironment or circulating factors .

Thus the goal is to characterize the mechanism through which MDSPCs become dysfunctional with aging using mouse models of tissue and cell type specific inactivation of Ercc1. Through tissue specific knockout of ERCC1 it can be determined whether damage accumulation in one cell type or tissue e.g. skeletal muscle endothelial cells will have a similar effect as observed with MDSPCs from aged and ERCC1 deficient mice. Initially to determine if there is a systemic effect on driving MDSPC dysfunction with aging heterochronic parabiosis will be performed.

Aged and young WT mice are paired as well WT and Ercc1 mice. At different time points MDSPCs will be isolated from the skeletal muscle of both mice and analyzed for their number and function compared to age matched controls. For these experiments young C57BL 10J mice that express that express CD45.2 on their leukocytes and aged SJL J mice that express CD45.1 will be used. Alternatively young mice expressing eGFP constitutively are paired with either aged or Ercc1 mice. The use of eGFP or different CD45 alleles will allow for the determination of the host origin of the MDSPCs as well as the extent of chimerism.

In order to determine whether aging of the MDSPCs microenvironment affects MDSPC function strains of mice with a deletion of ERCC1 specifically in muscle fibers Cre expressed from a muscle creatine kinase promoter and in endothelial cells Cre expressed from the ve cadherin promoter are generated. Initially the extent of damage and angiogenesis in muscle are examined to determine the effect of the tissue specific ERCC1 deletion over time. Then MDSPCs are isolated from these mice starting at the time when pathology is typically observed in the skeletal muscle tissue Ercc1 in the mice with a tissue specific deletion of ERCC1. The isolated MDSPCs are analyzed for number extent of proliferation and differentiation as well as for the ability of their conditioned media to rescue aged MDSPCs. In addition the level of oxidative DNA damage ROS senescence and NF B activation is also measured. If the parabiosis experiments demonstrate the presence of circulating factors contributing to MDSPC dysfunction with aging the effect that accelerated aging of a panel of specific tissue and cell types on MDSPC function will be examined. For these experiments mice with ERCC1 deleted in hepatocytes cells immune cells macrophages different kidney cell types podocytes and tubular epithelia and possibly other tissues are used. Again MDSPCs are isolated from animals at different ages and analyzed as described above. In this manner it can be determined if MDSPCs with WT ERCC1 becomes dysfunctional through a non cell autonomous mechanism s .

Preliminary results supporting the dysfunction in aged MDSPCs observed in culture correlates with limited muscle regeneration after injury in vivo. To determine whether the dysfunction observed in aged progeroid MDSPCs in culture can also be observed in vivo the extent of muscle regeneration between aged progeroid and young mice utilizing a well established cardiotoxin injury induction model was examined. There was a dramatic difference in the average cross sectional area of the regenerated myofibers in old and progeroid mice compared to young adult mice. In addition Masson s Trichrome stain revealed increased fibrosis in the muscle of old and progeroid mice in comparison to young WT mice following injury. These results suggest that a loss of function and or number of MDSPCs in aged progeroid mice leads to a reduction in muscle regeneration and repair after injury.

Defective muscle regenerative process observed in dystrophic mice also correlated with a MDSPCs defect. The dystrophin utrophin double knock out mouse dKO model is a far more severely affected and more reliable mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD . In fact muscle regeneration and the extent of muscle fibrosis are severe in the dKO skeletal muscle. Like ERCC1 deficient mice dKO mice have a limited lifespan 6 10 weeks . The dKO mice has also been used as a model of muscle damage to determine if there is a cell non autonomous effect of the damaged muscle microenvironment on 6 week old dKO derived MDSPCs compared to aged matched controls. The proliferation kinetics of both populations in culture was examined using LCI system and a significant reduction in the proliferation capacity of the dKO MDSPCs when compared to WT MDSPCs P

These results demonstrated that a muscle disease associated with a defective muscle regeneration process also leads to a defect in MDSPCs similar to that observed with the aged progeroid MDSPCs. Furthermore these results suggest that muscle damage indeed can contribute to MDSPCs dysfunction through a non cell autonomous mechanism.

Tissue specific knockout of ERCC1 XPF in the mouse brain leads to a reduction in neuronal progenitors. Mice with deletion of ERCC1 specifically in neurons in the brain have been generated. Sections from the brain of these mice showed a loss of cells in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus usually comprised of neuronal progenitors capable of neurogenesis in adult mice. These results suggest that the loss of ERCC1 in neurons has an adverse effect on neuronal progenitor cells providing further support to the proposed experiments to examine the effect of targeted aging of the microenvironment or distant tissues on MDSPC number and function.

Functional MDSPCs ameliorate pathology associated with accelerated aging by reducing endogenous NF B activation ROS and oxidative DNA damage through paracrine endocrine mechanisms. IP delivery of young WT MDSPCs into Ercc1 and Ercc1 mice leads to a significant extension of lifespan and healthspan. Injection of WT MDSPCs increases neovascularization in different tissues. Since oxidative DNA damage increases with both natural and accelerated aging in multiple tissues the ability of systemic treatment with young not aged MDSPCs to reduce oxidative DNA damage and ROS following injection into aged and Ercc1 mice are examined. Similarly the ability of the injected young MDSPCs to reduce cellular senescence as well as rejuvenate endogenous aged progeroid MDSPCs will be determined.

10young MDSPCs are injected into either Ercc1 NF BeGFP mice at day 14 Ercc1 NF B eGFP mice at week 5 or naturally aged 30 month old NF BeGFP reporter mice. As a control a similar number of Ercc1 MDSPCs or PBS is used. The treated mice are sacrificed at 2 and 4 weeks post injection and analyzed for the extent of oxidative DNA damage NF B activation ROS levels and cellular senescence. If necessary mouse models carrying either the p16INK4 Luciferase or p16INK4 Tomato can be used to assess effects on senescence in vivo.

For analysis of angiogenesis a Tie2eGFP reporter mouse is used along with analysis of blood vessels by staining with a CD31 antibody. The extent of engraftment of the MDSPCs in different tissues is analyzed by transducing the MDSPCs prior to injection with a retroviral vector expressing a nuclear localizing LacZ gene. Finally whether the injection of young MDSPCs can rejuvenate endogenous aged progeroid MDSPCs as suggested by transwell experiments will be examined.

The injection of Ercc1 mice with 10young MDSPCs results in a pronounced weight gain greater than 50 of initial weight and more than a doubling of their normal life expectancy compared to PBS and fibroblast treated Ercc1 mice. In addition some of the typical symptoms of accelerated aging such as kyphosis dystonia muscle wasting growth retardation cachexia and loss of vision were greatly attenuated in the MDSPC IP injected Ercc1 mice. IP injection of WT MDSPCs into 6 7 week old Ercc1 mice also showed the trend of extending lifespan in 80 of the MDSPC injected mice in comparison to PBS injected littermates 28 versus 22 weeks respectively . More importantly MDSPC transplantation delayed the onset of the majority of the age related pathologies in these mice n 5 pairs P 0.0006 .

Transplantation of WT MDSPCs IM and IP induces angiogenesis in skeletal muscle. Given that only a very few donor LacZ positive MDSPCs were detected in host tissues the anti aging effects of the young WT MDSPCs is potentially mediated through a paracrine or endocrine mechanism. Since the beneficial effect of MDSPCs in various tissues like skeletal muscle heart and bone is related at least in part through neo angiogenesis it was investigated whether the degree of angiogenesis in the skeletal muscle of these injected progeroid mice was increased. Vascularity of the host muscle tissue was analyzed by co staining dystrophin to highlight muscle fibers and CD31 to identify capillary endothelial cells. Muscles of 15 day old Ercc1 mice non injected had significantly reduced numbers of CD31 cells at the periphery of muscle fibers compared to their WT littermates 0.56 CD31 cells fiber vs. 1.25 for WT mice P

Microvasculature in the brain of ERCC1 deficient mice is reduced in comparison to WT mice but the IP transplantation of WT MDSPCs induces angiogenesis in the brain. IP treatment of Ercc1 mice with MDSPCs resulted in dramatically improved neovascularization in the cerebral cortex compared to untreated mutant animals. Tissue sections of the cerebral cortex were immunostained for the endothelial marker CD31 to identify microvasculature. Untreated Ercc1 mice showed a significantly decreased vascular area 1.2 in their brains compared to WT littermates 2.5 at 21 days of age. Progeroid mice IP injected with young WT MDSPCs showed significantly improved neovascularization in the brain at 21 days 2.2 indistinguishable from age matched WT mice P

Co culture of WT MDSPCs with Ercc1 MDSPCs rescued the proliferation defect of Ercc1 MDSPCs. To examine a possible mechanism behind the beneficial effect of implanted WT MDSPCs on the ERCC deficient mice MDSPCs isolated from Ercc1 deficient mice at 14 days and WT MDSPCs were co cultured. Using the LCI system the proliferation behavior of the Ercc1 MDSPCs was examined for a period of 70 hrs. Consistent with previous results the Ercc1 MDSPCs like the Ercc1 MDSPCs showed a slower proliferation rate than WT MDSPCs indicating a possible defect in the MDSPC compartment in both accelerated aging mouse models in the co culture assay. In contrast the Ercc1 MDSPCs not only did not undergo senescence but their proliferation ability increased significantly when co cultured with WT MDSPCs P

Conditioned media from young WT MDSPCs restored the function of aged MDSPCs. The results of recent studies have shown that culturing Ercc1 MDSPCs with WT MDSPCs culture conditioned medium can also rescue at least in part the differentiation defects observed in the Ercc1 MDSPCs suggesting the paracrine effect that the Ercc1 MDSPCs impart on the Ercc MDSPCs. See Lavasani et al. 3 608 DOI 10.1038 ncomms1611 2012 incorporated by reference all references cited herein . After culturing the Ercc1 MDSPCs with WT MDSPCs conditioned medium the ability of the cells to undergo myogenic differentiation was improved. Likewise impaired differentiation of old WT MDSPCs was also rescued by conditioned media from young WT MDSPCs. These results support the hypothesis that the WT MDSPCs could increase proliferation and inhibit the senescence of the progeroid Ercc1 and old WT MDSPCs probably through the release of secreted or released factors. These results may also explain the underlying mechanism s that the WT MDSPCs impart to improve the histopathology of the Ercc1 mice after being implanted IP.

The factors secreted specifically by functional stem cells able to improve age dependent tissue homeostasis and neoangiogenesis can be identified by unbiased proteomic approaches. Young but not aged MDSPCs can extend lifespan and healthspan through a paracrine endocrine mechanism. Factors secreted by functional MDSPCs can rescue dysfunctional MDSPCs.

Modern protein mass spectrometry methods are used to measure and identify factors secreted by functional but not dysfunctional MDSPC. Differential Mass Spectrometry dMS is an efficient MS based strategy for comparing complex biological samples including plasma and cellular extract. This un biased analysis of all ions detected by high resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometry is a powerful approach for discovering biologically relevant peptides and proteins. This technique has been used successfully to identify candidate plasma and cerebral spinal fluid markers that track with disease progression and or respond to treatment with specific classes of drugs. An important advantage of the dMS approach is that it is not limited to the analysis of tryptic peptides and has been successfully applied to the identification of intact plasma peptides and proteins. To enable the detection of molecules present at low abundance a variety of classical biochemical sample preparation methods e.g. ultrafiltration strong cation exchange chromatography immuno depletion etc. is used to fractionate the conditioned media with function assessed by their ability to rescue dysfunctional MDSPCs. The factors identified as secreted by young MDSPCs are validated using either lentiviral gene transfer of shRNA to reduce expression or cDNAs to increase expression and the effects on and MDSPCs determined. In particular the ability of the conditioned media from the genetically modified MDSPCs to rescue dysfunctional MDSPCs is examined. Similarly the ability of genetically modified MDSPCs to extend healthspan and lifespan of ERCC1 deficient mice following IP administration is also determined.

MDSPCs are isolated using the established preplate technique from the gastrocnemius muscle from Ercc1 Ercc1 and age matched WT mice at different time points.

Cell proliferation cell numbers at increasing time points and the cell population doubling time number of hours required for the cell number to double is collected and quantitated using the LCI system following a previously published methodology.

Cell differentiation is assessed by switching the proliferation medium into fusion medium DMEM containing 2 horse serum and 1 penicillin streptomycin for 3 4 days. Cells are then immunostained for fast myosin heavy chain f MyHC and the degree of myogenic differentiation the percent f MyHC expressing cells per total nuclei is measured as previously described. For adipogenic osteogenic and chondrogenic differentiation MDSPCs are seeded onto 6 well plates and lineage specific differentiation media Lonza added for 7 days.

Young WT MDSPCs are cultured for 2 days in 25 cmcollagen coated flasks and then treated with differentiation media DMEM medium supplemented with 2 FBS for 3 days. The supernatant is collected and used as conditioned media. MDSPCs from 21 day old Ercc1 mice and 2 yr old WT mice are grown in the presence of this conditioned media or unconditioned differentiation media to determine its impact on myogenic differentiation.

In another aspect of the present invention the stem progenitor cells e.g. MDSPCs of this invention may be genetically engineered to contain a nucleic acid sequence s encoding one or more active biomolecules and to express these biomolecules including proteins polypeptides peptides hormones metabolites drugs enzymes and the like. Such stem progenitor cells may be histocompatible autologous or nonhistocompatible allogeneic to the recipient including humans. These cells can serve as long term local delivery systems for a variety of treatments for example for the treatment of such diseases and pathologies as cancer transplant rejection and the regeneration of muscle and nerve tissues diabetes liver failure renal failure neural defects and diseases such as Parkinson s disease and to deliver a gene product to a site of tissue augmentation or void filling such as a therapeutic agent as described herein.

Preferred for use in the present invention are autologous stem progenitor cells which will not be recognized as foreign to the recipient. In this regard the stem progenitor cells used for cell mediated gene transfer or delivery will desirably be matched vis a vis the major histocompatibility locus MHC or HLA in humans . Such MHC or HLA matched cells may be autologous. Alternatively the cells may be from a person having the same or a similar MHC or HLA antigen profile. The patient may also be tolerized to the allogeneic MHC antigens. The present invention also encompasses the use of cells lacking MHC Class I and or II antigens such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 538 722.

The stem progenitor cells may be genetically engineered by a variety of molecular techniques and methods known to those having skill in the art for example transfection infection or transduction. Transduction as used herein commonly refers to cells that have been genetically engineered to contain a foreign or heterologous gene via the introduction of a viral or non viral vector into the cells. Transfection more commonly refers to cells that have been genetically engineered to contain a foreign gene harbored in a plasmid or non viral vector. Stem progenitor cells can be transfected or transduced by different vectors and thus can serve as gene delivery vehicles to transfer the expressed products into surrounding tissues.

Although viral vectors are preferred those having skill in the art will appreciate that the genetic engineering of cells to contain nucleic acid sequences encoding desired proteins or polypeptides cytokines and the like may be carried out by any methods known in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 538 722 including fusion transfection lipofection mediated by the use of liposomes electroporation precipitation with DEAE Dextran or calcium phosphate particle bombardment biolistics with nucleic acid coated particles e.g. gold particles microinjection and the like.

Vectors for introducing heterologous i.e. foreign nucleic acid DNA or RNA into stem progenitor cells for the expression of bioactive products are well known in the art. Such vectors possess a promoter sequence preferably a promoter that is cell specific and placed upstream of the sequence to be expressed. The vectors may also contain optionally one or more expressible marker genes for expression as an indication of successful transfection and expression of the nucleic acid sequences contained in the vector.

Illustrative examples of vehicles or vector constructs for transfection or infection of stem progenitor cells of the present invention include replication defective viral vectors DNA virus or RNA virus retrovirus vectors such as adenovirus herpes simplex virus and adeno associated viral vectors. Adeno associated virus vectors are single stranded and allow the efficient delivery of multiple copies of nucleic acid to the cell s nucleus. Preferred are adenovirus vectors. The vectors will normally be substantially free of any prokaryotic DNA and may comprise a number of different functional nucleic acid sequences. Examples of such functional sequences include polynucleotide e.g. DNA or RNA sequences comprising transcriptional and translational initiation and termination regulatory sequences including promoters e.g. strong promoters inducible promoters and the like and enhancers which are active in cells.

Also included as part of the functional sequences is an open reading frame polynucleotide sequence encoding a protein of interest flanking sequences may also be included for site directed integration. In some situations the 5 flanking sequence will allow homologous recombination thus changing the nature of the transcriptional initiation region so as to provide for inducible or non inducible transcription to increase or decrease the level of transcription as an example.

In general the nucleic acid sequence desired to be expressed by the stem progenitor cell is that of a structural gene or a functional fragment segment or portion of the gene that is heterologous to the stem progenitor cell and encodes a desired protein or polypeptide product for example. The encoded and expressed product may be intracellular i.e. retained in the cytoplasm nucleus or an organelle of a cell or may be secreted by the cell. For secretion the natural signal sequence present in the structural gene may be retained or a signal sequence that is not naturally present in the structural gene may be used. When the polypeptide or peptide is a fragment of a protein that is larger a signal sequence may be provided so that upon secretion and processing at the processing site the desired protein will have the natural sequence. Examples of genes of interest for use in accordance with the present invention include genes encoding cell growth factors cell differentiation factors cell signaling factors and programmed cell death factors. Specific examples include but are not limited to genes encoding BMP 2 rhBMP 2 IL 1Ra Factor IX and connexin 43.

As mentioned above a marker may be present for selection of cells containing the vector construct. The marker may be an inducible or non inducible gene and will generally allow for positive selection under induction or without induction respectively. Examples of commonly used marker genes include neomycin dihydrofolate reductase glutamine synthetase and the like.

The vector employed will generally also include an origin of replication and other genes that are necessary for replication in the host cells as routinely employed by those having skill in the art. As an example the replication system comprising the origin of replication and any proteins associated with replication encoded by a particular virus may be included as part of the construct. The replication system must be selected so that the genes encoding products necessary for replication do not ultimately transform the stem progenitor cells. Such replication systems are represented by replication defective adenovirus constructed as described for example by G. Acsadi et al. 1994 Hum. Mol. Genet 3 579 584 and by Epstein Ban virus. Examples of replication defective vectors particularly retroviral vectors that are replication defective are BAG described by Price et al. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 156 and Sanes et al. 1986 EMBO J. 5 3133. It is understood that the final gene construct may contain one or more genes of interest for example a gene encoding a bioactive metabolic molecule. In addition cDNA synthetically produced DNA or chromosomal DNA may be employed utilizing methods and protocols known and practiced by those having skill in the art.

If desired infectious replication defective viral vectors may be used to genetically engineer the cells prior to in vivo injection of the cells. In this regard the vectors may be introduced into retroviral producer cells for amphotrophic packaging. The natural expansion of stem progenitor cells into adjacent regions obviates a large number of injections into or at the site s of interest.

In another aspect the present invention provides ex vivo gene delivery to cells and tissues of a recipient mammalian host including humans through the use of stem progenitor cells e.g. MDSPCs or early progenitor muscle cells which have been virally transduced using an adenoviral vector engineered to contain a heterologous gene encoding a desired gene product. Such an ex vivo approach provides the advantage of efficient viral gene transfer which is superior to direct gene transfer approaches. The ex vivo procedure involves the use of stem progenitor cells from isolated cells of muscle tissue. For example a muscle biopsy that will serve as the source of MDSPCs can be obtained from an injury site or from another area that may be more easily obtainable from the clinical surgeon.

It is appreciated that in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention clonal isolates can be derived from the population of muscle derived progenitor cells i.e. PP6 cells using various procedures known in the art for example limiting dilution plating in tissue culture medium. Clonal isolates comprise genetically identical cells that originate from a single solitary cell. In addition clonal isolates can be derived using FACS analysis as described above followed by limiting dilution to achieve a single cell per well to establish a clonally isolated cell line. An example of a clonal isolate derived from the PP6 cell population is mc13 which is described in Example 9. Preferably MDSPCs clonal isolates are utilized in the present methods as well as for genetic engineering for the expression of one or more bioactive molecules or in gene replacement therapies.

The MDSPCs are first infected with engineered viral vectors containing at least one heterologous gene encoding a desired gene product suspended in a physiologically acceptable carrier or excipient such as saline or phosphate buffered saline and then administered to an appropriate site in the host. Consistent with the present invention the MDSPCs can be administered to body tissues including bone epithelial tissue connective tissue muscle tissue and various organ tissues such as those organs that are associated with the digestive system cardiovascular system respiratory system reproductive system urological system and nervous system as described above. The desired gene product is expressed by the injected cells which thus introduce the gene product into the host. The introduced and expressed gene products can thereby be utilized to treat repair or ameliorate the injury dysfunction or disease due to their being expressed over long time periods by the MDSPCs of the invention having long term survival in the host.

In animal model studies of myoblast mediated gene therapy implantation of 10myoblasts per 100 mg muscle was required for partial correction of muscle enzyme defects see J. E. Morgan et al. 1988 J. Neural. Sci. 86 137 T. A. Partridge et al. 1989 Nature 337 176 . Extrapolating from this data approximately 10MDSPCs suspended in a physiologically compatible medium can be implanted into muscle tissue for gene therapy for a 70 kg human. This number of MDSPCs of the invention can be produced from a single 100 mg skeletal muscle biopsy from a human source. For the treatment of a specific injury site an injection of genetically engineered MDSPCs into a given tissue or site of injury comprises a therapeutically effective amount of cells in solution or suspension preferably about 10to 10cells per cmof tissue to be treated in a physiologically acceptable medium.

The invention also provides methods of screening for one or more candidate compounds that modulate expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors or factors that regulate the expression of such secreted or released regulatory factors from a population of isolated mammalian stem progenitor cells e.g. adult stem progenitor cells . In such methods the population of stem progenitor cells is exposed to one or more candidate compounds and the expression of one or more regulatory factors or factors that regulate expression of regulatory factors is determined in a population of stem progenitor stem cells that are not exposed to the candidate compound. Then the expression of the one or more secreted or released regulatory factors or factors that may regulate expression of such regulatory factors in the exposed population of stem progenitor cells is compared with the control population thereby identifying one or more candidate compounds that modulate i.e. increase or decrease expression of one or more secreted or released regulatory factors or factors that regulate expression of such factors.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting. Other features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the following detailed description and claims.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the embodiments described herein reference is made to preferred embodiments and specific language are used to describe the same. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. As used throughout this disclosure the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a composition includes a plurality of such compositions as well as a single composition and a reference to a therapeutic agent is a reference to one or more therapeutic and or pharmaceutical agents and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

Body mass index BMI is a measure of body fat based on height and weight that applies to both men and women. BMI is considered in to fall into the so called normal range when BMI is between about 18.5 24.9. According to this invention an underweight subject has a BMI 

The term isolated as used herein with respect to nucleic acids such as DNA or RNA refers to molecules separated from other DNAs or RNAs respectively that are present in the natural source of the macromolecule. The term isolated as used herein also refers to a nucleic acid or peptide that is substantially free of cellular material viral material or culture medium when produced by recombinant DNA techniques or chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized. Moreover an isolated nucleic acid is meant to include nucleic acid fragments which are not naturally occurring as fragments and would not be found in the natural state. The term isolated is also used herein to refer to polypeptides which are isolated from other cellular proteins and is meant to encompass both purified and recombinant polypeptides.

As used herein the term nucleic acid refers to polynucleotides or oligonucleotides such as deoxyribonucleic acid DNA and where appropriate ribonucleic acid RNA . The term should also be understood to include as equivalents analogs of RNA or DNA made from nucleotide analogs e.g. peptide nucleic acids and as applicable to the embodiment being described single sense or antisense and double stranded polynucleotides.

The following examples are illustrative but not limiting of the methods and compositions of the present invention. Other suitable modifications and adaptations of the variety of conditions and parameters normally encountered in therapy and that are obvious to those skilled in the art are within the spirit and scope of the embodiments.

Reagents a Hank s Buffered Salt Solution plus Calcium Chloride and Magnesium Chloride HBSS INVITROGEN Cat. 24020 117 b Collagenase type XI SIGMA ALDRICH Cat. C7657 c . Dispase INVITROGEN Cat. 17105 041 d Trypsin EDTA INVITROGEN Cat. 15400 054 e Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM high glucose INVITROGEN Cat. 11995 073 f Fetal Bovine Serum FBS INVITROGEN Cat. 10437 028 g Horse Serum HS INVITROGEN Cat. 26050 088 h Chick Embryo Extract CEE Accurate Chemical Co. Cat. CE650T 10 h Penicillin Streptomycin P S INVITROGEN Cat. 15140 122 i Collagen type I SIGMA ALDRICH Cat. C9791 and j Dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO SIGMA Cat. D 2650 .

Laboratory supplies a Tubes 15 mL and 50 mL polypropylene e.g. BD Cat. 352097 and 352098 b Filters disposable sterile 0.22 m pore size and 500 mL sterile filter system e.g. CORNING Cat. 430769 c Petri dishes 35 mm and 65 mm e.g. BD Cat. 351008 d Cell strainer disposable 70 m pore size e.g. BD Cat. 352350 e Flasks 25 cm T 25 and 75 cm T 75 e.g. BD Cat. 353109 and 353136 f Cryovials 1.5 mL e.g. NALGENE Cat. 5000 1020 and g MR. FROSTY freezing container NALGENE Cat. 5100 0001 or empty 15 mL STYROFOAM boxes.

Required equipment a Sterile surgical equipments e.g. forceps scissors b Laminar flow tissue culture hood e.g. The Baker Company Model SG 403 c Incubator to maintain 37 C. 95 humidity and an atmosphere of 5 CO e.g. HERACELL 150 THERMO FISHER Cat. 51022393 d Refrigerated bench top centrifuge e.g. LEGEND RT THERMO FISHER Cat. 75004377 e Laboratory balance e.g. Mettler Toledo Model PM4000 f Pipet aid e.g. Drummond Scientific Cat. 4 000 101 g Adjustable micropipettes 10 L 200 L and 1000 L e.g. GILSON Model P200N with sterile disposable plastic pipette tips e.g. Denville Scientific Cat. P1326 CPS h Hemocytometer e.g. Hausser 1475 or automatic cell counter e.g. INVITROGEN Cat. C10281 and i Inverted light microscope with phase contrast capabilities and objectives of 5 10 20 magnification e.g. NIKON Model TMS 215798 .

Methods Solution preparation Tissue digestion solution The working concentrations are 0.2 wt vol collagenase Type XI 2.4 U mL dispose and 0.1 wt vol Trypsin EDTA. Both solutions are prepared in HBSS and filtered using a 0.22 m sterile filter aliquoted into 10 mL volume aliquots and stored at 20 C. Solutions should be pre warmed to 37 C. before use. Proliferation Medium PM Except for DMEM all components of the PM should be pre prepared and stored at 20 C. Pre warm all the components to 37 C. before use. To prepare 500 mL of PM combine 392.5 mL DMEM 50 mL FBS 10 50 mL HS 10 and 5 mL P S 1 in a 500 sterile filter attached to the filter receiver. Add 2.5 mL CEE 0.5 as the last 10 mL of solution is drawn through the sterile filter system as it clogs the filter and retards the process. PM should be prepared fresh for each new culture of MDSPCs. Unused PM can be stored at 4 C. PM for a maximum of 4 weeks. Freezing medium 1 10 dilution of DMSO FBS or PM.

Collagen coating solution Day 1 Under a laminar flow hood using sterile technique add 0.1 g of collagen type I to a sterile 1 liter glass bottle with screw cap. In a sterile graduated cylinder add 5.7 mL glacial acetic acid to 1 liter of double distilled water. Add the mixture to the collagen by filtering the acid water through a 500 mL bottle top sterilization filter. Stir with a magnetic stir bar overnight. Day 2 Under a laminar flow hood using sterile technique pour collagen type I into 50 ml sterile polystyrene centrifuge bottles and spin at 2 630 g for 20 min at 4 C. Transfer the supernatant to sterile autoclaved bottles while. Under a laminar flow hood slowly add 50 mL of chloroform caution volatile per 500 mL solution using a sterile glass funnel. The chloroform will form a layer under the collagen solution. Do not shake or stir. Allow to sit overnight can be extended to two days at 2 8 C. Day 3 Under a laminar flow hood using sterile technique transfer the top aqueous layer containing the collagen to a new sterile 1 liter bottle and store at 2 8 C. Discard the bottom layer containing the chloroform according to your institution s hazardous waste guidelines.

Collagen coating flasks and plates To coat the flasks or plates with Collagen Type I warm the solution in 37 C. water bath. Add the recommended volume of collagen to the flasks plates. Make sure the solution is evenly distributed by gently rocking them until the surface is covered. Repeat frequently over the next 2 hrs. Keep the flasks plates open in culture hood with blower on for a minimum of 3 4 hrs but ideally for 7 hrs. After this pipette off the excess collagen solution to a flask label as used collagen type I . This can be reused for future coating. Leave the flasks plates partially open in a running laminar flow hood overnight to promote drying. Keep the flasks plates in a laminar flow hood with the germicidal UV lamp on for 2 hrs. The next day cap the flasks plates label bag in the original wrapping and store at room temperature.

Isolating and digesting skeletal muscle from mice 1 Sterilize surgical tools 2 Euthanize the animal by COasphyxiation 3 Dissect out the skeletal muscle. For adult mice use the hind limb muscles including gastrocnemius soleus and quadriceps muscle 350 450 mg . For young mice 1 7 days the entire limb muscles should be used. Place the tissue from a single animal into a 15 mL tube containing sufficient HBSS to cover the tissue and store on ice 4 Transfer one skeletal muscle at a time to a sterile 65 mm Petri dish and wash it three times with sterile HBSS to remove any debris that may have adhered to the tissue during the dissection 5 Using forceps and scissors dissect the muscle from other tissues including the bone tendon nerve major blood vessels fat and connective tissue in a sterile 35 mm Petri dish 6 Add 10 mL of sterile HBSS to a fresh Petri dish and begin the mechanical digestion of the trimmed muscle by mincing it into a coarse slurry using very sharp spring scissors 7 Transfer the minced tissue slurry into a 15 mL conical tube using a 10 ml transfer pipette and centrifuge at 930 g at 2 8 C. for 5 min 8 Aspirate off the supernatant resuspend the pellet with HBSS and centrifuge again as described in step 4 9 Aspirate off the supernatant and weigh the pellet slurry using a precise scale. Zero the scale using an empty 15 mL conical tube 10 Begin the enzymatic digestion by adding 10 ml of pre warmed 0.2 collagenase type XI digestion solution approximately 1 mL per 0.1 g muscle pellet in a 15 mL tube. Incubate at 37 C. Gently rock the tube by hand every 15 min. After 1 hr centrifuge at 2 630 g for 5 min 11 Aspirate off the supernatant and resuspend the pellet slurry in 10 mL pre warmed dispase 2.4 units mL 12 Incubate at 37 C. for 45 minutes. Gently rock the tube by hand every 15 min. Centrifuge at 2 630 g for 5 min 13 Aspirate off the supernatant and resuspend the viscous slurry in 0.1 Trypsin EDTA solution diluted in HBSS. Incubate at 37 C. for 30 min. Gently rock the tube by hand every 15 min. Centrifuge at 2 630 g for 5 min 14 Aspirate out the supernatant and resuspend the cell pellet in 10 mL of PM 15 Pipette the re suspended pellet through a 70 m cell strainer placed on top of a 50 mL sterile conical tube. Rinse the strainer with PM to collect all of the cells.

Plate the cells from one animal tube on one collagen type I coated T 25 flask and incubate at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COincubator for 2 hrs.

Two hours after plating early adhering cells mainly fibroblasts will attach to the surface of the flask label this cell population as pre plate 1 pp1 .

Transfer the media containing the non adherent cells into a second collagen type I coated T 25 flask label pp2. Return flasks to the incubator.

After 18 hrs transfer the media from pp2 into a sterile 15 mL conical tube and centrifuge at 930 g at 4 C. for 5 min. Aspirate out the supernatant and resuspend the cell pellet in 5 mL of PM and transfer the media containing the nonadherent cells into a third T 25 flask labeled pp3. Add 5 mL fresh PM to the pp2 flask. Return the flasks to the incubator.

Repeat Step 4 three times to obtain pp6. This last cell suspension can be maintained for up to 72 hrs to maximize adherence of the slowest adhering cells. Change the media on pp2 5 cells every other day and freeze as soon as a sufficient number is reached. Most of the cells in pp6 die but the surviving cells will slowly begin to proliferate creating small adherent colonies. These viable cells are small round and refractive. The surviving cells at pp6 are termed muscle derived stem progenitor cells MDSPCs .

Remove the culture medium PM and wash the cells with HBSS. Apply pre warmed 0.25 Trypsin EDTA in HBSS and gently tap the corners or bottom of the flasks stimulate cell detaching. After 1 min check the flask under the microscope to ensure that all of the cells are detached. Inhibit the Trypsin EDTA by adding PM 3 mL for T 25 flasks . Transfer the cell suspension to a 15 mL tube and centrifuge at 930 g for 5 min at 4 C.

Aspirate off the supernatant and resuspend the pellet in PM. Count the cells and plate at a density of 500 1000 cells cm e.g. 12 000 25 000 cell in T 25 flask in a fresh collagen type I coated flask. Incubate the cells at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COincubator. Maintain the cells at a low cell density 30 confluence to minimize cell myogenic differentiation. MDSPCs need to be trypsinized when small colonies are visible regardless of the overall cell density. MDSPCs usually remain quiescent after isolation therefore 3 4 weeks are needed to obtain sufficient cells for cryopreservation or experimentation.

If pp6 cells contain a high percentage of large flat fibroblast like cells it is necessary to re plate the cells as described below. Aspirate out the supernatant and resuspend the pellet in PM then plate the cells in a fresh collagen type I coated T 25 flask. Allow the cells to adhere to the flask for 20 30 min in the incubator. Collect the media containing the non adherent cells and re plate them onto a new collagen type I coated T 25 flask. Incubate the cells at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COincubator. Re plating steps can be repeated several times if necessary.

Freeze each preplate population pp1 pp5 when the cells are 80 confluency. The pp6 can be frozen once a sufficient number of cells has been reached while keeping the cells at low confluence 

Transfer frozen vials of cells from the 80 C. freezer or liquid nitrogen to the laboratory on dry ice. Thaw the content of the vials using a 37 C. water bath. Thawing needs to be done quickly 

After isolation the quality of MDSPC is assessed by measuring stem like properties including expression of stem progenitor markers profile self renewal and multi lineage differentiation summarized in Table 2 . Using HBSS with Ca and Mg reduces the enzymatic activity of trypsin. But it is effective for gently releasing stem progenitor cells from plates. Based on experience CEE is critical for the isolation and maintenance of MDSPCs. CEE from different manufactures and even different lots produced by the same manufacturer has a profound effect on the quality of MDSPCs including their capacity for proliferation and differentiation. The best results are obtained if the CEE is not pre cleared by centrifugation or ultrafiltration.

The division time of individual MDSPCs were measured while growing in the cell population or as isolated clones. To confirm that the population doubling time PDT accurately represented the proliferation rate of MDSPCs and was not simply the average of the heterogeneous population we measured the cellular division time DT of individual cells. The DT of single cells in the population and single clones isolated from the population n 3 7 per genotype were compared. Individual cells from preplate 6 were seeded in 96 well plates using FACSARIA cytometer. Five days after plating the DT of individual cells in each well was monitored for 72 hrs using the Live Cell Imaging. Using the images acquired the time between the cytokinesis events was calculated. Reported is the average s.d. for each genotype. There was no significant difference between the population and clonal DT.

MDSPCs were double positive for Sca1 and CD34 and negative for CD45. Although variability and alteration in the expression levels had been observed as a consequence of in vitro culturing. Growth kinetics proliferation and or self renewal was measured using a live cell imaging LCI system. This system allowed for time lapsed imaging of single cells or colonies over long periods of time so that growth and differentiation kinetics could be accurately measured. To evaluate the differentiation potential of MDSPCs the cells were switched to specific differentiation media for myogenic osteogenic chondrogenic and adipogenic lineages. Subsequently the cultures were analyzed for lineage specific morphology and differentiation markers. The function regenerative capacity of MDSPCs was evaluated in vivo by injecting the cells into the gastrocnemius muscle of mdx SCID mice a mouse model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy with profound muscle degeneration due to lack of dystrophin expression that are also immunocompromised SCID . Two weeks after injecting MDSPCs the muscle was harvested and stained for dystrophin to detect donor derived myofibers. Alternatively muscle regeneration was tested in wild type mice following cardiotoxin injury. In this case regenerating fibers were identified by centronucleation.

Ideally MDSPCs were stored submerged in liquid nitrogen. This requires special cryovials that can withstand the pressure changes that occur when cells are thawed. It is also important not to overfill the cryovials to prevent the tubes from exploding during the thawing process.

Viability of MDSPCs after thawing was dramatically improved if a 1 10 v v ratio of DMSO FBS is used rather than DMSO media.

Amount of collagen type I needed for coating of flasks plates T25 2 ml T75 3.5 4 ml T175 7.5 8 ml 6 well plate 1 mL well 12 well plate 0.5 mL well . 24 well plate 0.25 mL well 96 well plate 50 L well . For newborn animals both the hindlimb and forelimb muscles were collected. Collagenase type XI and dispase digestion can be extended when a larger amount of muscle must to be digested. But the cells are sensitive to prolonged exposure to Trypsin EDTA. If contamination is observed discard all cultures and clean the hood and incubators thoroughly with topical application of disinfectant Coflikt Decon Laboratories 4101 . All removable parts of the hood and incubator were autoclaved before starting a new isolation. It is not recommended to increase the dose of antibiotics or to use antimycotics since this may affect the stemness properties of MDSPCs.

The seeding density is critical and varies depending on the cell proliferation kinetics. Low cell density impedes cell proliferation and high density causes the cells to fuse differentiate . The optimal density must be determined empirically. Cell proliferation rates vary depending on the sex age and health of the donor as well as the amount muscle tissue available for cell isolation. Consistency in cell isolation and culturing of MDSPCs is the key to maintaining pluripotency.

Because MDSPCs are quiescent cells it takes a minimum of 1 2 weeks for cells to show any sign of proliferation. This time varies depending upon the number of cells isolated at ppb. Trypsinization should be avoided until visible colonies are evident.

For cardiotoxin experiments 20 of 2 M cardiotoxin SIGMA ALDRICH dissolved in PBS was injected into the gastrocnemius muscle of mice 3 old WT 3 yr old 5 WT 18 wk old and 3 Ercc1 18 wk old mice. Two weeks later the gastrocnemius muscles were harvested frozen in 2 methylbutane pre cooled in liquid nitrogen and cryostat sectioned 8 m . Sections were immunostained for dystrophin and fluorescent images were captured using a Nikon Eclipse E800 microscope equipped with a Q imaging Retiga Exi digital camera using Northern Eclipse software v. 6.0 Empix Imaging Inc. .

To perform dimensional analysis of dystrophin positive myofibers the images were thresholded using this computer software to distinguish the immunofluorescence signal from the back ground noise signal and then to determine the number and area of fibers and to provide quantitative measurements of the number of pixels occupied by each individual fiber. The fiber area distribution of 1000 centronucleated individual myofibers per group was measured by determining the total number of pixels occupied by each fiber and converted to square micrometers with the software. Finally the cross sectional area of and the distribution of the fiber areas was plotted.

To reveal areas of fibrosis in regenerating muscles sections were stained with Masson s Trichrome Kit K7228 IMEB Inc. which stains collagen blue muscle fibers red and nuclei black. Quantitation of the fibrotic area was done on n 13 images per mouse using the Northern Eclipse software v. 6.0 Empix Imaging Inc. .

To test the myogenic potential of MDSPCs in vivo see 3 10WT MDSPCs pp6 isolated from two 19 week old male Ercc1 mice and two of their WT littermates were injected into the gastrocnemius muscle of 9 week old female mdx SCID mice n 8 mice 4 mice cell population . Mdx is a mouse model of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy with profound muscle degeneration due to lack of dystrophin expression. The mice were also immunocompromised SCID . Two weeks after transplantation the mice were euthanized and the injected gastrocnemius muscles were isolated and cryopreserved for sectioning. Muscle sections were immunostained with dystrophin to identify regenerated myofibers by donor cells.

To test the ability of MDSPCs to rescue aging phenotypes in progeroid mice after IP administration see and Table 3 2 4 10MDSPCs per gram body weight were injected into the peritoneal cavity of 17 day old Ercc1 mice.

Transplantations were performed in a sex mismatched manner such that the donor cells were of the opposite sex from the host. A littermate mutant animal was injected with vehicle only PBS . Ercc1 mice were allowed to live until natural death to determine the effect of MDSPCs on lifespan. In an identical experiment littermate mutant animals were injected with the same quantity of early passage WT primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts MEFs or vehicle only. For the evaluation of the impact of MDSPCs on healthspan 6 7 wk old Ercc1 mice were injected IP with about 2 10to about 4 10MDSPCs per gram body weight. The injection was repeated 6 wks later. The weight and the age at onset of spontaneous progeroid symptoms were assessed bi weekly by an investigator blinded to the treatment. The age at onset of each symptom was averaged within a treatment group.

Dystonia a sign of neurodegeneration is measured as an abnormal response to tail suspension a clasping rather than splaying reflex . Kyphosis a sign of osteoporosis was measured by observing the curvature of the spine compared to wild type littermates. Ataxia a sign of cerebellar neurodegeneration was measured by evaluating the animal s gait and ability to maintain their posture when reared on hind limbs to groom. Priapism and incontinence are only observed in male mice. Lethargy was scored as positive when the mice were slow to rise when startled by moving their cage or attempting to pick them up. Sarcopenia was scored as positive when the mice showed proximal hind limb wasting. The Aging Score is an overall measurement of the quality of life or healthspan and reflects the fraction of symptoms that occurred later in mice treated with MDSPCs relative to littermate mutant animals that received vehicle only. The aging score was determined as follows. Mice were studied as littermate pairs where one mutant mouse was treated with the test cells and the other was treated with vehicle only PBS . For each symptom the mouse in which the symptom was delayed received a score of 1 and the littermate got a score of 0. If the symptoms occurred simultaneously in both mice both mice received a score of 0. The sum of the scores for each animal was divided by the number of symptoms measured in that pair of mice 8 for males 6 for females to determine the fraction of symptoms delayed. This number was plotted for both animals in each littermate pair then the average for each treatment group was determined to give the aging score. The symptoms evaluated include kyphosis dystonia trembling ataxia priapism urinary incontinence muscle wasting sarcopenia and reduced spontaneous activity lethargy due to frailty.

To determine the site of MDSPC cell engraftment after IP administration see see also Ercc1 mice were injected IP at 12 days of age with MDSPCs expressing LacZ and euthanized 8 9 days later n 4 or injected at 17 19 days of age and tissues harvested at the end of their lifespan 4 9 wks of age n 4 . The reporter MDSPCs were created by transducing them with a retroviral vector containing LacZ with a nuclear localization sequence. Fourteen organs tissues were isolated from each of the transplanted mice see Table 4 frozen in 2 methylbutane pre cooled in liquid nitrogen cryostat sectioned 7 m and stained with X gal to identify donor cells as well as hematoxylin and eosin to reveal tissue architecture. To isolate hematopoietic cells from the bone marrow the femurs of each animal were dissected muscle removed and the bone marrow was flushed from the long bones using PBS. Red blood cells were removed using Red Blood Cell Lysing Buffer SIGMA ALDRICH . The cell suspension was centrifuged counted and 2 3 10cells in PBS 5 l were smeared over Precleaned Superfrost Plus VWR slides air dried overnight and stained for LacZ expression using X gal see the Histology section of Material and Methods . The sections were then stained with CD45 conjugated to FITC 1 300 BD Pahrminogen for 20 min and evaluated by brightfield and fluorescence microscopy to detect CD45 hematopoietic cells expressing nLacZ.

For the data in Table 4 the tissues from Ercc1 mice administered labeled MDSPCs IP were analyzed for the presence of LacZ donor cells. Listed are the organs tissues collected the number of mice analyzed the average number of sections analyzed per tissue and the frequency with which donor cells were detected.

To determine if MDSPCs injected IM contribute to host muscle and vasculature see 3 10LacZ donor WT MDSPCs were transplanted into the gastrocnemius muscles of 12 17 day old Ercc1 mice. Mice were sacrificed 4 5 days post transplantation and the gastrocnemius muscles n 10 were harvested frozen in 2 methylbutane pre cooled in liquid nitrogen and cryostat sectioned 8 m . For co localizing blood vessels and nLacZ sections were fixed with 4 PFA paraformaldehyde stained for rat anti CD31 1 300 BD Pharmingen using Vectastain Elite ABC kit Vector Laboratories . Slides were developed using the peroxidase 3 3 diaminobenzidine DAB substrate kit Vector Laboratories . For brain endogenous avidin biotin was inhibited using a Vector Blocking kit Vector Laboratories . Primary antibody was incubated overnight at 4 C. in 10 rabbit serum containing 0.1 Triton in 1 BSA and washing buffer used throughout the staining procedure was 0.1 Tween 20 in PBS.

In an earlier work the inventors reported isolating these multipotent cells from young 3 week wk old mice. See Gharaibeh B. et al. 3 1501 1509 2008 Deasy B. M. et al. 17 1788 1798 2009 . To determine if MDSPCs could also be isolated from adult and old mice the same preplate technique was followed and the resulting cells were analysed for expression of stem progenitor cell markers CD34 Sca 1 . Cells isolated from skeletal muscle of young 3 wks adult 19 wks and old wild type WT 2 years yrs mice via this technique expressed CD34 and Sca 1 see establishing that MDSPCs could be isolated from mice of all ages. Although expression of CD34 appeared mildly attenuated in the older cell populations Sca 1 which is a more stable marker of MDSPCs was similarly expressed in all three populations. Furthermore MDSPCs isolated from adult WT mice showed multilineage differentiation see .

To determine if there was a loss of stem cell function associated with aging and progeria MDSPCs were isolated from old WT mice 2 yrs as well as progeroid Ercc1 2 3 wks and Ercc1 5 months mice and their proliferation and differentiation kinetics were measured in vitro. As controls MDSPCs were isolated from age matched WT littermates of the progeroid mice and Xpa xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group A mice 3 wks which are defective in nucleotide excision repair of DNA like ERCC1 deficient mice but do not age rapidly. To measure proliferation of MDSPCs an equivalent number of cells from each population were plated and Live Cell Imaging LCI used to measure growth kinetics see . Analysis of images captured from the different cell populations revealed that proliferation of MDSPCs isolated from the old WT Ercc1 and Ercc1 mice but not Xpa mice was significantly reduced relative to MDSPCs isolated from young WT mice P

To determine whether the capacity for myogenic differentiation is affected in old and progeroid MDSPCs the cells were cultured to confluence and switched to differentiation medium low serum . The young WT and Xpa MDSPCs fused to form multi nucleated myotubes expressing fast myosin heavy chain f MyHC a marker of terminal myogenic differentiation see . In contrast MDSPCs isolated from old WT and progeroid ERCC1 deficient mice formed significantly fewer and smaller myotubes indicating impaired differentiation see P

To rule out the possibility that the stem progenitor cell dysfunction was an artifact caused by extensive passaging of MDSPCs ex vivo the number of cells with stem progenitor surface markers and capacity for myogenic differentiation was measured at the earliest possible time point following isolation from skeletal muscle. Preplate 1 and 2 pp1 2 see which constitute all cells directly isolated from skeletal muscle were induced to differentiate within 24 hrs of isolation. f MyHC positive myotube formation was impaired in cells isolated from the skeletal muscle of progeroid ERCC1 deficient mice compared to WT littermates see . Similarly expression of a second terminal myogenic differentiation marker myogenin was reduced in the ERCC1 deficient cells compared to WT controls see . Twenty four hours post isolation from skeletal muscle those cells that remained non adherent were stained for surface markers Sca 1 CD34 and CD45 and analyzed by FACS to quantify the mixed population of non hematopoietic stem progenitor cells in the muscle see . Sca 1 is expressed on adult stem cells a sub population of myoblasts muscle derived fibrogenic adipogenic progenitors and a non myogenic population of cells that emerge in muscle with aging.

To determine whether there is a difference in the function of muscle stem progenitor cells between aged and young organisms in vivo muscle regeneration was examined utilizing a well established cardiotoxin injury induced model. The total area of muscle regeneration as defined by centronucleated fibers did not significantly differ between young WT old WT and progeroid mice see Table 1 supra . However there was a dramatic difference in the average cross sectional area of the regenerated myofibers in old and progeroid mice compared to young adult mice see . More than 50 of the centronucleated dystrophin positive myofibers in old and progeroid mice had an area of 500 m see . In contrast 60 of the myofibers in young WT mice had an area of 1000 m indicative of significantly more mature regenerated myofibers P

Collectively the data presented in supported the conclusion that aged organisms have a muscle stem progenitor cell defect.

To determine if the loss of functional MDSPCs contributes to aging related degenerative changes it was examined whether transplantation of young WT MDSPCs affects either the healthspan or lifespan of progeroid mice. Littermate pairs of Ercc1 mice were injected intraperitoneally IP with 2 4 10young WT progeroid or old WT MDSPCs per gram body weight or phosphate buffered saline PBS at 17 days of age and lifespan was measured. Ercc1 mice injected with young WT MDSPCs showed pronounced weight gain and a significantly extended lifespan compared to sibling mutant animals injected with vehicle only see P

The young WT MDSPCs were also injected IP into Ercc1 mice at 6 7 wks of age and again 6 wks later. The age at onset of characteristic progeroid symptoms including dystonia trembling kyphosis ataxia muscle wasting loss of vision urinary incontinence and decreased spontaneous activity was measured biweekly. The results were compared to littermate Ercc1 mice treated with vehicle only in a pairwise fashion. The investigators were blinded to the treatment arm. The aging score representing the fraction of symptoms that were delayed in mutant mice treated with MDSPCs compared to a mutant littermate treated with PBS revealed a highly significant difference between treatment groups see P

These data provided strong evidence that loss of stem progenitor cell function plays a direct causal role in aging related degeneration and that treatment with young WT MDSPCs extends life and healthspan.

To address the question of how MDSPCs could extend healthspan and lifespan it was examined whether if the donor cells engrafted in host tissues. Young WT MDSPCs transduced with a retroviral vector containing LacZ with a nuclear localization sequence nLacZ were injected IP into Ercc1 mice n 8 . Fourteen tissues were analyzed for the presence of donor cells. LacZ cells were detected in the parenchyma of the liver and kidney as well as connective tissues associated with pancreas and spleen of all mice analyzed see . Similar results were obtained in animals euthanized from 1 to 9 wks post injection. LacZ cells were also detected in lung esophagus thymus bladder ureter spinal cord and bone marrow of at least a single mouse. Importantly donor cells were not detected in the heart brain skeletal muscles and lymph nodes of any mice. The extent of donor cell engraftment and expansion is limited indicating that the beneficial effects of MDSPCs is not due to tissue reconstitution by donor cells as is seen with hematopoietic stem progenitor cells in bone marrow transplant.

In a progeria model Ercc1 mice young WT MDSPCs had a therapeutic effect. However the duration of the experiment 

To quantify the improvement MDSPCs from progeroid Ercc1 or old WT mice were grown in the presence of conditioned media from young WT MDSPCs then harvested for immunodetection of the terminal myogenic differentiation marker MyHC see . MyHC expression was dramatically increased 2.5 9 if the cells were grown in the presence of media from young WT MDSPCs compared to differentiation media alone.

Thus young WT MDSPCs were able to rescue at least in part the function i.e. proliferation and differentiation of MDSPCs isolated from progeroid and old mice via secreted or released factors.

To determine if secreted factors were indeed important for the therapeutic effect of MDSPCs whether there was evidence of improved histopathology in tissues of treated ERCC1 deficient mice in which transplanted MDSPCs were not detected in particular skeletal muscle and brain was examined. Previously it had been demonstrated that the regenerative potential of MDSPCs transplanted into skeletal muscle heart and bone correlates with their ability to induce angiogenesis. See e.g. Qu Petersen Z. et al. 157 851 864 2002 . Thus whether IP injection of young WT MDSPCs had effects on the vasculature of the brain as well as muscle fiber size was examined. Muscle sections were stained for dystrophin to highlight muscle fiber perimeter and CD31 to identify endothelial cells within microvessels see . For each image the total number of muscle fibers and CD31 cells were quantified and the ratio of CD31 cells of muscle fibers determined. Muscles of 15 day old Ercc1 mice had significantly reduced numbers of CD31 cells at the periphery of muscle fibers compared to WT littermates see 0.56 CD31 cells fiber vs. 1.25 for WT mice P

IP injection of young WT MDSPCs into Ercc1 mice led to a significant increase in the number of CD31 cells 9 wks post injection compared to untreated Ercc1 mice that only live 3 4 wks see 1.05 CD31 vessels fiber P

Progeroid Ercc1 mice show reduced vascularization in the brain compared to WT littermates at 3 wks of age see .

Table 5 lists the primers used to measure expression of stem progenitor surface markers and markers of differentiation.

Although donor cells were not detected in the brain of Ercc1 cell transplantation significantly improved neovascularization in the brain of these progeroid mice. In 3 wk old Ercc1 mice the median area of cerebral cortex occupied by vasculature was 1.2 . In Ercc1 mice injected with MDSCPs vascularization increased approximately to the levels in 3 wk old WT mice 2.2 vs. 2.5 respectively and the improvement was sustained. Ercc1 mice treated with MDSPCs that survived out to 9 wks of age had a vascular area indistinguishable from age matched WT mice 3.2 vs. 3.1 P

These data demonstrated that there is improvement in the histopathology of several tissues in which donor cell engraftment was not detected suggesting that MDSPCs exert their therapeutic effect via secreted or released factors.

Using IM injection of nLacZ labeled MDSPCs to localize donor cell engraftment host muscle were analyzed for presence of LacZ myofibers and endothelial cells see . Like IP IM administration of young WT MDSPCs into Ercc1 mice see n 3 mice per group led to a significant increase in the number of CD31 cells see 1.06 CD31 vessels fiber P

Interestingly the function of MDSPCs from aged mice could be restored if they were co cultured with young WT MDSPCs see . Similar results were seen in vivo using parabiosis. These observations demonstrate that old dysfunctional MDSPCs can be rescued by exogenous factors rather than the cells being inherently defective. This is in contrast to aged hematopoietic stem cells which appear to have an intrinsic defect. See Brunet A. et al. 449 288 291 2007 .

IP administration of young WT MDSPCs to progeroid mice promoted growth of the animals decreased muscle atrophy and stimulated neovascularization in the brain and muscle despite the fact that donor cells were not detected in these tissues see . In addition transplantation of young WT MDSPCs directly into progeroid muscle led to muscle regeneration as well as host neovascularization demonstrating a paracrine mechanism requiring secreted factors see . These observations suggested that the mechanism by which MDSPCs promote healthspan and lifespan extension is likely via the secretion or release of stimulatory factor s that promote regeneration and also suggest that cells from old hosts lose this secretory phenotype. This stimulatory factor may be necessary to overcome systemic or local negative regulators of tissue regeneration in aged hosts. Identification of these secreted factors and methods to rejuvenate adult stem cells ex vivo will be critical for regenerative medicine.

The data demonstrated that transplanted MDSPCs can have systemic effects leading to tissue regeneration in multiple organ systems. Therefore MDSPCs may have therapeutic value for delaying aging related functional decline and treating human progerias and related disorders .

Example 11 describes experiments from NIH submitted Grant Nos. AR051456 AG032816 and Program Project Grant entitled Cell Autonomous and Non autonomous Mechanisms of Aging filed with the NIH under Assurance Number A3187 01 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

DNA damage is believed to promote aging through a predominantly cell autonomous mechanism by triggering programmed cell death or senescence. It is possible that cellular response to DNA damage may be more important in driving the aging process than the DNA damage itself. Moreover it is also well established that in response to high doses of genotoxic stress cells can secrete senescence associated factors which exert a paracrine effect on neighboring cells.

To date no one has established that non cell autonomous events occur in response to physiological levels of endogenous DNA damage. However by using a unique amalgam of tools expertise it may be possible to determine the mechanism by which DNA damage drives aging. Specifically such experiments will employ 1 Mice that spontaneously age rapidly as a consequence of a DNA repair defect depletion of ERCC1 XPF DNA repair endonuclease and LC and MS methodology or combinations thereof to accurately measure levels of oxidative DNA lesions that arise spontaneously in the tissues of these mice 2 Tissue specific knock out of ERCC1 XPF to determine if damage accumulation in one tissue affects others 3 Parabiosis to determine if circulating factors in young healthy mice can rescue the consequences of DNA damage in ERCC1 deficient mice and 4 Differential mass spectrometry to identify factors in the circulation of progeroid ERCC1 mice that promote aging related degenerative changes.

Genomic DNA is isolated from mouse tissues or cell pellets using a high salt method and digested with a four enzyme cocktail including nuclease P1 phosphodiesterase 1 2 and alkaline phosphatase. 15N labeled standard lesions are subsequently added including 200 fmol of R cdG 150 fmol of S cdG 100 fmol of R cdA 60 fmol of S cdA and 10 fmol of d G 8 5m T . The enzymes in the digestion mixture are removed by chloroform extraction. The aqueous layer is subjected to off line HPLC separation for the enrichment of the lesions followed by analysis by LC and MS methodology or combinations thereof using an LTQ linear ion trap mass spectrometer using recently described conditions. This analytical strategy is essential for the reliable quantitation of the endogenous lesions in as little as 10 50 g of DNA.

The HPLC enrichment step facilitates removal of unmodified nucleosides and buffer used for the enzymatic digestion which allows for the analysis of the fraction on a capillary HPLC column 0.5 150 mm and improves the ionization efficiency providing superb sensitivity 1 fmol of lesions can be detected .

Compared to the more traditional MS MS method the use of LC and MS methodology or combinations thereof provides enhanced specificity. As a result a single peak is always observed in the selected ion chromatogram for monitoring the specific transitions of the cyclopurines and d G 8 5 m T lesions which provides accurate quantification of these lesions even at very low levels e.g. several lesions per 108 nucleosides for d G 8 5 m T . Moreover the fullscan spectra acquired in LC and MS methodology or combinations thereof mode enable unambiguous identification of the DNA lesions. This is believed to be the first time all four diastereomers of cdA and cdG lesions are measured in genomic DNA isolated from tissues of healthy animals.

Samples. These assays are applied to tissues from Ercc1 mice and the results compared to WT littermates. The tissues to be analyzed are those for which it has previously established that there is aging related pathology and for which an adequate sample size can be obtained from a single mouse 10 50 g of DNA . This includes the liver kidney bone marrow brain and skeletal muscle. Samples are collected from mice at two ages before pathology is detected in that tissue the age at which pathology is first detected and when pathology is most prominent. For example by 7 wks of age liver function tests are already modestly but significantly elevated in Ercc1 mice. By 21 weeks of age LFTs have exceeded that of 34 36 month old WT mice. Hence DNA damage levels will be measured in liver from 4 6 8 and 21 week old Ercc1 mice. The goal is to catch the peak level of DNA damage which may occur before during or after the onset of pathology depending on the cellular response to damage death or senescence . Three to five mice per group is adequate to detect significant differences in levels of oxidative lesions between WT and DNA repair deficient mice.

The same tissues from multiple ages of WT mice are analyzed pre puberty 6 wks adult 21 weeks middle age 18 months old age 30 months which will reveal whether endogenous DNA lesions accumulate with aging and whether this correlates with tissue specific degenerative changes observed with normal aging. In addition the levels of DNA lesions in tissues from Ercc1 mice in which the levels of mitochondrial ROS are altered genetically or pharmacologically will be measured. These experiments are critical for determining whether there is a significant correlation between levels of endogenous DNA damage and aging related pathology.

Additionally DNA damage is quantitated in tissues and cells from ERCC1 deficient mice in which NF B stress signaling is inhibited. Preliminary data indicate that NF B activation in response to genotoxic or inflammatory stress promotes ROS production supporting a model in which aging related degeneration is driven at least in part by signaling mechanisms that promote more damage in a feed forward mechanism.

Tissue specific knock out of Ercc1 offers a unique opportunity to determine whether DNA damage drives aging through a cell autonomous or non autonomous mechanism. If it is the former then one expects cellular abnormalities pathology and loss of organ function only in the tissue in which Ercc1 is deleted. If it is the latter one expects increased cell death and or senescence and aging related degenerative changes characteristic of the Ercc1 mice in more than one tissue. This approach will also enable identification of the tissue that is most vulnerable to endogenous DNA damage and is life limiting for Ercc1 mice.

Methods. Mice. Tissue specific deletion of Ercc1 is accomplished by crossing Ercc1 flox mice with transgenic mice expressing Cre from a tissue specific promoter. Preliminary data demonstrate the feasibility of this approach. The focus is on deletion of Ercc1 in liver and kidney based on the fact that both tissues demonstrate profound progressive aging related pathology in Ercc1 mice. Furthermore there is an accumulation of endogenous DNA damage in these tissues as Ercc1 mice age. Therefore if DNA damage drives aging via a cell non autonomous mechanism liver and kidney may drive it.

To knock out Ercc1 in hepatocytes transgenic mice expressing Cre from the albumin and or alpha fetal protein promoters are used. To knock out Ercc1 in the kidney Nphs2 Cre and GT Cre are used. Nphs2 podocin is expressed in glomerular podocytes while GT gamma glutamyltransferase 1 is expressed in the proximal tubular epithelia. Preliminary data indicate that the podocytes are adversely affected in Ercc1 mice before the renal tubular epithelia. Comparing and contrasting pathology in these two kidney specific knock outs will reveal if damage to podocytes is sufficient to drive pathology in renal tubular epithelium i.e. a paracrine mechanism of aging .

Ercc1 is knocked out in endothelial cells differentiated muscle and differentiated hematopoietic cells. Characterization of all of these tissue specific knock outs will be similar. The goal is to determine whether increased DNA damage in one tissue is sufficient to drive senescence ROS production mitochondrial dysfunction NF B activation stem cell dysfunction in that tissue only or in neighboring cell types and other tissues as well.

Analyzing tissue specificity. To confirm that Ercc1 and therefore DNA repair has been genetically depleted in one tissue only ERCC1 expression is measured in the liver kidney brain bone marrow and spleen of the animals and compared to WT controls and Ercc1 mice using immunoblot or immunofluorescence. Likewise the levels of cyclopurines are measured in the liver kidney and bone marrow of these mice. In the targeted tissue cyclopurines adduct levels should be similar to the levels in Ercc1 mice. But the adduct levels in other tissues should be closer to WT levels.

Measuring the Impact on Organ Function and Tissue Pathology. The phenotype of tissue specific Ercc1 knock outs are evaluated at 2 and 5 months of age and compared to Ercc1 mice. A third cohort of tissue specific knock outs is developed to measure lifespan and end of life pathology. Serum chemistries and urinalysis are used to measure organ function liver kidney pancreas muscle . The mice are necropsied and tissue sections from multiple organs examined for pathology and compared to Ercc1 mice by the veterinary pathologist. In addition the following staining techniques are used to measure cell death cell senescence ROS production and mitochondrial function.

Measuring Cell Senescence. Senescence is measured by staining for senescence associated beta galactosidase SA gal activity. Frozen tissue sections are fixed with 0.25 glutaraldehyde and 2 paraformaldehyde for ten minutes at room temperature. The samples are rinsed 3 with PBS then stained with X gal solution 1 mg 5 bromo 4 chloro 3 indoyl D galactoside and 20 mg dimethylfomamide per ml in 40 mM citric acid sodium phosphate buffer pH 5.8 with 5 mM potassium ferrocyanide 5 mM potassium ferricyanide 150 mM NaCl and 2 mM MgCl2 . Additional measures of senescence are loss of proliferation Ki67 or PCNA immunostaining increased expression of p16 immunoblot or IVIS imaging of mice tissues harboring a p16 luciferase transgenic reporter and H2AX foci.

Measuring cell death. Tissues are fixed in 10 formalin for 2 hours cryoprotected in 30 sucrose overnight frozen using chilled 2 methylbutane and sectioned using a cryostat by standard procedures. Cleaved caspase 3 Cell Signaling Technology is used at a dilution of 1 250 with a 4 C. overnight incubation. Alternatively TUNEL staining can be used to measure apoptotic cells in tissue INVITROGEN .

Measuring ROS and mitochondrial morphology. ROS levels are measure in vivo using immuno spin trapping of protein centered radicals. Mice receive DMPO 5 5 dimethyl 1 pyrroline N oxide Alexis Biochemicals 2 g kg total in 3 doses 24 12 and 6 hr prior to sacrifice. DMPO is dissolved in pyrogen free saline and delivered i.p. At sacrifice tissue and organs are collected immediately frozen in liquid N2 and stored at 80 C. until analysis. Detection of DMPO protein adducts is determined by immunoblot. Briefly tissues are homogenized in Chelex treated PBS pH 7.4 containing 100 M DTPA and centrifuged at 3 000 RPM at 4 C. for 20 min. After SDS PAGE and transfer to PVDF membranes. DMPO adducted proteins are measured using a 1 rabbit polyclonal anti DMPO antibody 1 1000 Oxford Biochemicals followed by a goat anti rabbit 2 antibody 1 5000 Upstate Biotechnologies . Blots are developed using ECL plus chemiluminescence GE Amersham . Protein concentrations are determined using the BCA assay Pierce . Alternatively confocal analysis of tissue protein oxidation is used to semi quantitatively identify in which tissues there is increased ROS production. Tissues from DMPO injected mice are gently flushed with saline to remove blood followed by fixation in 3.5 PFA in PBS pH 7.4 for fixation. Tissues are placed in 30 sucrose for 24 hr then sectioned 70 m . Tissue sections are permeabilized with 0.1 Surfact Amps X 100 for 1 hr. After blocking with 0.1 BSA in PBS staining for DMPO protein radicals is accomplished using a 1 polyclonal anti DMPO antibody Oxford Biochemical and ALEXAFLUOR 568 anti rabbit 2 antibody. Background fluorescence is assessed by applying only the 2 antibody. Tissue sections are mounted on microscope cover glasses and analyzed under a confocal laser microscope Zeiss . Semiquantitation of the fluorescence signal mean fluorescence intensity is accomplished by converting all images to grayscale followed analysis with Scion Image software. Mitochondrial morphology is examined by electron microscopy.

Heterochronic parabiosis i.e. surgical pairing of young and old mice leading to anastomosis of their circulatory systems revealed that old mice have systemic factors that suppress muscle stem cell proliferation and myogenic differentiation hepatocyte proliferation and neurogenesis. In contrast blood of young mice contains factors that can reactivate myelination and muscle stem cell function in old mice.

These data strongly support the notion that aging is driven at least in part by endocrine systemic factors. However parabiosis has never been attempted in mice in which the primary cause of aging is chronic stochastic damage. Pairing of DNA repair deficient Ercc1 mice with WT littermates is a critical experiment for determining the mechanism by which stochastic DNA damage promotes aging related degeneration. Parabiosis is done between Ercc1 p16 luciferase and young WT mice. Endpoints measured include all of those used for quantifying aging related pathology cellular senescence mitochondrial function and DNA damage. Preliminary data indicates parabiosis between WT and Ercc1 mice is feasible. Conjoined mice have survived 2 months post surgery and gained weight. Additionally preliminary data indicate that a p16 luciferase transgene can be used to detect increased senescence in tissues of progeroid Ercc1 mice relative to WT littermates. Heterochronic parabiosis between young WT and old p16 luciferase mice is also done to determine if blood borne factors from young mice affects the amount of senescent cells that accumulate in tissues with normal aging.

Ercc1 NF B eGFP or old NF B eGFP mice are anastomosed with young WT mice to determine if circulating factors in young mice suppress the activation of NF B which occurs with accelerated and normal aging. If parabiosis of an Ercc1 mouse with a young healthy mouse delays or attenuates aging symptoms and degenerative diseases in the mutant mouse it will extend the results of the heterochronic experiments and demonstrate that aging related changes definitively initiated by stochastic cellular damage are driven at least in part by circulating factors.

If it is discovered that parabiosis of an Ercc1 mouse with a young healthy mouse reduces the amount of oxidative DNA damage in the mutant animal this cannot have occurred because DNA repair was restored in ERCC1 deficient mice. Instead it must be the consequence of something in the circulation of young mice that suppresses ROS in the aged mouse which would be consistent with a model in which increased ROS production likely as a consequence of mitochondrial dysfunction is a critical contributor to aging and would be consistent with preliminary data indicating that ROS levels are greater in ERCC1 deficient cells and mice. However this outcome would be quite unanticipated in a system where nuclear DNA damage is driving aging and would strongly support a cell nonautonomous mechanism of aging as a consequence endogenous damage.

Parabiosis. Mice are anesthetized with xylazine and ketamine HCl 10 mg kg 100 mg 10 kg body weight respectively by i.p. injection and joined by a modification of the technique of Bunster and Meyer. The corresponding lateral aspects of each mouse is shaved and sterilized with betadine. Matching skin incisions are made from the olecranon to the knee joint and the subcutaneous fascia is dissected to create cm of free skin. The olecranon and knee joints are attached by a single 2 0 silk suture and tie and the dorsal and ventral skins are approximated by staples. Cross circulation is confirmed by tracking flow of Evans blue dye from one mouse to the other following i.v. injection.

In vivo imaging for senescence. Mice harboring the p16 luciferase reporter are injected 10 min prior to imaging with 300 mg kg luciferin Gold BioTechnology reconstituted in PBS intraperitoneally. The mice are anesthetized using isoflurane and then imaged on black paper using IVIS200 Caliper Life Sciences for 2 min on medium binning. For terminal experiments the mice are euthanized by CO2 inhalation the organs dissected and imaged in the same manner to view organ specific luminescence.

Proteomics can be used to compare the profile of circulatory proteins in Ercc1 mice or mice in which Ercc1 is tissue specifically deleted to that of young WT mice to identify systemic signals activated in response to DNA damage and with old age.

Heterochronic parabiosis experiments revealed that old mice have circulating factors that negatively impact tissue regeneration in young mice. This experiment is designed to reveal if the same holds true in mice in which accelerated aging is driven by stochastic damage and the goal of this experiment is to identify those factors. Modern protein mass spectrometry methods are focused on the measurement and identification of secreted factors that change with age and are driven by DNA damage. This problem is studied using a combination of 1 unbiased and 2 targeted proteomic experiments.

Differential Mass Spectrometry dMS is an efficient MS based strategy for comparing complex biological samples including plasma and cellular extracts. This unbiased analysis of all ions detected by high resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometry not just ions that have corresponding MS MS spectra and peptide sequences is a powerful approach for discovering biologically relevant peptides and proteins and this technique was used successfully to identify candidate plasma and cerebral spinal fluid markers that track with disease progression and or respond to treatment with specific classes of drugs. An important advantage of the dMS approach is that it is not limited to the analysis of tryptic peptides and has been successfully applied to the identification of intact plasma peptides and proteins. To enable the detection of molecules present at low abundance a variety of classical biochemical sample preparation methods e.g. ultrafiltration strong cation exchange chromatography immuno depletion etc. are used to fractionate the proteome.

Targeted proteomics is a method that allows specific peptide and protein candidates to be measured with high sensitivity selectivity precision and speed. Peptides discovered with dMS or culled from the literature are measured with targeted proteomic assays across multiple model systems with similar symptoms e.g. old mice progeroid mice and senescent cells . In this fashion novel peptide markers that share similar amino acid sequences can be readily converted to targeted assays that translate between in vitro systems pre clinical animal models and human samples.

The ultimate goal is to identify proteins that are found in the circulation of old WT mice but not young mice. This is facilitated by also comparing the serum of progeroid mice to their WT littermates and senescent cells to non senescent cells. These latter experiments are much more rapid and support longitudinal study designs that are powerful for observing important differences that occur with time and treatment. Several interventions have been demonstrated to delay the onset of aging related degenerative changes in the Ercc1 mice chronic treatment with the mitochondrial radical scavenger XJB 5 131 chronic inhibition of NF B activation transplantation with young adult stem cells .

The transcription factor NF B is activated in response to different types of cellular stress including chronic inflammatory genotoxic and oxidative stress and is upregulated in multiple tissues with aging. However it is not known what cell types NF B is activated in during aging and what is driving activation. It also is not known whether NF B activation drives age associated degenerative changes through cell autonomous or non autonomous pathways or is a just a consequence of aging. In particular these experiments challenge the paradigm that NF B is activated with aging primarily in response to inflammation and subsequently drives aging through solely cell autonomous mechanisms. Instead the hypothesis that NF B activation is initially cell autonomous initially occurring only in cells that are experiencing genotoxic and or oxidative stress will be explored. NF B then regulates cell proliferation and function through both cell autonomous and in particular non autonomous mechanisms. This hypothesis is based on extensive preliminary data demonstrating increased NF B activity in a mouse model of accelerated aging Ercc1 due to a defect in nuclear DNA repair and in naturally aged mice that have accumulated oxidative DNA damage.

DNA damage. Based on preliminary results a novel model is proposed where stochastic accumulation of cellular damage in particular DNA damage induces NF B in a cell autonomous manner which then regulates ROS and senescence to drive aging through non cell autonomous pathways. Moreover the increase in ROS and or senescence feeds back through cell autonomous e.g. intracellular ROS and nonautonomous e.g. SASP pathways to increase DNA damage NF B activation and ROS to accelerate aging further. This model also predicts that an increase in NF B activity or ROS through other pathways e.g. cellular damage inflammation will result in increased DNA damage and subsequent further activation of the pathway.

This model is supported by preliminary data in ERCC1 deficient MEFs and in Ercc1 NF BeGFP reporter mice and in Ercc1 mice with reduced NF B activity as well as by recent studies showing ablation of senescent cells improves healthspan. To test the model the cell autonomous and non autonomous pathways through which NF B is activated with natural and accelerated aging are dissected using novel mouse models of aging containing the NF BeGFP reporter and mutations that prevent NF B activation by genotoxic and oxidative stress NEMODK cell autonomous or by inflammatory stress TNFR and Myd88 non cell autonomous .

In addition treatment of the novel NF BeGFP reporter mouse models with agents to increase ROS DNA damage and inflammation is used to dissect the different types of stress in driving NF B activation senescence DNA damage stem cell dysfunction and aging. Parabiosis experiments are performed to determine the cell autonomous and non autonomous activation of NF B by genotoxic and oxidative stress and its subsequent contribution to age related pathology. Primary MEFs from these novel mouse models also are used to dissect the upstream molecular mechanisms of NF B activation and downstream effectors that drive senescence ROS further DNA damage and aging. Subsequently the role of NF B activation in driving aging through both cell autonomous and non autonomous mechanisms is examined using the different mouse models either heterozygous for p65 or if necessary treated with the NF B inhibitory peptide and in heterochronic parabiosis experiments. Finally the NF B regulated factors secreted by ERCC1 deficient MEFs and in MDSPCs are identified which modulate aging both positively and negatively as well as the factors circulating in Ercc1 mice regulated by NF B.

These experiments will identify the cell autonomous and non autonomous pathways important for NF B activation and for mediating NF B dependent regulation of senescence ROS and oxidative DNA damage to drive aging.

p65 NF B is upregulated in ERCC1 deficient MEFs and drives senescence. To determine whether NF B is activated by endogenous genotoxic stress which arises as a consequence of normal metabolism Ercc1 primary cells and mice were used which are defective in DNA repair were used. Phosphorylated p65 p p65 and I B were measured in nuclear and cytoplasmic extracts from early passage congenic Ercc1and WT primary MEFs by immunoblot and there was a 2 fold increase in nuclear p p65 in Ercc1 MEFs compared to WT which correlated with an increase in the level of phosphorylated I B p I B in the cytoplasm. EMSA was used to confirm increased NF B binding in nuclear extracts of Ercc1 MEFs which was abrogated by pretreatment of the samples with an anti p65 antibody. To determine whether premature senescence of Ercc1 MEFs is NF B dependent the growth of Ercc1 p65 MEFs was compared to congenic Ercc1 MEFs. Ercc1 MEFs have reduced proliferation and increased replicative senescence as measured by SA Gal staining H2AX foci and p16 expression. Genetic depletion of p65 Ercc1 p65 delayed the onset of senescence suggesting that p65 is important in mediating senescence in response to genotoxic stress. Furthermore the Ercc1 p65MEFs had reduced ROS compared to Ercc1 cells as determined by staining mitochondria with DiOC6 and superoxide anion with MitoSOX. Finally the senescence of Ercc1 MEFs 60 of cells SA gal could be reversed within 24 hours by treating them with the IKK inhibitor IKKiVII.

Taken together these data suggested that endogenous DNA damage when not repaired drives cellular senescence via an NF B dependent mechanism. Inhibition of IKK NF B was as or more efficient in reversing senescence of Ercc1 MEFs than rapamycin potent anti oxidants XJB NDGA and a Nrf2 agonist bardoxolone methyl. SIRT1 agonists showed no activity in this assay. Interestingly consistent with previously published reports senescence of Ercc1 MEFs resulted in secretion of factors able to drive senescence of WT MEFs following addition of conditioned media demonstrating that a paracrine effect contributes to increasing senescence.

Naturally aged Ercc1and Ercc1 mice have increased NF B transcriptional activity. To determine whether NF B is activated in Ercc1 and Ercc1 mice relative to wild type littermate controls Ercc1 and Ercc1 mice were generated carrying an NF B dependent promoter containing 5 copies of the HIV LTR NF B binding site upstream from a minimal promoter driving eGFP expression transgene60. The Ercc1 NF BeGFP were sacrificed at 3 wks of age when they showed extensive age related pathologies and the tissues were analyzed for eGFP expression by fluorescence microscopy. All tissues from the progeroid mice had a quantitative significant increase in the number of eGFP cells p

However it remains unclear whether a non cell autonomous mechanism is involved in increasing NF B activation in neighboring or distant cells and tissues.

Genetic depletion of NF B extends lifespan and delays onset of age related pathology. To examine the role of NF B p65 in the aging process Ercc1 mice heterozygous for the p65 subunit Ercc1 p65 were generated which have significantly reduced NF B activity and the Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65 littermates were monitored biweekly for the onset of age related symptoms. The onset of the majority of symptoms characteristic of aging was delayed in Ercc1 p65 mice including trembling frailty sarcopenia ataxia ocular impairment kyphosis priapism and urinary incontinence all signs of neurodegeneration as well as kyphosis see .

Additionally the overall physical appearance of the Ercc1 p65 mice was dramatically improved. In addition to assessing outward signs of aging histologic analysis was performed. Compared to Ercc1 mice Ercc1 p65 mice exhibited reduced steatosis a marker of aged liver. Kidneys from Ercc1 mice had increased hyaline casts and glomerulosclerosis typical of aged kidney which were reduced in Ercc1 p65 mice. There also was a marked reduction in glial fibrillary acidic protein GFAP staining a marker of neurodegeneration in the cerebella of Ercc1 p65 mice. Finally osteoporosis was significantly reduced in Ercc1 p65 mice due to effects of p65 heterozygosity on both osteoblasts and osteoclasts as was intervertebral disc pathology.

Treatment with the 8K NBD peptide delays onset of aging like symptoms and pathology in Ercc1 mice. To determine whether pharmacological inhibition of the IKK NF B pathway also delays aging Ercc1 mice were chronically treated with the 8K NBD peptide 10 mg kg intraperitoneal 3 per week beginning at 5 weeks of age prior to the onset of aging symptoms. This peptide derived from an 11 amino acid sequence of IKK specifically blocks the interaction between IKK and NEMO inhibiting IKK activity. Mice treated with 8K NBD showed a delay in the onset of all symptoms compared to siblings treated with the mutant peptide with the exception of trembling. There also was a visible difference in the appearance of the mice treated with 8K NBD compared to their siblings treated with the mutant peptide at 15 and 19 weeks of age. Histologic analysis was performed on tissues of 19 week old mice to determine whether treatment with 8K NBD reduced age related pathology. Similar to the Ercc1 p65 mice 8K NBD treatment resulted in reduced liver steatosis and renal hyaline casts GFAP staining bone porosity and loss of islets in mice while restoring proteoglycan synthesis in intervertebral discs back to WT levels.

Collectively these data demonstrated that pharmacological inhibition of IKK NF B activation like heterozygosity in p65 leads to attenuation of age related pathologies.

Chronic i.p. administration of 8K NBD leads to suppression of NF B activity and age related transcriptional changes. Genome wide expression profiling of livers from Ercc1 mice treated with 8K NBD vs. mutant sibling mice treated with the control peptide were analyzed using Affymetrix arrays n 3 pairs . Numerous pathways previously implicated in the aging process were affected including growth hormone insulin like growth factor 1 GH IGF 1 signaling DNA repair pathways and inflammatory pathways. Interestingly catalase was significantly upregulated by chronic 8K NBD treatment as were genes regulated by Nrf2 and involved in mitochondrial respiration suggesting that part of the therapeutic effect could be due to reduced ROS. In addition of the approximately 300 genes with known NF B regulatory elements 8 showed significant expression differences between the two groups of mice. Expression of 89 27 30 of these genes was significantly down regulated in mice treated with NBD as expected with chronic IKK inhibition.

Taken together these data strongly suggested that NBD treatment regulates a battery of genes including those implicated in inflammation and oxidative stress which can modulate the aging process.

NF B drives DNA damage and senescence. Through the use of liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LC MS it has been demonstrated that oxidative DNA damage cyclopurine adducts was increased in the liver and the kidney of Ercc1 compared to normal littermates and increased as the animals aged. The level of damage also increased in WT mice with age. Interestingly the level of cyclopurines was significantly reduced in p65 and Ercc1 p65 mice and in Ercc1 mice chronically treated with 8K NBD.

These results suggested that NF B activity promotes ROS and oxidative damage in both naturally aged and Ercc1 mice. Importantly Ercc1 p65 mice also had fewer senescent cells compared to Ercc1 mice demonstrating that NF B also can drive senescence in vivo.

Reducing NF B p65 improves function of MDSPCs. It has been demonstrated that adult progenitor cells derived from muscle MDSPCs of ERCC1 deficient and old WT mice are dysfunctional. Injection of young but not old WT MDSCs into ERCC1 deficient mice significantly delayed the onset of age related pathology and extended lifespan via a paracrine endocrine mechanism. Interestingly reducing NF B in MDSPCs either genetically or pharmacologically improved their proliferation and ability to differentiate suggesting that NF B drives aging related loss of stem cell function.

Moreover IP injection of young p65 MDSPCs into a mouse model of muscular dystrophy improved muscle pathology to a much greater extent that WT MDSPCs.

Taken together these results with MDSPCs suggested that aging can be regulated through a paracrine endocrine mechanism by young stem cells and that NF B plays key role in regulating age related stem cell function and expression of the therapeutic factor s .

Determination of whether aging related NF B activation is mediated through a cell autonomous and or non autonomous mechanism. Preliminary results indicate that NF B is activated in more cells in a variety of tissues in old and progeroid mice compared to young. NF B activation was detected in particular cell types for example CD11BGr1 cells in the bone marrow and podocytes in the kidney. To determine whether this NF B activation is due to a cell autonomous or non autonomous mechanisms Ercc1 and WT mice containing the NF BeGFP reporter are crossed with one of three different strains of mice defective in different pathways for NF B activation. The first strain is deficient in DNA damage induced activation of NF B due to a knock in mutation in NEMO NEMODK . Arginine mutations in K270 and K302 of NEMO prevent sumoylation in response to DNA damage. NF B activation in response to gamma irradiation IR but not LPS or TNF is abrogated in cells from these mice. To address the role of inflammation induced NF B activation mice deficient in both TNF receptors containing targeted deletions in the p55 Tnfrsf1a and p75 Tnfrsf1b TNF receptors or MyD88 are used. These mice are defective for induction of NF B by TNF and IL 1R TLR respectively. To confirm that the reporter mice are responding as expected the NEMODK TNF R and MyD88 NF BeGFP reporter mice 10 weeks of age is irradiated and the extent of NF B activation assessed at 1 3 and 7 days post irradiation.

The NEMODK TNF Rand MyD88 Ercc1 or WT strains are examined for eGFP positive cells 3 mice per group at different time points every month for Ercc1 mice and every 6 months for naturally aged mice in different tissues liver kidney spleen brain muscle pancreas and bone marrow . The levels of ROS senescence liver oxidative DNA damage liver and kidney and onset of age related pathology are measured in the NEMODK TNF R deficient and IL 1 TLR signaling deficient mice 5 mice per group . Furthermore MDSPCs from the muscle of these mice are isolated and analyzed for reduction in number and for defects in proliferation and differentiation compared to young WT MDSPCs.

These experiments will examine which stress pathway s is important for driving activation of NF B in accelerated and naturally aged mice. To determine whether indeed it is chronic DNA damage that drives NF B activation in vivo and whether activation of NF B correlates with an increase in ROS senescence and age related pathologies the different mouse strains describe above are treated chronically with 8 g kg of mechlorethamine MEC which increases mono adducts intra strand crosslinks and inter strand crosslinks once per week for 6 weeks beginning at 8 weeks of age. Treatment of Ercc1 p16INK4 luciferase mice with MEC weekly for 6 weeks has been demonstrated to accelerate age related tissue pathology and senescence in vivo and in MEFs in culture. At 14 and 20 weeks of age the treated mice are euthanized and tissues collected for analysis of NF BeGFP expression compared to untreated animals.

Five mice are used per time point. ROS senescence oxidative DNA damage MDSPC dysfunction and the age at onset of aging related pathologies are measured and compared to untreated mice. These experiments will determine whether DNA damage induced by MEC treatment induces NF B cell senescence ROS and thereby oxidative DNA damage which would be a completely unprecedented outcome considering that MEC is an alkylating agent.

To examine the role of oxidative stress in driving NF B activation different reporters strains are chronically treated with a mitochondrial targeted radical scavenger XJB 5 131 2 mg kg i.p. 3 per week to reduce mitochondrial ROS or with menadione 0.35 mg g orally per day 30 days to increase mitochondrial ROS . To determine whether localized DNA damage can lead to activation of NF B in other undamaged cells and tissues consistent with a non cell autonomous mechanism the NF BeGFP transgene are combined tissue specific deletion of Ercc1. ERCC1 is deleted in cells in which significant NF B activation was observed e.g. renal podocytes CD11B cells myofibers as well as cells known to be sensitive to loss of Ercc1 e.g. cells hepatocytes . Liver kidney muscle pancreas and bone marrow from these mice will be examined for NF BeGFP activation at various time points via confocal detection of GFP.

Heterochronic parabiosis has been used to identify systemic factors that regulate tissue homeostasis and lifespan. Similarly parabiosis is used here to determine if NF B activation in one organism can impact tissue homeostasis in a second organism via circulating factors. Ercc1 mice are surgically paired with littermate WT NF BeGFP at 5 6 weeks of age to determine whether NF B activation in response to genotoxic stress activates NF B and tissue pathology in trans. Similarly aged WT mice 24 months are paired with young WT NF BeGFP mice 3 months . Conversely young WT animals are paired with old WT NF BeGFP mice 5 sets of mice per group to determine if factors secreted by young mice attenuate aging related NF B activation.

The extent of NF B activation in each tissue is examined following 1 2 and 3 months of parabiosis by identification of NF BeGFP cells. Similarly the extent of senescence ROS and oxidative DNA damage in liver and kidney in each of the paired mice is measured. In order to correlate NF B activation with age the onset of age related pathologies is also monitored and the extent of age related histological changes in liver kidney pancreas bone muscle bone marrow and brain is determined in each set of paired animals. The NEMODK TNF R and MyD88 NF BeGFP reporter mice also can be used in the heterochronic parabiosis experiments.

Examination of the cell autonomous and non autonomous roles of NF B in driving cell senescence ROS production and DNA damage in vitro. Preliminary results indicate that NF B plays a key role in regulating cellular senescence and ROS especially under conditions of cellular stress. The types of cellular stress genotoxic oxidative and inflammatory observed as activating NF B in vivo are characterized further in cell culture. Also the subsequent role of NF B in driving senescence ROS and further DNA damage through cell autonomous and or non autonomous mechanisms is characterized. For all the MEF experiments described below each time point and treatment is done in triplicate using three independent cell lines of each genotype. Primary MEFs from WT Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65mice are passaged at 3 and 20 oxygen the latter of which induces senescence. The MEFs are transduced at p2 with a lentiviral vector expressing a luciferase eGFP fusion protein driven from an NF B dependent promoter. The extent of NF B activation at each subsequent passage is measured by luciferase analysis of cell extracts. Concurrently the extent of senescence is measured at each passage by measuring cell number rate of proliferation SA gal activity H2AX foci and by p16 expression. This will reveal if NF B activation precedes the onset of senescence. To interrogate a cell autonomous mechanism populations of NF B eGFP positive and negative cells are isolated by flow cytometry and stained for proteins that can discriminate senescent cells H2AX SA gal and Ki67 . To further confirm the role of IKK NF B in maintaining senescence late passage cells will be treated with an IKK inhibitor and NF B activity and senescence measured at 3 12 and 24 hours post treatment.

To determine whether NF B activation is driving ROS production the levels of intra cellular ROS are measured in GFP cells using multiple assays at each passage. Whether there is a significant co localization of NF B activation eGFP cell senescence H2AX or SA gal and ROS is also measured. In addition ROS is measured in Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65 MEFs. To examine the role of oxidative stress in driving NF B activation and senescence primary MEFs from WT Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65 mice transduced with the lentiviral vector carrying a NF B activated luciferase eGFP fusion protein are treated with XJB 5 131 or menadione to decrease or increase mitochondrial superoxide anion respectively and NF B activation senescence and ROS measured.

It has been demonstrated that treatment of ERCC1 deficient MEFs with the genotoxin MEC induces cellular senescence in vitro. To determine whether treatment with MEC induces NF B dependent senescence passage 3 4 and 5 WT Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65 MEFs are treated with MEC for 24 hours and the extent of NF B activation cell senescence ROS production and oxidative DNA damage measured.

If the hypothesis is correct DNA damage induced by MEC monoadducts intra strand crosslinks and inter strand crosslinks will induce NF B cell senescence and ROS and thereby increase oxidative DNA damage demonstrating a feedback loop.

To examine further the role of NEMO sumoylation in driving NF B activation and cell senescence MEFs are isolated from WT and ERCC1 deficient NF BeGFP reporter strains homozygous for the NEMODK mutation. NF B activation cellular proliferation and expression of senescence markers will be measured at each passage at 20 O2. If this hypothesis is correct MEFs containing NEMODK will have reduced NF B activation ROS levels replicative senescence and oxidative DNA damage compared to controls. To determine whether NF B activation has cell non autonomous effects MEFs from WT and Ercc1 NF B eGFP reporter strains deficient for TNF R or MyD88 are used.

If inflammatory factors secreted from the senescent cells play a role in driving further activation of NF B eGFP signal ROS senescence and even DNA damage should be reduced in cells defective in TNF R or IL 1R TLR signaling.

Since supernatants from senescent Ercc1 MEFs like IR induced senescence can drive senescence of WT MEFs the effect of supernatants from senescent Ercc1 MEFs on NF B activation ROS production cell senescence and oxidative DNA damage is examined. In order to examine the ability of NF B in the absence of initiating DNA damage to drive senescence ROS and then DNA damage cell autonomously WT p65 Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65MEFs are treated with low doses 5 50 ng of IL 1 and or IL 1 chronically every 2 days starting at passage 3 3 02 and the extent of NF B activation senescence ROS and oxidative DNA damage measured at each subsequent passage. MEFs deficient in MyD88 are used as a negative control. Here it is anticipated that treatment with IL 1 or IL 1 will result in NF B activation which in turn will lead to an increase in ROS and senescence with subsequent DNA damage that is higher in Ercc1 MEFs compared to WT.

This analysis will confirm the presence of a feedback loop and will identify a role for inflammatory stress in inducing senescence ROS and or oxidative DNA damage.

Determination of whether NF B mediates cellular senescence ROS production DNA damage and aging related degenerative diseases via a cell autonomous or non autonomous mechanism in vivo. The in vivo experiments will determine what cell autonomous and non autonomous pathways are important for driving NF B activation with aging. The role of activated NF B in driving age related pathology through cell autonomous and non autonomous pathways in response to different stimuli is assessed using similar mouse models as utilized but heterozygous for p65. In addition p65 heterozygosity in the same tissues as ERCC1 is deleted in are generated using a floxed p65 allele. Initially to examine the role of NF B in inducing age related pathology as well as senescence ROS and oxidative DNA damage in response to increased DNA damage NF increase the magnitude of the observed effect s Ercc1 p65 and Ercc1 mice are injected with 8 g kg of MEC once per week for 6 weeks starting at 8 weeks of age and the onset of age related pathologies monitored as well as analysis of tissue histology and levels of ROS senescence and oxidative DNA damage performed at 14 and 20 weeks. To examine the effect of oxidative stress induced NF B on driving aging Ercc1 p65 and Ercc1 are treated with menadione 0.35 mg g orally per day 30 days to increase mitochondrial ROS starting at 8 weeks of age and the extent of NF B activation ROS senescence and DNA damage measured at 14 and 20 weeks.

To examine the effect of non genotoxic stress induced NF B on driving aging Ercc1 p65 and Ercc1 mice are injected IP with 100 ng of IL 1 and or IL 1 every three days starting at 8 weeks of age and the extent of NF B activation ROS senescence and DNA damage measured at 14 and 20 weeks. To determine whether reducing NF B results in expression of soluble factors able to regulate age related degeneration DNA damage senescence and or ROS parabiosis experiments are performed where Ercc1 p65 mice are paired parabiotically with Ercc1 starting at 1 month and the timing of onset of age related pathology determined. Similarly tissues from both mice are analyzed every two months for the extent of senescence ROS and DNA damage compared to paired Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65 mice.

As additional controls Ercc1 mice carrying mutations in NEMO NEMODK Myd88 or both TNF receptors can be used. Also if needed the Ercc1 or Ercc1 p65 mice can be pre treated with MEC menadione or IL 1 prior to parabiotic pairing to enhance specific effects.

The results suggest that young but not old MDSPCs secrete or release soluble factors able to improve lifespan and healthspan. In addition preliminary results also suggest that p65 MDSPCs have improved function over WT MDSPCs. Thus the ability of MDSPCs derived from p65 heterozygous WT and Ercc1 mice to extent lifespan and healthspan of Ercc1 and Ercc1 mice respectively will be evaluated. For these experiments 106 of the different MDSPC populations are injected IP and effects on lifespan and healthspan as well as ROS senescence and DNA damage are examined as previously reported. Preliminary results suggest that tissue or cell type specific deletion of ERCC1 results in adverse effects in not only the ERCC1 deficient cells but also in other cells within the microenvironment and possibly systemically.

Thus the role of NF B in conferring the cell autonomous and or non autonomous effects observed is evaluated by simultaneously inactivating ERCC1 and one allele of p65 in the same cell type or tissue. For these experiments mice carrying null and floxed alleles of ERCC1 and one floxed allele of p65 are generated. The pathologies of the tissue specific ERCC1 KO mice are compared to pathologies in the combined tissue specific ERCC1 and p65 KO.

Proteomics used to identify proteins secreted by primary differentiated and stem cells in which NF B is activated and in the serum of mice in which NF B activation is increased due to stress or aging. The goal of these experiments is to identify the factor s regulated by NF B which are able to confer negative and positive effects on aging. In particular the factors secreted by ERCC1 deficient MEFs in which NF B is activated able to drive ROS production and cell senescence and or secreted by MDSPCs genetically depleted of NF B that are able to improve tissue homeostasis are identified by proteomic analysis of the secretomes. Moreover based on results from the MEF analysis the factors circulating in the serum of Ercc1 or Ercc1 p65 mice that drive and inhibit aging respectively are identified.

Serum from Ercc1 and Ercc1 p65 mice are compared. The un biased analysis of all ions detected by high resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometry not just ions that have corresponding MS MS spectra and peptide sequences is a powerful approach for discovering biologically relevant peptides and proteins. An important advantage of the dMS approach is that it is not limited to the analysis of tryptic peptides and has been successfully applied to the identification of intact plasma peptides and proteins. To enable the detection of molecules present at low abundance a variety of classical biochemical sample preparation methods e.g. ultrafiltration strong cation exchange chromatography immuno depletion etc. are used to fractionate the secretome of the different MEF and MDSPC populations.

The fractions are tested for biological activity by their ability to induce senescence of MEFs or for rescue of aged MDSPCs prior to mass spectrometry analysis. Those secreted or released factors identified as regulated by NF B in Ercc1 MEFs and MDSPCs are validated using either lentiviral gene transfer of shRNA to reduce expression or cDNAs to increase expression and the effects on MEF and MDSPCs determined.

In particular the ability of the conditioned media from genetically modified MEFs to induce senescence of WT MEFs is assessed. In addition the ability of genetically modified MDSPCs to rescue aged MDSPCs and subsequently the ability to extend healthspan and lifespan in ERCC1 deficient mice following IP injection is determined.

Factors present specifically in the serum of Ercc1 compared to Ercc1 p65 representing possible biomarkers of aging is examined in the serum of naturally aged mice.

These experiments will serve to identify the factors that drive or inhibit aging that are regulated by NF B. If successful the proposed experiments could lead to novel therapeutics for treating age related degenerative diseases and or biomarkers of aging.

In this study the role of mTOR in the multilineage differentiation apoptosis and senescence of MDSPCs isolated from a murine model of progeria was examined. MDSPCs were isolated from the Ercc1 murine model of accelerated aging. These mice exhibited increased mTOR expression and exhibited a reduction in autophagy. Inhibiting mTOR in this adult stem cell population improved their myogenic and chondrogenic capacities and reduced the adipogenic differentiation capacity of the progeroid MDSPCs.

The purpose of this study was to determine if mTOR signaling plays a role in stem cell dysfunction as it relates to aging. Exposing progeroid MDSPCs to rapamycin promoted multilineage differentiation while attenuating apoptosis and cellular senescence therefore demonstrating that inhibition of mTOR rescues the defect in Ercc1 MDSPCs and could represent a target to delay aging.

Rapamycin was obtained from LC Laboratories Woburn Mass. USA dissolved in dimethyl sulphoxide DMSO at 50 mg ml and stored at 20 C. MDSPCs from Ercc1 and WT mice were treated with 10 nM rapamycin in order to inhibit mTOR. As a control the same amount of DMSO was used to treat MDSPCs from these two populations.

MDSPCs were plated in the afternoon at a density of 1 000 cells cmand cultured for 3 days. The cells were then placed in DMEM supplemented with 2 FBS for an additional 4 days to induce myogenic differentiation with or without 10 nM rapamycin. On day 7 immunostaining was performed to reveal fast myosin heavy chain expression f MyHC a marker of terminal myogenic differentiation. Cold methanol fixed cultures were blocked with 5 goat serum and incubated with f MyHC mouse monoclonal antibody 1 250 SIGMA ALDRICH secondary biotinylated IgG 1 250 Vector Laboratories for one hour and streptavidin 594 1 500 SIGMA ALDRICH for 15 minutes to fluorescently label the myotubes. Nuclei were counter stained with 4 6 diamidino 2 phyenylindole DAPI 100 ng ml SIGMA ALDRICH for 10 minutes. The presence of fluorescein was visualized using a Leica DMIRB microscope equipped with a Retiga digital camera and evaluated using Northern Eclipse software v. 6.0 Empix Imaging . Myogenic differentiation was calculated as the percent of cells expressing f MyHC. Data from three replica plates for four independent experiments were analyzed. Total RNA was also extracted as described below for quantitative RT PCR analysis. Expression of myogenic genes MyHC and Desmin were analyzed.

To assess chondrogenic differentiation micromass cultures were established as described previously see Ahrens et al. 197760 69 82 San Antonio et al. 1987123 17 24 and Kishimoto et al. 200933 1222 1229 . A 10 l suspension containing 1 10cells was placed at the center of a well of a 12 well tissue culture dish. The cells were allowed to adhere for 60 min before the wells were filled with 1 ml of chondrogenic medium Lonza supplemented with 10 ng ml transforming growth factor 3 TGF 3 R D System with or without 10 nM of rapamycin. The medium was changed every three days for six days. Cultured micromass pellets were fixed with 10 neutral buffered formalin containing 0.1 acetylpyridinium chloride and stained with 1 Alcian blue pH 1.0 for 30 min to stain the highly sulfated proteoglycans that are characteristic of cartilaginous matrices. For quantification alcian blue stain was solubilized in 4M guanidine HCl 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 0.1 CHAPS and the pellet s absorbance was measured at a wavelength of 595 nm as previously described see Kishimoto et al. 200933 1222 1229 . Data from three replica plates for four independent experiments were analyzed. Total RNA was extracted for quantitative real time PCR RT PCR analysis. Expression of the chondrogenic genes collagen type 2A1 Col2A1 and aggrecan were analyzed.

MDSPCs were seeded on 12 well plates at a concentration of 1 10cells per well. After the cells had reached confluence adipogenic differentiation was induced by exposure to three cycles of standard induction maintenance media with or without 10 nM rapamycin. This consisted of culturing the cells for 72 hours in adipogenic induction media containing dexamethasone 3 isobutyl 1 methyl xanthine IBMX recombinant human insulin and indomethacin followed by 48 hours of culture in maintenance media LONZA . Adipogenesis was assessed using ADIPORED Lonza a marker of accumulation of intracellular triglycerides. Cells were stained with ADIPORED for 10 min according to the manufacturer s instructions and visualized using fluorescence microscopy. Nuclei were stained with DAPI. For quantification after 10 min of incubation the plate was placed in the spectrophotometer INFINITE M200 Tecan Switzerland and the fluorescence was measured using an excitation wavelength of 485 nm and emission detection wavelength at 572 nm. Data from three replica plates for four independent experiments were analyzed. Total RNA was extracted for quantitative RT PCR analysis. Expression of adipogenic genes Peroxisomes proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR and Lipoprotein lipase LPL was analyzed.

Apoptotic cell death was evaluated in cultured cells using the In Situ Cell Death Detection kit containing fluorescein Roche Applied Science for TUNEL detection according to the manufacturer s protocol. To visualize the nuclei the cultures were incubated with DAPI for 10 min. The presence of fluorescein as a cell death marker was visualized using a Leica DMIRB microscope. The number of cells that were TUNEL positive was calculated and averaged across 15 fields each from three replica plates for four independent experiments. The percent of apoptotic cells was calculated as TUNEL positive cells divided by the total number of cells and then multiplied by 100.

Cellular senescence was evaluated in cultured cells using the Senescence Galactosidase Staining Kit Cell Signaling Technology for SA gal activity according to the manufacturer s protocol. Images were captured using a LEICA DMIRB microscope. The number of cells that were SA gal positive was calculated and averaged across 15 fields each from three replica plates for four independent experiments. The percent of senescent cells was calculated as SA gal positive cells divided by the total number of cells and then multiplied by 100.

Cells were lysed in Laemmli Sample Buffer Bio Rad boiled for 5 min and centrifuged at 4 000 r.p.m. for 5 min. The samples were loaded on a 4 12 SDS polyacrylamide gel transferred to an Immobilon PVDF transfer membrane Millipore Inc. and probed with primary antibodies followed by HRP conjugated secondary antibody. Proteins were visualized with ECL Plus reagent Amersham Biosciences and the chemical luminescent reaction visualized using a FOTO Analyst Luminary Fx CCD imaging system Fotodyne Inc. . The following antibodies were used in this study rabbit anti Poly ADP ribose polymerase PARP rabbit anti P16 rabbit anti P21 rabbit anti LC3 rabbit anti mTOR rabbit anti phospho mTOR p mTOR rabbit anti phospho 4E BP1 p 4E BP1 Thr37 46 rabbit anti phospho p70 S6 p p70 S6 kinase Thr389 rabbit anti GAPDH HRP conjugated goat anti rabbit IgG and HRP conjugated goat anti mouse IgG all antibodies are from Cell Signaling Technology . The intensities of the bands were quantified using image analysis software ImageJ version NIH Image . Values were normalized relative to GAPDH expressions.

Total RNA was extracted with QIAshredder homogenizers and the RNEASY Mini kit QIAGEN according to the manufacturer s protocol. One microgram of total RNA was used for random hexamer primed cDNA synthesis using a SUPERSCRIPT II pre amplification system INVITROGEN . Quantitative RT PCR reactions were performed in triplicate using iQ5 BIO RAD and Maxima SYBR Green ROX qPCR Master Mix THERMO and 300 nM of each of the primers. The primers were designed based on the sequences in the GenBank database. The primer pairs used for this study are shown in Table 6. 2.5 agarose gel electrophoresis was performed to ensure accurate outcomes of the reactions.

The data were expressed as a mean standard deviation SD . For multiple comparisons the one way ANOVA or the Kruskal Wallis tests were applied. Pair wise multiple comparisons were performed using the Tukey Kramer or Scheffe s post hoc test. Data analyses were performed using PASW Statistics 21 SPSS Chicago Ill. . Statistical significance was accepted at p

Inhibition of mTOR signaling contributes to the aging related dysfunction seen in MDSPCs isolated from progeroid Ercc1 mice as shown by the phosphorylation of downstream signaling components of the mTOR pathway see . The expression of p mTOR p 4E BP1 and p p70 S6 kinase in Ercc1 MDSPCs was enhanced compared with WT MDSPCs p mTOR p

A decline in autophagy which is regulated by mTOR contributes to aging see Cavallini et al. 20073 26 27 Hands et al. 2009 Aging 1 586 597 Morselli et al. 20091 961 970 and Ravikumar et al. 200436 585 595 . LC3 expression was measured which correlates with autophagic activity see Mizushima et al. 20073 542 545 . Immunoblotting analysis revealed that the amount of LC3 II was significantly decreased in Ercc1 MDSPCs compared to WT MDSPCs p

To determine whether the myogenic differentiation capacity of the progeroid Ercc1 MDSPCs was affected by mTOR signaling the cells were cultured to confluence and then switched to differentiation medium. In the presence or absence of rapamycin the WT MDSPCs fused to form multinucleated myotubes expressing f MyHC a marker of terminal myogenic differentiation see and . In contrast MDSPCs isolated from the progeroid Ercc1 mice formed significantly fewer and smaller myotubes indicating impaired differentiation p

MDSPC micromass cultures chondrogenic activity assay were treated with or without rapamycin and maintained for six days prior to alcian blue staining to detect chondrocytes see . Compared with the WT MDSPCs the progeroid MDSPCs exhibited a marked reduction in chondrogenic differentiation p

MDSPCs were cultured in adipogenic medium with or without rapamycin for 15 days and then stained using AdipoRed adipogenic marker . The capacity for adipogenic differentiation was higher in the progeroid Ercc1 MDSPCs compared to the WT MDSPCs p

Some adult stem cell populations are dramatically affected by stress leading to increased apoptosis see Rossi et al. 2007447 725 729 . The level of apoptosis in MDSPCs was determined using the TUNEL assay. The percent of TUNEL positive cells in the Ercc1 MDSPCs was significantly higher than in the WT MDSPCs p

Cellular senescence is characterized by cell cycle arrest which leads to an irreversible loss of differentiation capacity see Roobrouck et al. 2008314 1937 1944 . To determine the extent of senescence in MDSPCs isolated from Ercc1 mice senescence associated beta galactosidase SA gal activity was measured. The percent of SA gal positive cells in the Ercc1 MDSPCs was significantly increased compared to the WT MDSPCs p

These results demonstrated that inhibiting mTOR e.g. decreasing mTOR activity using rapamycin improved the myogenic and chondrogenic differentiation potentials of progeroid Ercc1 MDSPCs and reduced their adipogenic differentiation capacity by decreasing the percentage of cells undergoing apoptosis attenuating the rate of senescence and promoting autophagy. These results provide novel insights into the spontaneous and premature onset of aging related changes associated with progeria and the role that mTOR has on the accelerated aging of adult stem cells and distinguish important mechanisms through which mTOR impacts the aging process.

While the invention has been described in conjunction with the detailed description thereof the foregoing description is intended to illustrate and not limit the scope of the invention which is defined by the scope of the appended claims. Other aspects advantages and modifications are within the scope of the following claims.

