---

title: Content item presentation system
abstract: In one aspect, a content item presentation server sends, to a first client of the server, browser-executable instructions implementing a presentation application. The instructions are configured to present, at the first client, at least a portion of a content item in the presentation application with at least one user control of the presentation application for navigating the content item in a particular manner disabled. After sending the instructions, the server receives, from a second client of the server, a first command to navigate the content item in the particular manner. In response to receiving the first command, the server sends, to the first client, a second command to navigate the content item in the particular manner thereby causing the presentation application to automatically navigate, at the first client, the content item in the particular manner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407728&OS=09407728&RS=09407728
owner: Dropbox, Inc.
number: 09407728
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20131108
---
The disclosed embodiments related generally to electronic meeting systems. More particularly the disclosed embodiments related to methods systems and user interfaces for presenting content items in a distributed client server system.

A variety of electronic meeting systems including web conferencing systems are well known. In web conferencing systems files may be shared with and presented to a remote audience of users. However for web conferencing becoming a member of the remote audience is relatively difficult or awkward. In particular a user is required to have dedicated web conferencing software pre installed on his or her computer in order to receive a presentation. In some cases the user realizes the pre installation requirement at or near the time the presentation starts. In these cases the user may miss the beginning of the presentation hold up the start of the presentation or may miss the presentation altogether while downloading and installing the necessary software.

As users use a wide variety of different computing platforms e.g. IOS based devices ANDROID based devices WINDOWS based devices UNIX based devices etc. it would be helpful to view presentations on each of these devices without being limited by platform compatibility requirements of dedicated web conferencing software.

In one aspect of the invention a server having one or more processors and memory sends to a first client of the server browser executable instructions implementing a presentation application. The instructions are configured to present at the first client at least a portion of a content item in the presentation application with at least one user control of the presentation application for navigating the content item in a particular manner disabled. After sending the instructions the server receives from a second client of the server a first command to navigate the content item in the particular manner. In response to receiving the first command the server sends to the first client a second command to navigate the content item in the particular manner thereby causing the presentation application to automatically navigate at the first client the content item in the particular manner.

In another aspect of the invention a first client having one or more processors and memory sends a request to a server to receive a presentation of a content item. In response to sending the request the first client receives from the server browser executable instructions implementing a presentation application receives at least a portion of the content item from the server and presents at least a portion of the content item in the presentation application with at least one user control of the presentation application for navigating the content item in a particular manner disabled. After sending the request the first client receives from the server a first command to navigate the content item in the particular manner. In response to receiving the first command the first client automatically navigates the content item in the particular manner.

In another aspect of the invention a first client having one or more processors and memory sends a request to a server to control a presentation of a content item at one or more other clients of the server. In response to sending the request the first client receives from the server browser executable instructions implementing a presentation application receives at least a portion of the content item from the server and presents at least a portion of the content item in the presentation application. After sending the request the first client detects user input to an enabled user control of the presentation application to navigate the content item in a particular manner. In response to detecting the user input the first client sends to the server a first command to automatically navigate the content item in the particular manner to be forwarded by the server to the one or more other clients of the server also configured with the presentation application but with at least the user control disabled.

Methods systems user interfaces and other aspects of the invention are described. In the following specification embodiments of the invention are described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Also in the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

As used herein a content item refers to a piece of digital content that is treated as a single logical entity. A content item may have one or more types and may have one or more names. A content item may be stored in a computer in a variety of different content item container formats and in different container formats at different times. For example a content item may initially be stored in one or more addressable data blocks that are distributed among one or more server computing devices. A personal computing device may download the content item from the server in one or more network data packets. After downloading the personal computing device may then store the content item as a file or folder in an operating system file system of the personal computing device.

Clients can be any number of computing devices e.g. Internet kiosk personal digital assistant cell phone gaming device desktop computer laptop computer handheld computer tablet computer or combinations thereof used to enable the activities described below.

Client are coupled to network which can be any of a number of networks e.g. Internet intranet local area network wide area network wireless network wired network optical network or a combination of such networks . More generally clients and presentation servers are coupled to each other via one or more communication networks .

A respective client B executes a client application that facilitates access from the client to a respective hosted presentation server . The client application may include a graphical user interface. For example the client application may be a web browser or other browser application such as FIREFOX INTERNET EXPLORER SAFARI or CHROME.

While system may have a single presentation server in other embodiments system has multiple presentation servers . For example multiple presentation servers A and B may be hosted by different service providers such as providers A and B respectively. In some embodiments the providers are internet service providers ISPs providing a presentation service. Alternatively some or all of the providers may be dedicated presentation providers. When system includes multiple presentation servers the presentation servers may be coupled together directly or by a local area network LAN or via network or by another type of network.

The presentation server s host presentations between participants . More specifically each presentation server hosts presentations on behalf of a set of users. At least some of those users are subscribers of the hosted presentation system and thus have user accounts. As described in more detail below some of the presentation participants need not be subscribers of the hosted presentation system. When user commands to navigate the content item that is the subject of a presentation are made by the presenter participant in the presentation the commands are sent to all the presentation servers that host presentations for the viewer participants in the presentation. Those presentation servers in turn send the commands to the clients being used by the viewer participants in the presentation. The navigation commands may be sent relatively instantaneously e.g. within a second or two to the clients of viewer participants in the presentation.

Client corresponds to a respective client of and is sometimes herein called a participant client because the user of client is a participant in one or more presentations hosted by the presentation server . For a given presentation hosted by the presentation server involving multiple participant clients one of the participant clients is sometimes herein called a presenter client because the user of the participant client is the presenter of the presentation and the other of the participant clients are sometimes herein called viewer clients because the users of those participant clients view the presentation being presented by the user of the presenter client.

Participant client optionally includes a browser such as a web browser or other client application to facilitate participant interaction with a respective presentation server . The browser typically supports partially or fully and perhaps with modifications or deviations that may vary between different types makes or versions of browsers a set of one or more web standards as defined by one or more web standards setting organizations or consortiums. The set of web standards may include but is not limited to one or more of a Hypertext Markup Language HTML standard e.g. HTML5 a Document Object Model DOM standard a Scalable Vector Graphics SVG standard a Cascading Style Sheets CSS standard or a EcmaScript JavaScript language standard. Browser may also include a virtual machine e.g. a Java virtual machine for executing software embedded in web pages and other documents rendered by browser .

In some embodiments browser executes a presentation application that is embedded at least in part in a web page. The web page is downloaded from a server such as presentation server to the client . The web page includes browser executable instructions that are executed by the browser and or the virtual machine of the browser at the client . The browser executable instructions may be only web standards based instructions only virtual machine instructions or a combination of web standards based instructions and virtual machine instructions. Non limiting examples of web standards based instructions include one or more sets of following types of instructions HTML CSS SVG or EcmaScript JavaScript. An example of virtual machine instructions include a set of Java programming language instructions or a bytecode version thereof. However virtual machine instructions are not limited to only Java programming language instructions or byte code versions of Java programming language instructions.

If the browser executable instructions are only web standards based instructions then the browser executable instructions are executed by the browser . If the browser executable instructions are only virtual machine instructions then the browser executable instructions are executed by the virtual machine of the browser . If the browser executable instructions are a combination of web standards based instructions and virtual machine instructions then some of the browser executable instructions are executed by the browser and some of the browser executable instructions are executed by the virtual machine of the browser . The browser and presentation application together form the client application of . The presentation application facilitates participant participation in a presentation with the presentation server system as described in greater detail below with reference to and .

In some other embodiments presentation application is a plug in or extension of the browser application .

In some embodiments a presentation server includes a front end or presentation engine for managing presentations and communications with participant clients . Presentation server may also include participant online presence service enabling a participant e.g. a presenter or participants e.g. the presenter and viewers in a presentation to know the online status of other participants. Server may also include a user database described below with reference to a navigation and command router a hosted presentations database described below with reference to and a content item database described below with reference to and and or a content item converter .

Rendering engine implements functionality for parsing rendering and displaying in a window of the browser a currently navigated to portion of a content item. In certain embodiments the portion of the content item is in a Portable Document PDF Format and rendering the portion includes parsing the PDF instructions of the portion translating the PDF instructions to HTML5 canvas drawing instructions and providing the drawing instructions to the browser for execution to draw the portion of the content item on a HTML5 canvas displayed in the window of the browser . In other certain embodiments the portion of the content item is in a digital image format e.g. TIFF and rendering the portion of the content item includes instructing the browser to render the digital image in the browser window. More generally rendering engine implements functionality for displaying in a window of browser a currently navigated to portion of the content item being presented by providing display instructions to the browser itself e.g. through a web standards based Application Programming Interface API or to a virtual machine of the browser e.g. through an API offered by the virtual machine .

Network handler implements application level functionality for communicating with a presentation server . Such communication may include sending content item navigation commands to the presentation server if the presentation application is being executed at a presenter client or receiving navigation commands from the presentation server if the presentation application is being executed at a viewer client. In certain embodiments network communication between the participant client and the presentation server occurs according to a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or a Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS . Navigation commands and other presentation control information may be encoded for transport over HTTP or HTTPS in any data interchange format suitable for the requirements of the implementation at hand. Non limiting examples of possible data interchange formats include Javascript Object Notation JSON eXtensible Markup Language XML or a protocol buffer.

The presentation application also includes user navigation controls for navigating a displayed content item in various ways. Each user navigation control implements functionality for navigating the content item in a particular manner. The number and type of user navigation controls may vary from presentation application to different presentation application .

In some embodiments the content item being presenting is divided in a series of pages or slides and the user navigation controls include controls for navigating through the series of pages or slides. Such controls may include but are not limited to controls for 

In addition to or instead of controls for navigating a content item by page slide user navigation controls may include navigation controls for 

The above are just some examples of possible user navigation controls for navigating a displayed content item. More generally user navigation controls include but are not limited to any controls provided by the presentation application for changing the portion of the content item that is currently displayed in the browser window from a currently displayed portion to another portion.

User navigation controls may correspond to but are distinct from user interface controls for activating the user navigation controls . User interface controls for activating user navigation controls can take a variety of different forms including graphical user interface controls keyboard user interface controls pointing device controls and touch sensitive surface controls as examples. User navigation controls implement various navigation functions which can be activated by user interface controls. For example the Page Down button on a QWERTY keyboard when depressed may activate a navigate to a next page slide from a current page slide user navigation control . As another example an actionable thumbnail image of a page slide of the presented content item displayed in a graphical user interface when clicked on using a pointing device or touched using a touch gesture on a touch sensitive surface may activate a navigating to a specified page slide user navigation control .

In some embodiments some or all of user navigation controls of the presentation application executing on a viewer client are disabled during a presentation of a content item. That is their ordinary function when enabled cannot be invoked by the user of the viewer client by activating a corresponding user interface control. This allows the navigation of the content item presented at the viewer clients to be controlled by the user of the presenter client during the presentation. In some embodiments the user interface controls corresponding to disabled user navigation controls are also disabled. Alternatively some user interface controls corresponding to some disable user navigation controls may be disabled while others are not disabled. In some embodiments none of the user interface controls corresponding to disabled user navigation controls are disabled. When a user of a viewer client attempts to invoke a disabled user navigation control by activating a corresponding user interface control the user may receive a message such as Navigation is currently disabled or similar informative message. Thus a user interface control corresponding to a disabled user navigation control may also be disabled but may be enabled. In either case the disabled user navigation control cannot be activated by activation of the corresponding user interface control.

The window displays a portion of a content item. The portion may be a page or a slide of the content item or other logical section of the content item or some portion thereof. The displayed portion may include visual content such as text images animations video or some combination thereof.

The graphical user interface includes a number of graphical user interface controls and for navigating the content item. Each of the graphical user interface controls and may correspond to a user navigation control which may be enabled or disabled depending on whether the participant client is a viewer client or a presenter client. In some embodiments some or all of graphical user interface controls and are presented on the graphical user interface only if the participant client is a presenter client. In some embodiments if participant client is a viewer client then at least during the presentation of the content item the GUI includes the content item portion but does not include any of graphical user interface controls or for navigating the content item.

The GUI includes scrollable thumbnail page slide view navigation panel . The panel includes a number of user selectable thumbnail images or icons each representing a page slide or navigable section of the content item. If the corresponding user navigation control is enabled the user may navigate directly to a particular page slide or section of the content item by selecting the corresponding thumbnail image or icon . In the example of the user has selected thumbnail image or icon B as indicated by bolded box outline. The panel also includes a scrollbar for scrolling through all of the thumbnail images or icons available on panel including those not currently displayed on panel . In accordance with some embodiments selecting a thumbnail image or icon at a presenter client causes the network handler to send a corresponding navigation command to the presentation server B. The presentation server B in turn routes the command to each of the viewer clients participating the presentation. Such routing may be through other presentation servers . The navigation command may indicate the page slide or section corresponding to the thumbnail image or icon selected by the presenter.

The GUI also includes a table of contents graphical user interface control which if selected provides a pop up overlay or other graphical user interface panel presenting a table of contents for the content item. The table of contents may include one or more user selectable table of contents headings which if selected causes the presentation application to navigate the content item and display in the browser window the portion of the content item corresponding to the beginning of the selected section. In accordance with some embodiments selecting a table of contents heading at a presenter client causes the network handler to send a corresponding navigation command to the presentation server B. The presentation server B in turn routes the command to each of the viewer clients participating the presentation. Such routing may be through other presentation servers . The navigation command may indicate the section page slide or other content item portion identifier corresponding to the table of contents heading selected by the presenter.

The GUI also includes page slide section up down graphical user interface controls . GUI controls are an example of GUI controls for conducting relative navigation of a content item relative to the currently displayed portion of the content item. In particular the up arrow GUI control can be activated by the user to navigate to the previous page slide section relative to a current page slide section and the down arrow GUI control can be activated by the user to navigate to the next page slide section relative to the page page slide section. In accordance with some embodiments selecting the up arrow or down arrow of GUI controls at a presenter client causes the network handler to send a corresponding navigation command to the presentation server B. The presentation server B in turn routes the command to each of the viewer clients participating the presentation. Such routing may be through other presentation servers . The navigation command may indicate whether the up arrow or the down was selected or other information for navigating to the previous or next page slide section relative to a current page slide section.

The GUI also includes text input graphical user interface control for directly navigating to a specified page slide section entered into the control . In accordance with some embodiments entering a page slide section identifier e.g. a page slide section number into text controller at the presenter client causes the network handler to send a corresponding navigation command to the presentation server B. The presentation server B in turn routes the command to each of the viewer clients participating the presentation. Such routing may be through other presentation servers . The navigation command may indicate the identifier of the page slide section entered by the presenter.

The GUI also includes magnifying zoom in de magnifying zoom out graphical user interface controls . In particular the control labeled may be activated to magnify zoom in the currently displayed portion of the content item and the control labeled may be activated to de magnify zoom out currently displayed portion of the content item. De magnifying zooming out may also cause portions of the content item in addition to the currently displayed portion to be displayed in the browser window . In accordance with some embodiments selecting the control or the control of GUI controls at a presenter client causes the network handler to send a corresponding navigation command to the presentation server B. The presentation server B in turn routes the command to each of the viewer clients participating the presentation. Such routing may be through other presentation servers . The navigation command may indicate whether the magnify zoom in control or the de magnify zoom out control was selected by the presenter.

The GUI also includes scroll bar for scrolling forwards and backward through the content item. In accordance with some embodiments activating the content item scroll bar at a presenter client causes the network handler to send a corresponding navigation command to the presentation server B. The presentation server B in turn routes the command to each of the viewer clients participating the presentation. Such routing may be through other presentation servers . The navigation command may indicate the scroll bar was scrolled and indicate a scroll offset or other scrolling information that indicates the portion of the content item scrolled to by the presenter.

Browser window may also include an actionable download graphical user interface element e.g. a button that allows the user of participant client to download a copy of the content item being presented from a corresponding presentation server to the participant client . In some embodiments the ability to use the download element to download a copy of the content item is controlled by the presenter according to presentation settings. In a particular embodiment the presenter can constrain users of viewer clients participating in the presentation the ability to download the content item using the download element to one of the following times 

Presentation metadata is metadata for the presentation corresponding to the presentation record and identified by presentation identifier . In some embodiments as shown in presentation metadata for a presentation includes content item identifier which uniquely identifies the content item that is the subject of the presentation. Presentation metadata also includes start time data which indicates the scheduled date time the presentation begins and end time data which indicates the scheduled date time the presentation ends. In some embodiments the end time data is missing or empty or otherwise indicates that there is no schedule end data time for the presentation. Presentation metadata also includes download configuration which specifies when viewer participants can download if at all the content item identified by content item identifier from a respective presentation server . Presentation also includes one or more user navigation control statues which indicate for respective user navigation controls of the presentation application whether the respective user navigation control is enabled or disabled at the viewer clients during the presentation. In some embodiments by default all user navigation controls are disabled at viewer clients during the presentation. In these embodiments presentation metadata may include user navigation control statuses for only those user navigation controls that have been selectively enabled.

A user record may contain a presentation list . The presentation list includes a plurality of user presentation identifiers each such identifiers identifying a presentation in which the user is a participant.

A user record may also contain a content item list . The content item list includes a plurality of content item identifiers each such identifier identifying a content item stored in the content item database that is associated with the user of the user record . For example content item list may identify content items provided e.g. upload by the user and stored in content item database .

A content item may be stored in one or more data blocks identified by the data block list of the corresponding content item record . The data blocks may be distributed among one or more server computers and may in some cases be duplicated for redundancy and recovery purposes. Each data block is identified by a data block identifier . In some embodiments the data block identifier for a data block is generated by applying a hash function e.g. SHA 256 to the data block data of the data block . In some embodiments the data block data of a data block is up to at most 4 MB of the data of a respective content item.

The server provides the same content item for a presentation to all the participants in the presentation. In some embodiments the server e.g. content item converter formats the content item of the presentation to be compatible with a content type that the presentation application at each of the client devices associated with the participants in the presentation has been configured to receive and transmits the formatted content item to the client devices. In some embodiments the server e.g. content item converter formats the content item for a presentation by converting the content item from a first content item format to a different second content item format e.g. PDF format . In some embodiments the server also provides online presence information for each of the plurality of participants in the presentation to other participants in the presentation.

The server receives a navigation command from the presenter participant to navigate the content item in a particular manner and the navigation command is provided to each of the client devices associated with the viewer participants. In some embodiments the navigation command received from the presenter participant is processed by the navigation command router which determines the clients associated with the viewer participants to which the navigation command is transmitted. In some cases transmitting the navigation command to a particular client associated with a viewer participant includes transmitting the navigation command to another presentation server which then transmit the navigation command to the particular client .

In response to receiving the request to control the presentation of the content item from the presenter the server sends browser executable instructions implementing a presentation application to the client device of the presenter i.e. the client device from which the request to control the presentation was received. In some embodiments all user navigation controls e.g. user navigation controls of the presentation application are enabled in the browser executable instructions sent to the client device of the presenter.

Also in response to receiving the request to control the presentation of the content item from the presenter the server sends at least a portion of the content item being presented to the client device of the presenter. This sending may include formatting the portion of the content item sent according to operations and or of .

The server receives a navigation command from the presenter participant to navigate the content item in a particular manner and the navigation command is provided to each of the client devices associated with the viewer participants. The received navigation command may be processed by the navigation command router such as described above with respect to operation of .

In response to receiving the request to receive the presentation of the content item from the viewer the server sends browser executable instructions implementing a presentation application to the client device of the viewer i.e. the client device from which the request to receive the presentation was received. In some embodiments some or all user navigation controls e.g. user navigation controls of the presentation application are disabled in the browser executable instructions sent to the client device of the presenter. In some embodiments the sent browser executable instructions are configured to disable some or all user navigation controls at the scheduled start time of the presentation. Before then the user navigation controls may or may not be enabled according to default configuration or the preferences of the presenter of the content item.

Also in response to receiving the request from the viewer to receive the presentation of the content item the server sends at least a portion of the content item being presented to the client device of the viewer. This sending may include formatting the portion of the content item sent according to operations and or of .

The server receives a navigation command from the presenter of the presentation to navigate the content item in a particular manner and the navigation command is provided to each of the client devices associated with the viewer participants. The received navigation command may be processed by the navigation command router such as described above with respect to operation of .

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or solid state drive is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical disks magnetic disks or solid state drives such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable other skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the requirements of the particular implementation at hand or the particular use contemplated.

