---

title: Seismic interpretation system and method
abstract: The present disclosure describes a system, method and computer readable medium capable of identifying and filtering erroneous seismic data from the computer modeling process. A visual representation of seismic data pertaining to a subterranean formation may be generated and displayed upon a graphic user interface utilizing one or more color schemes. A filtering arrangement may be applied to the seismic data and the visual representation may be updated to include one or more indications illustrating seismic data that has been selected for filtering. The user may adjust filtering operations utilizing a computer generated selection tool. In one embodiment, the system provides a suggestion tool capable of alerting the user to potential seismic data filtering problems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09557432&OS=09557432&RS=09557432
owner: SCHLUMBERGER TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
number: 09557432
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130309
---
This patent application claims priority upon and incorporates by reference herein a provisional patent application entitled Interactive Horizon Interpretation Filtering System and Method filed on Mar. 9 2012 Ser. No. 61 608 863.

Computer modeling and simulation of seismic interpretation data is a vital component of oil and gas exploration. Such systems might conduct some form of computational processing upon acquired seismic data and then export the processed data to one or more data visualization application s for review by authorized personnel. Such systems may also use a color mapping structure to generate graphic visualizations of acquired data to assist users in interpreting and or analyzing the acquired data.

Seismic interpretation data may vary in quality continuity and completeness due to varying vintages of seismic data and or due to the fact that multiple interpretations of the seismic data have been applied during the imaging process. For example data quality may vary where a fault intersects a horizon in the formation due to poor resolution of seismic data around fault locations in the formation.

There remains a need for a filtering arrangement capable of identifying and filtering erroneous seismic interpretation data from the modeling process so as to prevent processing errors.

Accordingly the present disclosure describes a system method and computer readable medium capable of identifying and filtering erroneous seismic interpretation data from the computer modeling process so as to prevent processing errors.

In one embodiment seismic interpretation data pertaining to a subterranean formation may be received and stored to a computer readable storage medium. A visual representation of the processed seismic interpretation data may be generated and displayed upon a graphic user interface utilizing one or more color schemes. The visual representation may include one or more features of the formation such as horizons and faults contained therein.

In one embodiment a software generated filtering arrangement capable of filtering out erroneous data from the model may be generated and applied to the seismic interpretation data such that the filtered data is ignored going forward. In one embodiment the filter may be applied to each individual piece of seismic data using a boolean expression.

The system method and computer readable medium described herein provides various options through which the user may generate control and adjust the filter or filtering arrangement. Specifically the user may decide how to apply the filter as well as the values that the filter will use via one or more settings screens. In one embodiment the user may select whether to apply a filter to the entire formation to one or more horizons in the formation or to one or more faults in the formation.

In one embodiment selecting a filter will activate the filter and generate a seismic interpretation data representation to show the effect of the selected filter on the seismic interpretation data. In one embodiment the system provides at least one computer generated selection tool through which the user may select unselect seismic data for filtering.

In one embodiment the selection tool may provide a substantially rectangular outline for 2D displays or a substantially cubic outline for 3D and 4D displays superimposed upon or embedded into the seismic interpretation data. The user may utilize the selection tool to filter erroneous seismic interpretation data by moving the selection tool to encompass the erroneous data and activating the filter using a mouse or other input device.

In one embodiment updated seismic data representation s may be provided to the user delayed or in real time as he or she selects seismic interpretation data for filtering. The updated representation may include one or more indications illustrating seismic interpretation data that has been selected for filtering. In one embodiment a visual and or auditory indication may be utilized to indicate that the selected data has been selected for filtering. This feature allows the user to see how the seismic interpretation data will be affected by the filtering operation in context with the identified features of the formation prior to the application of the filter. Further it allows the user to amend and or adjust his or her filtering selections before the selected data is ignored during subsequent processing.

In one embodiment the filter may be restricted to seismic interpretation data positioned adjacent to one or more identified faults in the subterranean formation. In one embodiment the user may enter a distance value for all or some of the faults in the formation so that the filter will be applied only to seismic data residing within the specified distance from the fault.

In one embodiment the system may provide data entry fields for the user to enter filtering values separately for each side of a fault. Further the selection tool allows the user to apply a non linear filtering arrangement to one or both sides of a fault such that the filtering value for the fault varies depending on the seismic data s position along the length of the fault.

In one embodiment the system provides a suggestion tool capable of alerting the user if a potential filtering problem exists i.e. where too much or too little data is being filtered and or recommending a filter size for one or more faults given the fault s size and location relative to other faults in the formation.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described herein. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In the following description numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without these details and that numerous variations or modifications from the described embodiments may be possible.

The present disclosure describes embodiments of a method of modeling a subterranean formation a computer readable medium for modeling a subterranean formation and a computer modeling system. Seismic data pertaining to a subterranean formation may be received and stored as illustrated by Box of . Such data may be received directly from oilfield sensing equipment or via a database containing seismic data. In certain embodiments such data may be received from a computer readable storage medium not shown .

In one embodiment seismic data may be processed and presented to the user via a graphic user interface . This may be accomplished by generating a visual representation of the processed seismic data as illustrated by Box . In one embodiment features of the subterranean formation may be identified and included in the representation as illustrated by Box . For example horizons in the formation i.e. horizontal or sub horizontal layers of rock may be identified by one or more sets of seismic reflectors in lateral succession having similar amplitude values. Faults in the formation i.e. vertical or sub vertical breaks in the formation across which there is an observable displacement may be identified by gaps or disconnections in the seismic reflectors.

In one embodiment a data visualization application capable of accessing processing and displaying acquired seismic data upon one or more graphic user interfaces may be utilized. The data visualization application may be a stand alone application such as the Petrel system offered by Schlumberger or a proprietary data visualization package.

In one embodiment the seismic data may be displayed to the user using a two three or four dimensional arrangement. In one embodiment a two dimensional arrangement may include x and y axis components a three dimensional arrangement may include x y and z components and a four dimensional arrangement may include x y z components along with a time component. Seismic data may be represented utilizing any number of conventions. For example various color schemes may be utilized to convey the characteristics of the displayed seismic data.

As noted above geological modeling involves a great deal of data quality assessment. Seismic data may vary in quality continuity and completeness due to varying vintages of seismic data and or due to the fact that multiple interpretations of the seismic data have been applied during the imaging process. For example data quality may vary where a fault intersects a horizon in the formation due to poor resolution of seismic data around fault locations in the formation. Erroneous seismic interpretation data may be identified and removed from the modeling process so as to prevent processing errors.

In one embodiment a software generated filtering arrangement capable of filtering out erroneous data from the model may be generated and applied to the seismic interpretation data as illustrated by Boxes and of . In one embodiment filtered data may be ignored during subsequent modeling operations.

In one embodiment the filter may be applied to each individual piece of seismic interpretation data using a boolean expression such that the value of the boolean expression associated with the piece of seismic interpretation data indicates whether at least a portion of seismic interpretation data will be subjected to the filter. Boolean expression values attributes may be true false zero one yes no or any other suitable convention capable of indicating whether a piece of data will be subjected to the filter. Boolean expression values may be associated with and or stored with individual pieces of seismic interpretation data or as part of a seismic project so that the filter travels with the model if it is transferred and or stored upon another database or computer readable storage medium.

The system method and computer readable medium described herein provides various options through which the user may generate control and adjust the filter or filtering arrangement. Specifically the user may decide how to apply the filter as well as the values that the filter will use. In one embodiment the user may select whether to apply a filter to the entire formation to one or more horizons in the formation or to one or more faults in the formation. This may be accomplished by clicking on the representation of a particular horizon or fault to bring up a settings menu.

In the example of a drop down menu is provided where the user may select from a plurality of filter arrangements. In this example the user may select from a 50 meter default filtering arrangement entitled 50 m a custom filtering arrangement entitled Truelove or a custom filtering arrangement entitled Beardsell. In one embodiment selecting a filter will activate the corresponding filter and generate a seismic data representation to show the effect of the selected filter on the seismic data.

In one embodiment the system provides at least one computer generated selection tool through which the user may select seismic data for filtering. In one embodiment the selection tool comprises a substantially rectangular outline e.g. for 2D displays or a substantially cubic outline for 3D and or 4D displays superimposed upon or embedded into displayed seismic data.

In the example of the system provides a graphic selection tool superimposed upon the displayed seismic interpretation data such that the user may select seismic data of interest. As noted above the user has chosen to look at horizon of subterranean formation in this example. In one embodiment the selection tool may be resized or moved in any direction by the user using a mouse keyboard or other desired input device as illustrated by arrows . Further multiple selection tools or cubes in this example may be utilized such that the user may select at least a portion of seismic interpretation data or multiple portions of seismic interpretation data.

In one embodiment the selection tool may include interactive features such as a snap to grid feature wherein the outer limits of the selection tool automatically conform to the grid utilized by the data visualization application. In one embodiment the selection tool may also provide a conforming feature wherein the outer limits of the selection tool may conform to features of the displayed seismic data such as along seismic trace lines fault boundaries etc. In one embodiment the conforming feature may also be utilized to conform to seismic data trends such as areas of displayed data trending from lower to higher amplitude values depth values etc.

The filter may be activated according to any number of conventions. In one embodiment the user may left click the mouse to apply an already active pre existing filter to the data selected by the selection tool right click the mouse to bring up a settings menu and or various settings screens to create a new filter and or select from a menu of pre existing filters to apply to the data as discussed further above.

In one embodiment updated seismic data representation s may be provided to the user delayed or in real time as he or she selects seismic interpretation data for filtering. The updated representation may include one or more indications illustrating seismic interpretation data that has been selected for filtering as illustrated by Box of . In one embodiment a visual and or auditory indication may be utilized to indicate that the selected data has been selected for filtering. For example a color change and or auditory alert may be utilized to convey that one or more pieces of seismic data will be subjected to the filter as per user inputs and thus will be ignored during subsequent processing.

In one embodiment the indication s may include changes to the display color of the selected seismic interpretation data such as the use of a red color scheme to indicate that seismic interpretation data has been selected for filtering. This feature allows the user to see how the seismic data will be affected by the filtering operation in context with the identified features of the formation prior to the application of the filter. Further it allows the user to amend and or adjust his or her filtering selections before the selected data is ignored during subsequent processing as illustrated by Box of .

In one embodiment data that has not been selected for filtering may maintain its original color scheme. For example unfiltered data may be given a blue or a green color scheme. Further data that has been selected for filtering and then deselected by the user may have its color scheme changed from a red color scheme to an orange or a yellow color scheme. In this example the change from blue green unfiltered to red selected for filtering to yellow orange deselected for filtering conveys the state of the seismic data in an efficient manner.

In one embodiment the filter may be restricted to seismic data positioned adjacent to one or more identified faults in the subterranean formation. As noted above data quality issues may be a problem where one or more faults intersect the horizon. In one embodiment the user may enter a distance value for some or all of the faults in the formation so that the filter will be applied only to seismic data residing within the specified distance from the fault s . This may be accomplished via one or more settings screens as described above.

For example if the user sets a specified distance and or of 50 meters from either side of fault any seismic data residing within 50 meters of either side of fault where it intersects with horizon will be subjected to the filter. illustrates areas where the filter would be applied utilizing a 50 meter filter value to each side of fault . In one embodiment the system may provide data entry fields for the user to enter filtering values separately for each side of one or more faults. That is the user may enter one distance value to a first side of the fault and another value for the second side of the fault so that the filtering is varied depending on which side of the fault is at issue.

In some instances the selection tool may not be the ideal starting point for filtering seismic interpretation data pertaining to a subterranean formation. This may be the case for complicated subterranean formations having a significant number of faults i.e. such that it may be impractical for the user to manually select all data that will be subjected to filtering. However applying a static filtering arrangement to a complicated formation may result in a condition where too much or too little data is subjected to the filter. For example consider a situation where there are a number of faults in a formation and the faults are of varying lengths and or overlap with each other.

The use of a static filtering value for multiple faults such as the 50 meter distance example provided above may cause an overlap situation where too much seismic data is removed between faults. illustrates an example situation where a 50 meter filtering value is utilized in connection with faults and resulting in the filtering of data within areas and . illustrates a 50 meter filtering distance value for fault in this example.

Due to the size of the example filtering value and the distance between example faults and one can see that an entire section of seismic data between the faults will be removed due to the filtering operation. This is an example situation where too much data may be removed due to the use of a static filtering arrangement.

However in one embodiment the selection tool provides a convenient solution to this problem. In this example the user can bring up the selection tool move the tool so that it encompasses some or all of the data in section and reverse the filtering operation for one or more desired seismic interpretation data points. This may be accomplished using a single mouse click to deactivate the filter for selected seismic interpretation data points by right clicking to access a drop down menu and or settings menu where a filtering option may be unselected etc.

In this example the user may utilize a default filtering arrangement and then tailor the filter to his or her preference using the selection tool to select and deselect seismic interpretation data to be filtered. The use of the selection tool in this example also allows the user to apply a non linear filtering arrangement to one or both sides of fault s and such that the filtering value for the fault varies depending on the seismic data s position along the length of the fault.

In one embodiment the filtering areas illustrated by the system after a filtering arrangement has been applied such as areas and or in the example of may be manually adjusted by the user to increase or decrease the number of seismic interpretation data points that will be filtered. Specifically the user may click upon a portion of any of the displayed boundary lines illustrated as and in this example and manually adjust the area of seismic data encompassed by the boundary and thus the filtering by moving the position of the boundary line.

In one embodiment moving a displayed boundary line causes the system to change the filtering attribute and the displayed color scheme for any seismic data points affected by movement of the boundary. This feature of the system allows the user to apply a non linear filtering arrangement to individual faults such that the filtering values for the fault may be different depending on the seismic data s position along the length of the fault.

In one embodiment the system provides a suggestion tool capable of alerting the user if a potential filtering problem exists i.e. where too much or too little data may be filtered and or recommending a filter size for each fault given the fault s location and distances relative to other faults. In one embodiment this may be accomplished by calculating a minimum and or a maximum distance between each fault or selected faults in the formation. For example if the filter value is greater than the maximum distance between two faults an alert to the user and or a recommendation of a filter value smaller than the maximum distance may be provided.

In one embodiment the system may calculate the number of seismic interpretation data points positioned between any two faults in the formation and provide an alert and or filter value recommendation if the number or percentage of data points to be filtered between any two faults is less than or greater than a threshold number or percentage. The threshold number or percentage value may be pre programmed or entered by the user using the settings menu and or one or more settings screens.

The system may be utilized in conjunction with any suitable visualization package and the use of complimentary and or supplementary filtering arrangements described herein is not limited to use with the example data or example data visualization packages. Further the invention may be used at any phase of an oilfield operation including but not limited to during the interpretation of seismic data during modeling of formational characteristics or reservoir properties including surface modeling and or during operational monitoring and analysis activities.

The methods described herein may be implemented on any suitable computer system capable of processing electronic data. illustrates one possible configuration of a computer system that may be utilized. Computer system s such as the example system of may run programs containing instructions that when executed perform methods according to the principles described herein. Furthermore the methods described herein may be fully automated and able to operate continuously as desired.

The computer system may utilize one or more central processing units memory communications or I O modules graphics devices a floating point accelerator and mass storage devices such as tapes and discs . Storage device may include a floppy drive hard drive CD ROM optical drive or any other form of storage device. In addition the storage devices may be capable of receiving a floppy disk CD ROM DVD ROM disk flash drive or any other form of computer readable medium that may contain computer executable instructions. Further communication device may be a modem network card or any other device to enable communication to receive and or transmit data. It should be understood that the computer system may include a plurality of interconnected whether by intranet or Internet computer systems including without limitation personal computers mainframes PDAs cell phones and the like.

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies.

In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The computer system may include hardware capable of executing machine readable instructions as well as the software for executing acts that produce a desired result. In addition computer system may include hybrids of hardware and software as well as computer sub systems.

Hardware may include at least processor capable platforms such as client machines also known as personal computers or servers and hand held processing devices such as smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs or personal computing devices PCDs for example . Further hardware may include any physical device that is capable of storing machine readable instructions such as memory or other data storage devices. Other forms of hardware include hardware sub systems including transfer devices such as modems modem cards ports and port cards for example.

Software includes any machine code stored in any memory medium such as RAM or ROM and machine code stored on other devices such as floppy disks flash memory or a CD ROM for example . Software may include source or object code for example. In addition software encompasses any set of instructions capable of being executed in a client machine or server.

A database may be any standard or proprietary database software such as Oracle Microsoft Access SyBase or DBase II for example. The database may have fields records data and other database elements that may be associated through database specific software. Additionally data may be mapped. Mapping is the process of associating one data entry with another data entry. For example the data contained in the location of a character file can be mapped to a field in a second table. The physical location of the database is not limiting and the database may be distributed. For example the database may exist remotely from the server and run on a separate platform.

Further the computer system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers. The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . The remote computers may each include one or more application programs.

When using a LAN networking environment the computer system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer system may include a modem wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device.

Although the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments this description is not meant to be construed in a limited sense. Various modifications of the disclosed embodiments as well as alternative embodiments of the invention will become apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description of the invention. It is therefore contemplated that the appended claims will cover such modifications that fall within the scope of the invention.

