---

title: Multi-tenant message routing and management
abstract: A system and method are provided for a routing system that enables a tenant service provider to send events to users, using applications, on one or more devices. Events may include be any message or data intended to be sent to one or more users. Specifically, a tenant service provider may send events to users on various devices without the tenant service provider being aware of the device, or type of device, that the user is using. The tenant service provider need not have any knowledge of the specific users that may receive the events sent by the tenant service provider. Thus, a tenant service provider may disseminate events to users on various devices by sending a single message to a routing service. The routing service may then distribute the event to each of the devices and each of the applications each user has selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392422&OS=09392422&RS=09392422
owner: Apollo Education Group, Inc.
number: 09392422
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20130506
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of application 61 802 021 filed Mar. 15 2013 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention generally relates to message routing and more specifically to multi tenant message routing and management.

Routing services forward messages from a content provider to a particular device. For example a content provider may send a request which includes a message and identifies a particular device to a routing service. In response to receiving the request from the content provider the routing service may forward the message to the particular device.

Unfortunately to use this technique content providers must keep track of the devices to which the content provider wishes to send messages. Content providers must also update all information related to each device to which the content provider wishes to send a message. For example a content provider may develop a publish subscribe system that receives subscription requests from users. If an error arises while a user attempts to subscribe to receive messages from the content provider the content provider may be unable to provide the necessary information to the routing service to send the user messages. Furthermore the publish subscribe system may receive unsubscribe requests from users to stop receiving messages. If an error arises while a user requests to stop receiving messages from the content provider then the content provider may continue to send messages to the user.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

A routing system is provided that enables a tenant service provider to send events to users using applications on one or more devices. Events may include any message or data intended to be sent to one or more users. Specifically a tenant service provider may send events to users on various devices without the tenant service provider being aware of the device or type of device that the user is using. Furthermore the tenant service provider need not have any knowledge of the specific users or devices that may receive the events sent by the tenant service provider.

A tenant service provider may be a business or other entity that provides data to users on a variety of devices. For example a tenant service provider may be a school. The school may wish to provide its students with various messages or data such as alerts when grades are released or emergencies.

A tenant service provider may disseminate events to users on various devices by sending a single message to a routing service. An event may identify one or more applications to send the event to but need not include any information identifying particular users or devices. The routing service based at least in part on the one or more applications identified may first determine which users on which devices through which of the one or more applications have opted to receive the types of events being sent by the tenant service provider. The routing service may then distribute the event to each of the users on each of the devices through each of the one or more applications identified by the event and which the user has selected.

Users may choose the applications and devices through which they intend to receive particular types of events by sending preference data comprising particular identifiers to the routing service. The identifiers may include one or more intent data objects a user identifier a device identifier and an application identifier. An intent data object identifies the type of events the user wishes to receive. For example a student may send the routing service an intent data object a user identifier a device identifier and an application identifier indicating that she would like to receive events regarding school activities on her cell phone via a particular mobile application.

A routing service receives an event from a tenant service provider and disseminates the event to one or more users through one or more applications running on one or more devices. For example a routing service may receive an event from a tenant service provider with a particular intent data object and a payload. The particular intent data object may identify the type of event e.g. campus alerts. The routing service may forward the event to all users that have requested to receive events with the particular intent data object through the applications and devices selected by each user. The payload can be any data e.g. a short message stating that campus will be closed for a particular holiday.

Routing service is communicatively coupled with tenant service providers and may receive events from tenant service providers . For example tenant service provider may be a college. The college may send routing service events through an application programming interface to routing service . Or routing service may include a front end interface e.g. a web page for persons representing the school e.g. a school administrator to send events.

Routing service is communicatively coupled with client devices . Client devices may be any device running one or more applications that a user may receive events through. For example client device may be a mobile phone client device may be a desktop computer and client device may be a tablet.

Routing service is also communicatively coupled to applications through client devices . For example application may be a mobile application running on client device . Application may be communicatively coupled to routing service through client device via a wireless internet service provider. Also for example application may be a desktop application running client device . Application may be communicatively coupled to routing service through a wide area network or the Internet.

Applications may be created by either a tenant service provider or another developer. For example application may be an educational application created by tenant service provider a college to alert students to particularly important dates. Also for example application may be a sports application created by a sports news company that aggregates sports scores and alerts from many different clubs and organizations like the college.

Applications may have one or more users. Each application of applications may send preference data to routing service for each user using the application. For example application may have a first user that logs in to application with a first user identifier. Application may also have a second user that logs into application with a second user identifier. Application may send preference data on behalf of the first user indicating which types of events the first user would like to receive through application on client device . Application may also send preference data on behalf of the second user indicating which types of events the second user would like to receive through application on client device .

Likewise each application of applications may receive events from routing service for each of the application s users. For example if the first user based on the preference data sent on behalf of the first user to routing service opted to receive events regarding a particular event type then routing service may send an event of that type to application for the first user. Furthermore if the second user based on the preference data sent on behalf of the second user to routing service opted to receive events regarding the same particular event type then the routing service may send the same event to application for the second user.

Furthermore the protocols used by applications and devices may vary from application to application and from device to device. Tenant service providers need not retain any particular information regarding which devices will receive an event or the correct protocol to use. For example suppose client device is a mobile phone which receives alerts through a push notification system and client device is a desktop computer and may receive alerts through using a hypertext transfer protocol or another web service. Upon receiving an event from tenant service provider routing service sends the event to each device and application through the correct protocol defined by each receiving application and or device. Routing service may determine which protocol to use for each application and or device based at least in part on the preference data which includes an application identifier and a device identifier.

The routing service determines which events to send to which users applications and devices based at least in part on the preference data stored at the routing service. A preference record may include but is in no way limited to one or more intent data objects a user identifier an application identifier and a device identifier. The routing service may disseminate events received based at least in part on the user identifier application identifier and device identifier in each preference record.

Preference data may be stored in a repository. In an embodiment the repository may be table in a database. Alternatively the repository may include a relational database flat file no SQL database or any other system to store information.

Intent data objects identify one or more types of events a user wants to receive. For example one intent data object may indicate that the user wants to be notified when messages are posted for an online Spanish course. Another intent data object may indicate that the user wants to be notified when grades are posted for an online Math course.

Intent data objects may identify a type of event using a number string hash JavaScript object notation object or any other identifier. For example assume that the intent data objects in preference record include an intent data object that specifies 100 . The intent object that specifies 100 indicates that the user associated with preference record is to receive events associated with the identifier 100 . Similarly if intent data objects specify 100 200 then the user is to receive all events that associated with either the identifier 100 or the identifier 200 .

Storing the intent data objects as strings may be helpful in boosting the efficiency of the routing service. Since the routing service may forward a single event to multiple users devices and applications the throughput of the routing service may improve by efficiently querying the preference records for matching intent data objects when an event is received.

Furthermore new intent data objects may be created on the fly and need not be known by the routing service beforehand. Thus a tenant service provider and an application need not register or alert the routing service before the tenant service provider and an application begin or stop using one or more particular intent data objects. For example a tenant service provider may publish a new list of intent data objects along with definitions for each intent data object published. A user may submit preference data with a particular intent data object that was published by the tenant service provider but that has not been registered or stored with the routing service beforehand. Subsequently the routing service may receive an event with the particular intent data object. In response to receiving the event with the particular intent data object the routing service may query for preference records that include the particular intent data object. The routing service may forward the event to each user application and device for each preference record found with the particular intent data object.

Application identifier is an identifier that identifies the application through which a user wishes to receive particular types of events. Application identifier may be hardcoded into an application or may be located in memory or storage on the device the application is running on.

All versions of the same application may have the same application identifier. For example before an application is released it is provisioned and assigned a unique application identifier. As new versions of the application are released the application identifier for the application may remain constant. Alternatively each version of an application may have a different application identifier. For example a version of an application written for mobile phones may have a different application identifier than the desktop computer version of the same application. Furthermore the application identifier may change between versions of the application written for the same platform. For example the first version of an application released for mobile devices may be assigned a first application identifier but a subsequent second version of the application for the same mobile device may have a different second application identifier.

An application identifier may be assigned to an application through provisioning. For example a tenant service provider or a software vendor may request to receive an application identifier from the routing service before the application is released. Alternatively an application may be provisioned after it is released. For example after its release the application may be provisioned and the assigned application identifier may be disseminated to copies of the application already distributed. Provisioning may be an offline process or may be an automated service.

User identifier may by an email address a user name or any other identifier that an application may use to identify a user. The routing service may determine the appropriate protocol and service to use to disseminate events to each application. If a user identifier is unique for each application identifier each user using the application with application identifier may receive a separate copy of an event. For example suppose two preference records each include the same device identifier the same application identifier APP0001 and the same intent data object 100 . Also assume that the first record includes a user identifier set to 1 . Furthermore assume that the second record includes a user identifier set to 2 . Upon receiving an event with an intent data object 100 the routing service may send the event to the same application twice once for the first user and once for the second user.

The tenant service provider need not be aware the particular users that will receive an event. Furthermore the tenant provider may not have any records of which users are receiving which messages. Thus the routing service insulates the tenant service provider from the details of sending events to particular users allowing the tenant service provider to focus on developing the event data application or other resources instead of getting bogged down in determining and tracking which users are receiving which events.

Additionally or alternatively a user identifier may not be defined indicating that any event targeting a particular application may be sent to any user using the particular application. For example an eBook reader application may not define user identifier and thus any user of the eBook reader application may receive an event that is targeted to the eBook reader application.

Device identifier identifies a device. Device identifier may use any type of information to identify a device including but not limited to the type of device brand generic name serial number etc. Based on the device identifier the routing service may determine the appropriate protocol and service to use to disseminate events to each application running on each device. For example suppose two preference records each include the same application identifier APP0001 and the same intent data object 100 . Also assume that the first record includes a device identifier set to 1 . Furthermore assume that the second record includes a device identifier set to 2 . Upon receiving an event with an intent data object 100 and application identifier APP0001 the routing service may send the event to both of the devices using the appropriate protocol for each application identifier and or device identifier.

The tenant service provider need not be aware the particular devices that will receive an event. Furthermore the tenant provider may not have any records of which devices are receiving which messages. Thus the routing service insulates the tenant service provider from the details of sending events to particular devices allowing the tenant service provider to focus on developing the event data application or other resources instead of getting bogged down in determining and tracking which devices are receiving which events. Furthermore the tenant service provider does not need to keep track of protocols necessary to disseminate the events to each of the applications running on each device because the routing service may send all of the messages to the appropriate devices through the appropriate protocols.

Conditions specify particular conditions under which users applications or devices may receive particular types of events. For example assume a user has a sports application for receiving and displaying sports scores. Further assume that the sports application runs on the user s mobile phone. The user may submit preference data that includes an intent data object corresponding to events relating to sport scores a user identifier identifying the user an application identifier identifying the sports application and a device identifier identifying the mobile phone. The preference data may also include a condition that indicates to the routing service not to send events to the user through the sports application running on the mobile phone during particular times of the day.

The routing service receives events from tenant service providers and forwards the events to one or more users on one or more devices through one or more applications. The routing service may determine which events to send to which users based at least in part on the data included in each event. illustrates an event according to an embodiment. While illustrates an embodiment for purposes of illustrating clear example other embodiments may omit add to reorder and or modify any of the features shown. Event includes intent data objects tenant identifier application identifiers and payload . Unlike preference record illustrated in event does not include a device identifier. Thus a tenant service provider need not have any information regarding the users or devices an event will be sent to. However the routing service may be aware of the users and devices and which protocols and services to use to send messages to each device.

Just as intent data objects indicate the type of content users want to receive intent data objects are also used to indicate the type of content tenant service providers are providing. Specifically intent data objects allow tenant service providers to categorize events into various types of events in order to provide users with a customized experience. For example assume that a tenant service provider is a school that distributes an application to students where the application is capable of receiving updates on school sports social events emergencies or general notices. Further assume the intent data objects for those types of events are 1001 1002 1003 and 1004 respectively. The routing service upon receiving event with intent data objects set to 1001 1002 may query the preference data repository for all user application and device combinations that have chosen to receive events with intent data objects set to 1001 or 1002 . Intent data objects need not be numeric. An intent data object may be any format as discussed above with respect to intent data objects .

Tenant service providers may use wildcards in place of intent data objects to indicate that the routing device should not use any particular intent data object to determine which users applications or devices to forward an event to. A wildcard may be denoted by a particular string e.g. or wildcard . For example the routing service upon receiving event with intent data objects set to need not filter records in the preference data repository based on any particular intent data object. Alternatively a wildcard may be denoted by failing to include intent data objects or leaving intent data objects blank.

Tenant identifier generally represents an identifier that identifies a particular tenant service provider. A tenant identifier may be assigned to a tenant service provider through provisioning. For example a tenant service provider may request to receive a tenant identifier from the routing service. The routing service may provision the tenant service provider by assigning the tenant service provider a tenant identifier. Provisioning a tenant service provider may be an offline process or may be an automated service.

The routing service may require a tenant service provider to be provisioned and to supply a valid tenant identifier before the routing service forwards any events received by the tenant service provider. For example assume the routing service receives event which includes tenant identifier . Also assume that tenant identifier is set to a string that has not been assigned to any tenant service provider. The routing service may ignore event since tenant identifier does not include a tenant identifier that was assigned to a provisioned tenant service provider.

Application identifiers may include one or more identifiers that identify one or more applications that event should be sent to. For example assume that a routing service receives event with application identifiers set to APP0001 APP0002 . The routing service may query the preference data repository for applications with one of the application identifiers APP0001 APP0002 .

A routing service may also use application identifiers as a security measure. For example a routing service may store data that indicates the applications to which each tenant may send messages. Based on that data the routing service may ignore an event received from a tenant service provider that is not authorized to send events to the applications identified by application identifiers .

The routing service may authorize one or more tenant service providers to send events to an application as part of the application provisioning process. For example when an application is provisioned as previously discussed particular tenant identifiers may be associated with the application.

The tenant service providers associated with an application may be authorized to send events to the application. The routing service may ignore events received from tenant service providers that are not associated with the application. For example assume that a particular school distributes an application to alert its students when grades are released. Also assume that a routing service provisions the school and the application assigning the school a tenant identifier and the application an application identifier. Further assume that the routing service associates the tenant identifier with the application identifier. Further still assume that the routing service receives event which includes tenant identifier and application identifiers which identify the school and the application respectively. Upon determining that the tenant identifier is associated with the application identifier the routing service may continue to process and disseminate the event accordingly. Otherwise the routing service may ignore the event.

If an event from a tenant service includes multiple application identifiers not all of which are associated with the tenant identifier then the routing service need not disseminate the event to the applications not associated with the tenant identifier . Using the previous example assume that application identifiers also include a second application identifier that is not associated with the school s tenant identifier. The routing service may ignore the second application identifier and proceed to process the event as if application identifiers only included the first application identifier which is associated with the school s tenant identifier. Alternatively the routing service may ignore the entire event if at least one of the application identifiers included in application identifiers is not associated with the school s tenant identifier.

A tenant service provider may be associated with more than one application and an application may be associated with more than one tenant service provider. illustrates associations between applications and tenant service providers according to an embodiment. While illustrates an embodiment for purposes of illustrating clear example other embodiments may omit add to reorder and or modify any of the features shown. For purposes of illustrating a clear example may be described with reference to but using the particular arrangement of is not required in other embodiments. In tenant service provider is associated with both application and application and tenant service provider is associated with application and application . Thus routing service upon receiving an event from tenant service provider may forward the event to either application or application . Likewise routing service upon receiving an event from tenant service provider may forward the event to either application or application . Notice in this example that application is associated with both tenant service provider and tenant service provider . Accordingly either tenant service provider or tenant service provider may send events to application . For example if routing service receives event wherein tenant identifier contains the tenant identifier for tenant service provider then routing service may forward to users using either application or application .

Wildcards may be used to indicate that the routing device should forward the event to all applications associated with tenant identifier . A wildcard may be denoted by a particular string e.g. or wildcard . For example the routing service upon receiving event with application identifiers set to need not filter records in the preference data repository based on any particular application identifier. Alternatively a wildcard may be denoted by failing to include application identifiers or leaving application identifiers blank.

In an embodiment the routing service may send events to one or more applications regardless of the tenant service provider. For example when a routing service provisions a particular application the routing service need not associate the application identifier assigned the particular application to a tenant identifier assigned to a particular tenant service provider. Thus in response to receiving an event wherein application identifiers includes the application identifier assigned to the particular application the routing service need not determine whether tenant identifier is associated with application identifiers before forwarding event .

Payload may be any amount of data in any format. For example payload may be a text string Grades are out Also for example payload may be an image. Further for example the payload may be a combination of various data including images text videos audio files data records web pages and or links to web pages. Payload may also be in a proprietary format.

Additionally or alternatively the payload may also include one or more instructions or identifiers. For example a payload containing the following string c123445 Grade posted for Class A may instruct a receiving application to fetch more details for event using the identifier c123445 .

In one embodiment when the routing service receives an event from a tenant service provider the routing service determines to whom to send the event on which devices through which applications. The determination of to whom to send the event may be based on whether 

For the matching data preference records the routing service determines whether all conditions in the matching data preference records are satisfied. A matching preference record whose conditions are satisfied is referred to herein as a recipient preference record .

From the recipient preference records the unique user identifier device identifier and application identifier combinations are retrieved. The unique user identifier device identifier and application identifier combination specified in a recipient data preference record is referred to herein as the recipient identifier . The routing service then forwards the event to each recipient identifier.

The following are some examples of the various results that can occur when the routing service forwards an event to each recipient identifier 

As mentioned above the routing service filters the matching preference records based on the conditions in each preference record if any. For example a preference record may indicate that an event should not be forwarded to a particular user identifier device identifier and application identifier combination between 10 00 PM and 8 00 AM the following day.

In the case where the routing service performs condition filtering before performing the matching operation the routing service need not retrieve the record from the repository if an event is received at 11 00 PM. In the case where the routing service performs condition filtering after the matching operation the routing service may retrieve the record from the repository but does not forward the event to the user device and application specified in the record.

The routing service may restrict duplicate events from being sent to the same recipient identifier. The routing service may also restrict duplicate preference records from being stored with the same user device application combination. If the routing service receives a new preference data with the same user device application combination as an existing record then the routing service may update the existing preference record rather than store a new record. For example the update may change the intent data objects stored in the record or the conditions. Alternatively each preference record may have a unique user identifier device identifier application identifier and intent data object combination.

In Routing service is a routing service as discussed above. Routing service receives preference information and stores the preference information in a repository to be queried. As explained above routing service may receive events from tenant service providers and send events to users through one or more applications on a device. The events need not identify users or devices 

Application is a client application. Application is executed on a particular device controlled by a user. For example application may be an application on running on a mobile phone. Application may submit preference data to routing service . Application may receive events from routing service .

Tenant service provider is a tenant service provider that sends events to clients such as application through routing service .

In the embodiment illustrated in routing service has already provisioned both tenant service provider and application . Accordingly routing service has assigned an application identifier to application which in this example will be 111 . Routing service has assigned a tenant identifier to tenant service provider which in the example will be 555 . Furthermore routing service has associated application identifier 111 with tenant identifier 555 for the tenant service provider to indicate that tenant service provider is authorized to send events to application .

In step Routing service receives from application preference data. For example routing service may receive from application a user identifier that identifies a user an application identifier that identifies provisioned application and a device identifier that identifies device that application is running on. Furthermore the preference data includes an intent data object which in this example is 999 .

In step Routing service stores the preference data as a preference record in a preference data repository. The preference data repository may be stored locally to or remotely from routing service .

In step Routing service receives an event from tenant service provider . The event includes the tenant identifier 555 the application identifier 111 the intent data object 999 and a payload. The payload in this example is some text Grades are out 

In step Routing service first determines whether or not tenant service provider is authorized to send events to applications with application identifier 111 . Since the tenant identifier 555 is associated with application identifier 111 routing service determines that tenant service provider is authorized to send events to applications identified as 111 . Next routing service queries the repository to find all unique combinations of users applications and devices wherein the application identifier is 111 and wherein the intent data objects include 999 . Accordingly the preference record stored in response to receiving the preference data from application in step is retrieved since the application has the application identifier 111 .

In an embodiment wherein one or more of the matching preference records include conditions routing service may also determine whether the conditions are satisfied. The matching preference records that include conditions that are not satisfied are filtered out leaving only those matching preference records that a specify no conditions or b specify conditions that are satisfied.

In step Routing service forwards the event received from tenant service provider in step to the recipient identifiers which in the present example would cause the event to be sent to application . Accordingly application may display the payload Grades are out to the user identified in the preference record using application .

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

